ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, health ministers, social and child - care ministers, and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u2	A respectable president. In the last year, we were standing here in responsibly asking the government to take a big step right away in the interests of companies and homes, and now we are facing 12% unemployment. The National Bank Analysis Department says, by permission of the President: ▪... repeatedly the government's declaration of big official investments, especially in the interior, has not been able to resist, and it is not unlikely that a large wave of public investments might be involved at the same time as a public investment takes over. It's an old-fashioned, tense cocktail that the government actually offers, not to react immediately. Let us not forget that we are a nation of 360 thousand people, not a nation of 360 million people, who should have been able to act quickly and take those big steps right away. It has been emphasized that the infrastructure has not been successful. Then there's the other thing I'd like to point out, and it's our proposal and support to the government's actions based on the Federal Bank and the Government's declaration that national funds would be financed by domestic loans at the lowest interest and free of luck. Now, however, the government has total sludge, and it is now time to borrow two times 300 billion in foreign loans to finance the palace. This policy change is associated with a very high risk both to the welfare system and to the management environment of export workers. Let us not forget, too, that last year the debt of state funds increased by 45 billion because of changes in gangs. Thus, it is a serious risk that a government fund and the money policy are taking by taking this conversion and by borrowing abroad. We are, in effect, risking our well - being. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, whether or not she is aware of the risks involved in foreign loans and what grounds are there for such a thorough duffling policy of the government, and especially with regard to the impact this can have on the homes and businesses of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u3	It is desirable that the head of the class submit their inquiries, not after it has passed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u4	Mr. President. I'm gonna take two things from a question or something. A senator making them a subject in my reply. First, a public investment that had actually increased for Covid by 45% and has been further increased by the State. Then I'm talking about the government's investments. I'm not just talking about the traditional investments in tangible infrastructures, I'm also talking about investments in research, innovation, creative branches, climate change, energy exchange - things that are not always called investments under traditional economics but are really and true investments and the investments that I've felt were the most intervening in, because it matters to increase support for the economy of the future, and it is important that we invest in them precisely. This policy is already achieving its effectiveness. We see the growth of contributions for research and development. We're seeing a private investment rising into innovation immediately. We see newly created companies and older innovation companies coming forward and growing. This is an enormously positive economic sign. With regard to rural investments, it is important that they also respond in the same way, and we also see that their recovery looks better than previously thought. As for the financing of the state funds, there's nothing here to change. We just published a bond of 750 million euro growing 0%. It is an enormous advantage of government funding, and it is of particular importance that we, in a controlled state fund, prepare our country and abroad as well as our looking for long - term green and sustainable funding. This is the wisest way to finance a trust fund, just as it is the wisest way to ensure that our investments are in the varied ways that we really do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u5	A respectable president. This was an outstanding statement on the part of the prime minister. She does not specify the incredible benefit risk of taking foreign loans. When have we Icelanders experienced a period in our financial history, a financial history, with no risk to the crown? When? This has never occurred in the history of the nation of Israel in a period that we have not had to pay by being with our small crown. It is a great risk, in fact, a shameful risk, in my opinion, taken by the Icelandic government by taking this form of foreign borrowing. What does this mean for us? It's even The way of the government to sustain its march. We can't see it coming, but it's very likely. What does that mean? This may result in significant tax increases, direct and indirect exposure to state funds. I'm really worried about this transformation, in my opinion, because it was repeatedly said that we were going to finance it within our financial system, but it's not done. [[The president calls.]] We're taking the risk of taking the Icelandic crown, we're going to a foreign loan, and we may be betting the welfare ahead of time, and that's a threat. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u6	Mr. President. Hv. A senator declares that she is very surprised. But I'm not surprised. A senator will come up here and speak down the crown, for that is, of course, part of the political party's policy. I felt that this presentation was primarily a matter of politics rather than a real risk assessment. This is exactly what we're looking at in order to ensure a more diverse budget, we're approaching it with the interests of the public, we're approaching it with the aim of restricting the risk of success done in good cooperation of the Ministry of finance and the Bank of Iceland, and just looking to mixed funding. Counts 'em out. A senator seeking government funds at this time reflects this great risk? What a fine advantage this is when we look into history and finance a government fund in earlier years! So now I'm going to say that I think there's a saying in there. A senator is primarily a political opinion, much more than a real estimate of the situation. [[THREE: 45 billion in debt.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u7	Mr. President. On November 12, 2018, it became known that the field of research was revealed by Samherja's work in Namibia, at the hour, by Al Jazeera, and WikiLeaks. The discussion was extensive, and it was supported by evidence of payoffs, tax fraud, and money laundering, and we were shocked. In this discussion Samherja's work, one of the largest companies in Iceland, a company that had gained over 100 billion in less than ten years and stretched its arms into a number of different sectors than the fish industry in Iceland. One week later, on November 19, the highest was held. The government met and set up measures to build trust in Icelandic employment. This document showed at the highest point. A marine and agricultural minister would take the initiative that the UN Food and Agriculture Organization won an assessment of commercial fishing and trade practices, including developing countries. On the basis of the assessment, the Agency should work on proposals to improve with other international organisations that work on healthy business practices against corruption, bribes, and money laundering. Since then, 454 days have passed. I've wondered because negotiations with the Agency have been drawn by Covid-19 and data collections, but there are no negotiations on processing and proposals against corruption, bribes and money laundering. We don't know when anything is coming from the agency, but what measures have been made. Will a minister seize, or will he resort to the revelation of the Samaritan documents? What is being done under the highest leadership? A minister intended to promote wholesome business practices? What is being done to counteract the threat of corruption that is being made up of large numbers of the fish of the resource and to gain power in the community and large amounts of money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u8	A respectable president. Whatever it is. A senator makes it a subject, if I get the sense of it. A senator is correct, two matters. On the one hand, the government's declaration in November 2018 followed the media coverage of the Samherja activities of Namibia and our response in the subject that I believe has been essentially successful in all aspects of the operation announced by the government in November 19th. This assignment. There's a senator here, the FAO assessment has been drawn, that's exactly right. There are 450 and some days since this announcement came, but for various reasons, this work was fully completed and it could, at least, for one reason. I don't know exactly where it stands today, but I've been pushing after the motion and the operation. My guys at the Ministry with FAO staff have been working on the ultimate agreement for this, but right now I don't know exactly where it is. I can get information to what? That's what a senator will do when I can walk by that answer. But the last thing I know about this is that I've been pushing after it's won.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u9	Mr. President. In a piece of paper from the highest. A government published 454 days ago is spoken of a review of the law on fish control so that the rules for maximum power departments are clear. As the law has been interpreted, one party may possess a 12% quatanium, and thus another 49% share in all the other administrations of 88%. It has been pointed out that too strong the authority of a few people over a fish - rich resource is a place of greater power for them in society, but healthy people can be viewed as too strong to governments. Their influence and authority in society can be harmful, and their influence on decisions in the political and political systems can counter the interests of the public. When is a bill due to counteracting increased compression, increasing transparency, and making it easier for a Fishing House to care for its own demands? Take care of the highest. Minister will handle this lesion by legal procedure with the law on real owners, about 25% of ownership, but not the majority of property as the law stands today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u10	A respectable president. It will be addressed in accordance with the statement given there and the work that has been done in my department. I assume that by the end of this week, the actual authority of the linked parties will be placed on the consultation mystery. Hv. A senator knows quite well that work, since she was serving in a group who worked under the direction of a former State accountant in these matters and who knows even better than I do the letter assigned to the committee. I suppose the bill will go out on a consultation mystery, as I said, and will be called after comments in that subject. I'd like to mention this as an example that the Fish Room has complained that not one attempt in the past ten years has been made to define what is included in the terms "real control" or "temporaneous," but it is soon to be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u11	A respectable president. A retired person receives payment from a pension fund - he had 400,000 dollars. a month's pay, just the usual workaholics, and you can expect 50% of that, 200,000 bucks, from a pension fund - this person is affected, 45% is reduced, from 60% to less than 80%, when registering for the State's Insurance Institute. The average wage in that class is still 400,000, and as a result, he has no chance of getting into what he had before, except that he is in poverty. At the same time that the total number of tax and money paid for this pensioner is at the rate of billions, we are arguing about whether or not we are paying the billions by 10% or 20%. Is that normal? It's under the roof. Is this normal for financial ministers? Does he think it's a normal split? Shouldn't this be totally turned around? And just to reiterate it, because it's the highest. A minister repeatedly comes out of the question, is it simply a matter of asking: Is it reasonable that those who receive billions of dollars will pay their taxes? Shouldn't those who have legalized the ownership of a pension fund, rather, be wearing such a amount of 10 to20% or just financing money?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u12	A respectable president. I'll do my best to take action when it's so wide. First thing I'm going to say is that the state doesn't take any income taxes off 200 bucks. We'll take a pensioner from a pensioner, just nobody. However, the subject would give an exposure to rural society. Hv. A senator makes a comment on the fact that a person who has had certain monthly incomes over his years should not keep them when he is walking in his pension. But that's not how our pension system is built. In general, we do not expect people to maintain a full balance in their pensions, since people in general agree that they do not have to. This does not change that there is too large a group of people in this country who have not been able to use their years to ensure adequate implementation on the basis of their pension system. That's when social security rights come into place to improve the situation. Depending on how you look at the interaction of these systems, you may call the impairment or increased rights that come from social security. So I think we should be proud of how incredibly powerful a social security system we've built up to support people who have not been able to put aside what is needed to support themselves in later years. That's what we're doing better than most people, and we're doing it a lot better than most people. Similarly, over the past few years, we have taken huge steps, such as. Since 2015, we have improved the provision of those who accept an improvement from social security on average of approximately Twenty-five percent. I'm talking about the buy of available funds, a 25% increase from 2015. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this is remarkable progress in no longer any longer. [[The president calls.]] Then I'll play ball with other tax systems in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u13	A respectable president. Once again, things are being turned around. Of course, no one lives on the average of something very low that has been around. We know that consumer science has not been in touch with pay-count development. At least it's missing. Thirty percent on. But there are lots of classes, e.g. Bank managers, Supreme Court judges, even Ministers and senators, who receive and retain their salary just 100% after retirement. So they're being discriminated against. Is it natural that the richer you get and the more money you get, the more you stay and the less you have, the less you get? If you really think it's fair, just say that this is what you were headed for and that this is what you want. You want the poorer and the rich richer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u14	The president reminds them to direct their case to the president, not to speak to humans personally.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u15	A respectable president. It's just a long cover of all the false books you're sitting under. First, in recent years, the benefits of those who have at least been paid from social security have improved rapidly. Their numbers have improved faster than those who have more between their hands but still accept something from the social security system. Can I draw attention to one fact? It is not likely that countries are in a position to compensate for those who have not been able to use their years to set aside or create pension privileges as handsome as me and Iceland have made and are constantly improving. Not sure. But at the same time we are doing it, we, too, those who are now in the labour market, are paying for their unfunded pension bonds of previous years. That's what we do every year. We're paying over 71⁄28 billion a year, and we're going to do this for 30 to 35 years now. Besides, working people today are taking steps to set aside so that no one else will have to clean up after them. After all this, we are financing social security. So I say, in general, we're doing very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u16	Mr. President. Iceland has been a relatively peaceful and secure country. It is safe to say that this is how we want to keep it. In view of recent news of disasters in this city, of course, questions arise, Is this about to occur? In 2017 a U.S. Marshal's analysis of organized crime was published, and it was thought that, as it was said, the risk for such activities was high, and there was some evidence that foreign crime groups were increasing in this country. As a result, I received a special discussion here at the World Council of March 5, 2018, just about three years ago on the report published in October 2017, with the then Minister of Justice, which in fact attracted incredibly little attention. The report provided a number of warnings for the government and for the general population. Pointed out that the police were too few in number. Less than two years ago, in May 2019, a U.S. Marshal's intelligence report was issued. The possibility of this report was that the risk of major criminal offenses continues to increase. According to a risk model, the result was a dramatic risk to the evaluation of organized crime, which is the highest risk level, and that was two years ago. The report shows that there has been an increase in the import of cocaine, which may be an example of the activities of organized crime groups with foreign connections. It also shows that the distribution of foreign crime groups in import and production of amines in this country is large and even dominant. More fractions are listed in this report with foreign connections. The report points out that the police must have the strength needed to fulfill their security role. One of the results of this report was the ability of the Icelandic police to resist organized crime. The weakness has fallen to increase the likelihood of organized crime in Iceland and to increase negative consequences. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: What has been the reaction to these repeated warnings from the police since 2017?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, and of course I agree with him that this is the way we want to continue our country as a secure land. And what has been the response? They've been great. We've started a lot of work with the Marshal, and under his leadership, we've set up a group with all agents to ensure the coordination and coordination and the ability of the police to react to organized crime in this country. I repeated last October in a letter to all the police directors in the country to put these matters first, to make sure that there is plenty of resources to care for this, and to spend a lot of money on securing equipment, ability, and improving the education and training of police officers to deal with this disaster. This has been in full priority over the past few months at the Ministry of Justice, and the work that has been committed to it has benefited the police. There are still some procedures, various diagnostic work I'm waiting for from the Marshal, and it's been a top priority for action against organized crime to be put in place for all the police services and the necessary human resources involved. Of course, the events of this weekend are a concern, and I've said that there's a full reason, and it's been over the past few months, to increase the equipment and specialisation of the police on such operations. It is being handled in a clear way under the head of a state police officer with all police officers in the country, for in order to deal with this, both instruction on these matters must be ensured, the equipment must be secured, the equipment should be in order and the police should be able to figure out the problem, as the report shows. A senator mentions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for her answer. I'd like to mention that the 2019 report shows that there will be extra initiatives, intensive initiatives, and additional research. It has been pointed out that the number of local police officers has not been involved with the development of society and new work done by the police. What has been done about these matters all these years? Police officials who perform drug research and other manifestations of organized crime are also noted to have declined. This is shown in the 2019 report. They call for important changes to law enforcement. Has it been done? The authors then feel that without it there is little chance that there will be significant success in fighting organized crime. It is known that a large foreign criminal organization has made its nests and has dominated the city's subworlds, at least. In certain fields of crime. We'll go to sleep, to the top. Minister? [[The president calls.]] What are men doing in the police indications for years? Is it not time to take the root of this disease?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u19	A respectable president. No, we haven't been asleep, and I think I've come in handy with that in my first answer, huh? Senator. And that it is not being carried out by the protests and requests of the police themselves that measure this danger - that is exactly what they are doing. A U.S. Marshal himself leads that job and has suggested priorities, how to deal with organized violations, how best to ensure that procedures and the police are adequate. It's a chief of the state who's put their priorities in order for me as a minister. I've strengthened equipment and equipment purchases, strengthened the team with a different job, set off a team, and repeated to all the local police commanders to put these issues first. Of course, the reports in the report have been addressed, and the police'financial resources have been greatly increased, from 14 billion to 18 billion in a few years. [[The president calls.]] The budget must be set up, such as in other places of government, and well done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u20	President. The government's preconceived measures have turned around protecting the health and health of the nation from a shorter and longer period of time. We've been revised and adjusted to make changes in the treatment laws because they were not compatible with today's situation and conditions. Despite the need, severe and burdensome disease prevention measures have been used. But there is not much evil in all things, that there is no commandment. Following the close of a gambling hall because of its preventative measures, the campaign Lokis has opened our eyes and called attention to the most serious situation in Iceland's compulsive gambling addicts. The experiences of compulsive gamblers and liners from this destructive reality are shocking. These are people who lose everything, even play away their entire pension before noon. In the end, we saw a sign of improvement in this group, where people began to become more active members of their own lives. But now the boxes are open again. Our campaign is in full swing, and the speech and awareness of the tribe of litigation are increasing, but we have seen little or no response from the government. President. It's under the roof. Health Ministers the prerequisite that the Icelandic government indirectly rely on the misery and hopelessness of a few under the direction of reducing government expenses, such as education institutions, rather than on protecting the interests and health of these patients as well as those of other persons, as has been done in the pandemic? What will a minister do about it right now? What are the prospects ahead for this sensitive, planned group and their families?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This is a discussion that is familiar to all of us, and many of us are concerned about those who have become addicted to gambling, which is a very serious situation. I want to make sure of what. A senator tells me that I share the concerns and I have met with a group that has fought against the gambling business. However, a decision on whether to open or not to close any part of my authority or control measures is to be made, since decisions for the SEC are made on the basis of a disinfectant rather than whether the health - care minister is cowardly or not. Part of the treatment has been given to those suffering from pathological gambling. It must also do better, and society needs to do better. We've also discussed the viewpoint I think to reflect on, that there are more places that people can use or get out of their gambling habit than these sales, which are simply online. So there is nothing in this simple that the problem would be solved even if those places were to be closed. But I agree with what. A senator will need to discuss this, but I'm having authority to keep operating at a gambling hall is not at the table of the health minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u22	President. Thank you very much. The health minister answers. A minister introduces much of the problem, i.e. that this has to do with more recruitment problems than with the Ministry. A health minister, to form the Ministry of Justice. That is exactly what a minister says is important to having a conversation and to consider these matters in the community. It can't wait. V.E.G. A minister merely admitted that people can move to the Internet, but the fact is that no research shows that those who have hooked on these specific slots would cross onto the Internet. I just wanted it to come. And let's be clear about something, a respectable president, that it's gambling. The leaders of today's current law have long been smiling. At first, it was a very innocent collection box that has developed into poisonous and addictive devices that are abandoned to the sick. I'd like to ask a minister: " How will she get involved in this conversation, even with other problems, and something is done in this important group of people whose lives and worth so many people depend on? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u23	A respectable president. The things that depend on me are that of strengthening the mental - health services at all its various levels, and in times of government, there has been increased into the range of mental - health services, which is a billion on a yearly basis. It involves all those who have a mental health problem, including this problem. The law of the lottery is under the Minister of Justice, as was shown in my previous answer. I just want to be encouraging. I'm impressed by a senator. There are several tools made by members of Congress, written inquiries, unsubstantiated queries, etc., that I do not now talk about just preparing Congress, because it is the council that is the goaler and is the lawgiver.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u24	A respectable president. I want to talk to the highest. Healthcare Minister for changes in medical management and its induction arrangements. This was done for the health care of the capital area in 2017. We remember, I think most of them, how the medical discussion was in the capital area, that was much care and lack of health care professionals, that was long waiting for services and so on. But we hear much less, if any of this, today. So I think that in most aspects, this induction process on the changed health care of the capital area has gone very well, and health care has been able to take its place even better. Work has now been taking over this budget for the national health care of the country. But there was something else that would follow this induction here in the capital area. It was prepared by an independent operating clinic to come in with existing health centres, in order to obtain a wide range of management plans and to increase the choice for the users, which I think was a good one. This has led to a widespread search for health care and a long wait for services, such as in Southnes, in the capital area. That's why I'm asking the highest. A health minister is not able to implement similar regional arrangements and work with independent workers to speed up this success achieved here in the country, e.g. In Smokeynestown and Akureyri.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up the subject of health care development. It has been most important in my day at the Ministry of Health to strengthen the health care of the whole country. In order to maintain this, funding has increased by 25% during the period, at the price of 2021, for health care all. It is true that this financing model has now had some experience in the capital area. It has given us a great deal of satisfaction, and we are very happy with how it turns out. At the same time, we must weigh it from year to year, i.e. to form how heavy some variables road, I mention e.g. Social factors and other factors. Now we are actually moving this system to the country with its question marks. Of course, there are other aspects of the country, such as distance from health care, design issues that are different in various territories, etc. This is all in accordance with medical conferences adopted by the council, and it is about our having a uniform funding system, regardless of who is in charge of health care. My personal opinion is that while we're in a building phase for the health care program, while we're increasing its role, we need to step very carefully to the ground as far as other operators are concerned. We need to evaluate the need each time. We also need to evaluate the risks of having more than one system in progress when the design challenges are as great as they really are.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. It's quite obvious that, for example. in Southnes, however, a designer has long been present, although there is no independent, independent health care. True, building up new clinics on Southnes has been expected, but building them up and humans takes considerable time. Today, government - run health care cannot succeed. We can see that here in the capital area, the number of stations and demand responds by increasing the number of self - employed ones. Now, the whole community government ofSandnestown has agreed that it cannot wait while building health care programs that have been planned for financial and financial programs. So I think that the fastest solution to care for the health care system and to build it quickly and safely, and that man, a major challenge in the Southnes, is to cooperate with an independent business, with a variety of management forms on Southnes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u27	A respectable president. Asking why. The senator's attitude on this, which I believe, is valid and is a good reason to discuss it. However, the current investment campaign allows us to build another health care center in the territory of the South American Health Organization. This agency needs support for building, design, financing, etc. And while we are on that assignment, i.e. I believe that this is our most important project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u28	The arrangement has been agreed on. After the past history of the minister, representatives of all classes have the right to direct questions to the minister, have a specific speaking period, and have the highest authority. Minister of certain hours to comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u29	A respectable president. We are here again to discuss the situation in government action against the Covid-19 epidemic and are both kindly and obliged to have a regular discussion with the Council on that subject. Recently, the Covid-19 epidemic has been in great remission within the country, and Iceland has specialized among European countries. On February 8 of the past, the value of regulations on the limitations of our meetings for the sake of epidemics and the second March 3rd. That is what is normally called action within the country. At that time, cautionary compromises took place. The main changes then taken into effect were that dance clubs, pubs, and arcades were permitted to re-open certain conditions, the mass limit of visitors in the stage arts was increased from 100 to 150, and the same peak was applied to the activities of religious and laboratory organizations as well as shops and museums. The important thing is that we continue to use contagion, isolation, and transmission to those who have been exposed to or infected. The epidemic situation in the country provides reason to consider further problems. However, there is a risk that if cross - border leakage is spread, the new outbreak could begin rapidly. Therefore, it is necessary to attack certain measures on the border in addition to those already in force. These arrangements were addressed at a government meeting this morning. Our situation today differs from that of last spring in that new and more infectious variants have developed in many neighboring countries, as well as the peak epidemic still in many neighboring countries. Therefore, it is important not to look at the situation within the country but to watch a national cohesion of national and national activities. It has been suggested that all citizens in the country will be required for proof of a negative PCR test that is not over 72 hours of age before leaving for the country. Furthermore, an individual with positive results at the first screening of the border will be made to stay in a disease - control facility if adequate isolation or stress status is not available. Also, if you have been diagnosed with viruses that are more infectious than others and/or cause more severe disease, you will have to stay in an impetus. I have already agreed with these suggestions from a psychiatrist and the Regulation of this material will be applied on Friday afternoon, February 19, 2011. Two double screenings on the border that are screened for their arrival and again five days later will remain the same. He also suggests that it is no longer necessary to provide them with access from disease provisions on the border as a valid proof that they have been vaccinated. We have not seen any reason to agree with the proposal at this time and to feel that it needs further attention, as it is so that the development of the issue of proof has been in the way that more and more European countries have adopted such testimony as valid on the border. Each week is vaccinated and the procedure has been successful. Based on yesterday's figures, vaccination is initiated in 8338 individuals and approximately 5,757 fully vaccinated individuals. The first transmission from AstraZeneca arrived last week and the staff of nursing homes in the capital area were vaccinated. It is now assumed that this group will be vaccinated in mid - March. Vaccination in the age group 90 years and older is advanced and vaccination is assumed to be inactivated at the beginning of March. During the same week, the goal is to initiate vaccination of those who are in the priority group 5; there are other healthcare professionals who directly care for patients. Concomitant vaccinations of older age groups must continue with Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, while the AstraZeneca vaccine will be used primarily for healthcare professionals. A total of 280,000 people in Iceland receive vaccinations, i.e. all 16 years of age and older. It can then be assumed that fewer than 190,000 people will be vaccinated before the end of June with the vaccines Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Modernerna. This is the vaccine authorised in Europe. In addition, vaccines from more products produced in the second quarter of the year can be expected provided they are authorised. This is a subject from Janssen and CureVac. In addition, the European Commission is responsible for completing a contract for the purchase of a Novavax vaccine. The healthcare professional is now working to make a vaccination calendar based on available information on the availability of vaccines in the following months and on priorities and when individuals in each group can expect to receive vaccinations. Information will be provided on the possible changes to the delivery programmes. A model for this is found on the land doctor's office, the Djahsdstrielsen website, a Danish sister's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u30	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this regular report, which has been through the years quite illuminating and important that we take up a discussion about it. Nearly a year ago, this country was diagnosed with infection. And it's been less than two months since the first vaccine was given for this virus. I must say that vaccination is extremely possible even if I'm not going to ask a question about it. I'd rather spend my time asking for the precariousness of action. Now it's the highest. A minister has told us how a vaccine will come here and what expectations it will have in the months to come, and he has mentioned various figures in this regard. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister on the destiny: Does the government have any intention, or has it published a set set of restrictions when a certain part of the nation has been vaccinated or anyone over a certain age, perhaps over 60 or 70? Are there some actions and compromises that people and their professional life in the country can expect and foresee beforehand, that they will be let loose by certain social restrictions, i.e. that by the time everyone over the age of 60 has been vaccinated, which is then at a certain point, if expectations become experienced, will be relaxed, when the higher risk groups have been vaccinated and if the virus is worst tolerated?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u31	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is impatient and wants vaccination to go faster. Vaccinations are good in Iceland. What I'd rather have pity on would be if the senator were impatient with it, the vaccine didn't get back to the country faster. But it is certainly soon to happen, as soon as it is in the country, to do both distribution and immunization, since that system is in extremely good order. Hv. A candidate asks about the context of the anti-pyretic measures and the vaccinations. As mentioned in the news yesterday, we can say with some certainty that by the end of June, some 190,000 individuals will have been vaccinated in this country. This tells a story, helping all who are making arrangements, whether professional or nonprofit. The same can be said that the government has already said about national border operations since May 1 that action will reflect the state of the color encoding system in Europe. So as all of this progresses, we add to our sense of being an enormously uncertain environment, such as the wind. A senator well knows. The statistics published in the media yesterday and in my introduction, are the figures based on the currently authorised vaccines, both in Europe and in Iceland, and are initiated. We still have material from more sources, so there is reason why we can continue to enter Iceland's approach to the most ordinary everyday life. And that is our objective, the objective of all of us, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. In effect, I'm pointing to the importance of employment and asking in view of the fact that many areas of employment are deeply paralyzed and other areas are totally paralyzed, such as. Most of the travel service and the restaurant business. So I ask you, we can't be waiting for some kind of herd resistance that might be some late summer, as I hear from the news. There's a time point before I'm asking about it, when the high - risk groups have been vaccinated, and governments provide predictable plans for them to be relaxed so that their jobs can be righted earlier and make their own plans. Of course, employers are making plans now for the summer, and they could have some kind of tragedy in this, but not just hope that some vaccine will come, and then something happens, and then suddenly something more. That governments will reveal what the reality is. Is it meant to wait for herd resistance, or is it to relax when high - risk groups and those who get worse out of these illnesses?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u33	A respectable president. The situation is that Iceland is now an open country in Europe. In Europe today, we have the lowest limits on employment and daily life. That's the situation. We have stressed that there are no longer any restrictions or burdensome measures needed to prevent disease from occurring. So we will continue, and we can do so because we are driving every single one of them, and because we are using contagion and isolation in a consistent manner. We are to be glad that we have chosen this very useful and targeted way to ensure that this community is as active and as powerful as it can be. And it is. But it will also be that when the action takes place that was presented today for national action, we will indicate further exposition within the country. A health - care doctor has announced that such procedures will come in a memo in the days ahead. I can assure you what. A member of the Parliament that it will benefit all of today's activities, both to increase the maximum number of those who can be in the same space and to reduce inhibition of specific activities as possible. It's always been our guide, and it's gonna be here until now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u34	A respectable president. Insatisfactory was noted in the case of the highest degree. A health minister in response to a single response. A senator. It may not be surprising that both members of the body and the public will be impatient about these matters because each week is very important in this situation. They call for a normal life in Iceland. It was praised on August 19 for the harshest work on the borders and on the pros and on which this normal life has been unsurpassed. So it may not be surprising that impatience comes to mind. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister following a recommendation for the latest plans to have one half of the population to be vaccinated, which I understand should be in July. It's the most recent figure. It's always getting late. Given that e.g. Danir estimates that the entire Danish nation will have been invited for vaccination in June, and I would like to ask the highest possible answers yesterday or the day before. Minister if there is not yet some way to increase the cost to the country, by some agreement with the European Union. Whether it is wise to maintain a good conversation with other manufacturers, at least the three that we already got ourselves a vaccine. Also, it is not possible to mention the latest measures presented here and to take effect on Friday, about the third screening for people who arrive in the country. In that light, I would like to ask: What is the objective of the government today by the third screening? Is the goal no longer to strip? Is the goal now to put Icelanders in a so - called free country?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. I noticed it, and feel it all normal, and nothing about looking, to the well. A senator is impatient, I think the nation is happy to be. Above all, the nation is very patient and is very sustained in its state and has been in a period of nearly a year, since February 28 is a whole year since its first infection was diagnosed. This has proved to be a real challenge to community unity and patience, and I am especially glad to see how united governments have been in this operation. It was also true of the actions presented in the government this morning as regards the demand that passengers bring a negative PCR test from the exits in addition to the double screening that we have already performed. What is the purpose of this? The aim is that we can remove as much as possible within the country, despite the fact that the epidemic's situation is disturbing in many countries around us. I think there's some time left to try to want it, that we can continue to clear our operations here within the country. Then you ask me why. A senator to see if we can increase the amount of money we buy. I say yes. We have the goal of increasing the amount of money we can buy, as far as possible, and do so, just as it points out for Dani and an additional Pfizer dose. We have received such doses, and that is on the basis of those we had to explain to us a more powerful plan than we have ever been able to talk about before.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u36	A respectable president. It is proper to maintain the global decline of the infection in the vast majority of countries. It's got a bit of a mix-up going on that there's a situation in the countries around us, but the infection's at least and there is good reason to further reduce the limits in this once significant area and, if ever, the previous one had. But I'm glad to continue trying to negotiate with the European Union for the purchase of more vaccines, as other European countries have clearly been doing. However, I would like to ask about what the news has been about, or I've been told that Icelanders and others who come into the country and are vaccinated with vaccines other than Pfizer vaccines to make up with the Modernna vaccine, that they have not been accepted at screening and screening. I find it most surprising that in the Icelandic border the Icelanders can't be vaccinated, and that a long time ago, they escaped at screening and infection. [[The president calls.]] I would like to know what it would be like to refer to Icelandic law and regulations in that regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u37	A respectable president. I'm not familiar with the rumors. A senator refers to having a valid proof of vaccination on the border, so in the course of the year. A senator has to back it up better. Then, in the United States and Denmark, we have been more careful with numbers than we have been discussing in Denmark, today's speeches, and in the media yesterday. to the extent that we have not entered the big number, the products that have not yet been authorised. That's the explanation for these different numbers. Of course, when we examine the figures in Denmark, people like Janssen and CureVac and other manufacturers that have not come all the way to the permit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u38	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the report she presented at the outset but would like to reiterate my request that we here at the council receive some points in the morning of the report, so that we can prepare a little more for the discussion. I think she'll just be richer as a result. But okay. I think it's very important that we have strict rules on the border. It has been shown that it has yielded well and is far more likely to have stricter national rules than to try to open the community as far as possible here in the country. I'm only thinking about the PCR test that was reported this morning, which must be new than 72 hours old. It is certainly used in many states, e.g. in Denmark, there may even be no more than 24 hours old, so that passengers can even land abroad at Kastrup Airport. But okay. This test will apply to everyone, including the Icelanders. Then I'd like to ask that question to the highest level. Minister how this will match with 2 mg. 66. g. The Constitution, which says that the Icelandic citizen will not be prevented from coming to the country or being excommunicated. If an Icelandic citizen doesn't have this test, how will we set matters on a border? I reiterate that I think it's important to have strict boundaries on the border, but I also believe it's important that we keep track of the rules we set according to the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u39	A respectable president. As noted in the question of why. The senator then had the information that was presented in my introduction, most of them in a press release earlier this morning, and I hope to do so. Congress officials have been able to observe the points under discussion. Happily, in this discussion here at the council, we are not presenting new information but we are keeping together the discussion that has been discussed, and then I sit here for answers. Hv. A senator agrees with the importance of playing it together, having stricter rules on the border, and then being able to relax within the country. But the senator has doubts about the need for a negative PCR test for everyone. I don't share these doubts, and neither do my Ministry doesn't. On the basis of the motion of a psychiatrist, we've considered how these suggestions fit in with the laws and regulations and, including a constitution, although, of course, there is absolutely no evidence that the Icelandic citizens will never be dismissed from the country. That would never work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u40	Mr. President. Thank you so much for these answers from the highest. Minister. Then I'd like to ask you further, since the Icelandic citizen will not be dismissed from the country, which is good because it does not conform to a constitution, what will be done if an Icelandic citizen shows up here, and does not have a PCR test, what will be done to that person on the border. It is said that if a tourist does not reveal a specific residence under a contour, he will not be allowed into the country. What's it like with the Icelandic citizen coming to America? Do they ask where they are staying? I have the authority that they won't, not to ask any Icelandic citizens who come to the country where they'll be, whether they'll be with their families. This has, of course, been reported that relatives pick up Icelanders at the airport, and I wondered: " How is this supposed to be done? Should Icelandic tourists handle a taxi? Is it safe? I'm just wondering what the project is like. And again I reiterate: I'm following rigid rules on the border because I think it's important, but I'm just curious about how this is going to be done. It is not for good reason that such rules are rigid, but how is it carried out? In the end, I'd like to ask if there's any opinion in my mind. Ministers to allow sales for the numberable seats in sports games, such as in theaters and concerts, because you hear a loud cry from those who are trying to keep the sports club going.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u41	A respectable president. Whatever it is. A candidate refers to his second question, in effect, that the implementation of the measures that have been carried out so far and does not particularly concern the policy change that goes into force on Friday will be to monitor those in the field of infection or isolation, to monitor more closely or to ensure that passengers will not be drawn by relatives or friends at the border station, to improve the pre-registered, etc. So there are many factors involved in the implementation. But I'd like to stick around for a while. A senator asks about specific matters, for it is of great importance that the answer is answered, i.e. The procedure for Icelanders who do not have a negative PCR test. This will be checked until the Regulation has taken effect. I can't tell you exactly how it's going to be done, but there's a fine in the law that could be applied. But there's not exactly enough to be answered here completely clean. In this change, we would attempt to close better, like a dog. A senator mentioned. However, the senator also reviewed the situation with a marked seat and sports contest. I think it's very important in all of these measures that there's a most consistent relationship between operations, i.e. that one activity obeys one rule and other activities; that rules are much more about arrangements, i.e. the number, location of people, whether in marked seats, etc. We will try to do so as well as we can in the next step. I know the sports movement is excited, and I am, too, so I think we should look at it. But this has given us a great deal to do with the stage arts, and I think we should continue on that path.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u42	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for your report and history earlier. I would really like to celebrate the opportunity the council has had in a regular way, and will probably have continued, to have this conversation with the minister. I think it is very important that we make the application of that right and discuss on equal terms with ministers and get answers. The opportunity to have this conversation is greatly increased in the community, and it is safe to say the highest. A minister to commend that this has yielded well and, in my opinion, the minister has handled it well. It has been discussed in this discussion of a certain anxiety and the highest. The minister entered it earlier in answer to another. A senator. What I might have wanted to ask about the anxiousness of the Ministry or the Ministry's staff is whether any information from vaccine producers about production speed or the expected production rate, i.e. whether it is part of the information source, as this would likely help the Ministry to plan ahead and, in the same way, evaluate the level to be applied for the delivery of dosing to the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u43	A respectable president. As noted in the news and also in the Department's statement yesterday, this is especially because the production capacity of certain companies has increased that we are seeing more vaccines. We know that Pfizer reduced its production in the first quarter in order to increase it by others. I'm not an insider in any pharmaceutical company, so I don't understand exactly how it happens, but it's like that. The same is really happening with AstraZeneca. I expect us to get more information from there, and that's based on the increase in production capacity. What you hear, too, is that these companies are looking for ways to produce more than one, and then likely with some kind of contract with another person. This is what we have. The Council that it does not receive formal production information. It's not like that. Our contact surface is, in fact, the main amount, followed by the delivery plan according to this pan-European total spot according to the specific percentages.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u44	Mr. President. As the Minister of Ministers entered the past, this is always a measure of uncertainty under which you understand, especially when producing substances that may not have been manufactured before, which may therefore be more complex in production than many other things that these companies have taken for granted. I don't remember whether I've thought about it in my conversations with the highest. Minister, but if I count the correct site for the vaccine, there are six vaccine producers; the Ministry has already agreed with four or five of them, but one or two others are mentioned. There are now more vaccine producers and the vaccine that has been received by the most positive, at least from published magazines or literature, appears to be the vaccine Sputnik developed by the Old Island Institute in Moscow. The research on this subject has been interesting, I think it can be said, and published, as someone would say, in very established magazines. I'd like to ask a minister: Are there discussions with more vaccine producers, I'm not necessarily just talking about Sputnik, but appearing on the page? I'm not asking the highest. Minister to inform us of any secret but are such conversations involved and the Ministry interested in that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. In addition to what is on the page of the vaccine. there is a vaccine from Novavax that we can share on the same terms as the other agreements of the European Union. For Sputnik V, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (EMA) is looking at this vaccine in view of the possibility of giving what is called a temporary emergency. One of the grounds for such a license is that a vaccine is available and accessible, in order to make such a deal. There is good reason to examine this further, and that the Ministry of Health does so, the EMA and its carriers, on the other hand, at the European Community, where these factors are being considered, but on the basis of which I mention here, and with the expected approach of the Ministry of State, which would assist them in such dealings. This is the basis for which the European Medicines Agency, the European Medicines Agency, is authorised for the administration of vaccines by the European Medicines Agency. It is the principle and is a recognition of both the efficacy and the safety of the material and also the inclusion of the manufacturing process according to standards, etc., but the alternative is temporary permission. These two options are always in place and include one of the factors to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u46	President. The Organization of Our Education, which consists of a number of students at the School of Law School, recently gave a review of the proposals of Education to pursue academic policy so far up to the Council and suggested that the education system become modern education and adapt to the needs of students. The comment to the Generalis is, in fact, "You don't know what's going on." The kids criticize that they do not receive instruction on important subjects, such as mental illness. President. We will discuss the prospects ahead, and we know that during the pandemic, there has been spiritual health and that heart - control measures have been most difficult for young people to study. Often needed, but now is necessary. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Will a minister take advantage of special measures to catch up with groups who have become spiritually ill during the epidemic and are in school, and will a minister take advantage of some form of mental activity as part of a leading school program, such as the children of the Law Schools have called in advance?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u47	A respectable president. I also noticed these kids, and they were great. I think it is infinitely important for governments at all times to live in the hands of young people who make demands and remain on the table. What we have done - because as a health minister, I have been very alert to the challenge of mental health during the pandemic - it is to build up the system and strengthen it step by step at all levels, as we discussed earlier today, and on the other hand, we have suggested a special 540 million in 2020 and again this year just on mental - health care so that we can improve it. In the long run, however, mental activity needs to be part of all schooling, from high school to high school. We've got the plan, and the induction's started.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u48	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Health Minister for this report, and not just for the report and for reviewing the situation with us today, but for this regular conversation that has been a very important factor in all of this. How happy we are that the epidemic is on its way, and we are in a good position! No other claims can be made than that the matter has been carefully held. Today and throughout the discussion, it is quite amazing to think that a year has passed, that we are impatient and impatient with uncertain situations, of course. What I was going to put into the first question is that from the very beginning. The last thing we had was a minister who was expecting everything in relation to a possible investigation that did not occur. Somehow, patience in these circumstances becomes virtue, only virtue. There is a delay in our success, and the vaccine is now being given and vaccinated each week as the highest. The minister crossed over, and there will be 190,000 people, if plans known to be followed in June. This leads to the conclusion that the only thing that can happen is that vaccine recipients grow on the axis, beyond the allowing point, in the production and distribution of the material, and that they can produce more and more vaccines, and that they can continue to distribute in more than the previous amount. Is it wrong to assume that at least 190,000 people will be vaccinated in June, and possibly more?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u49	A respectable president. No, that's not wrong. You see, it is accurate to conclude. As mentioned in my case earlier, 190,000 is actually a very conservative plan. That is where we are based on the three successful producers. Other manufacturers are in their sights, some of them even making deals with them. I'll mention to make Janssen, or Johnson & Johnson, since we've made contracts to buy 235,000 doses. There is hope that this vaccine will be made to make it necessary for only one injection and it will probably be authorised in Europe for the next month. Hope is also available that the delivery of this material can begin immediately in the second quarter so that there are other positive signs in the air - just around the head. Senator. Hv. A senator was talking about this discussion at the council and that patience was virtue and very much had been tested in Icelandic society. The situation is that Icelandic society and the public in Iceland have been incredibly intervening through these measures and through this epidemic. I'm sure there are many thanks, but I think it's important for all of us to be aware of how valuable we are because we are basically united in an Icelandic society. The surgeon general examined the public's view of vaccination at Covid-19 and about 90% say it is completely safe, very safe, or rather likely to be vaccinated. In this case, 92.5% of the vaccines are considered to be either very or rather safe. It's the mood for vaccinations in Icelandic society, and it's incredibly important. [[The president calls.]] Vaccinations are not just about the health of the individual but about the health of the community in general, so the willingness to give vaccinations is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. What we have learned in this process is also the result of these important meditations. I think it's safe to say that the nation went through a greater challenge and for a longer time than ever before that an entire nation could pass through and the world, of course, all of course. But there is something we can learn from this. That is exactly the test of will and solidarity and the real meaning of solidarity. After decisions have been made, it must mean that everyone is trying to make decisions. That's probably the arrangement. In the second question, I intend to stay with what was presented in the case of the highest degree. A minister with a view to this logical context of parts and hopefully to further compromise from February 8 and the highest. Minister handled well. I think it's very wise to tighten the rules on the border and use the right position we're in within the country. Then you will think of those who have suffered the most challenges in their professional life, stagers, and athletes. Sports are entering the highest stage of the season, and outings are moving into the season. Then you can ask yourself, " Am I seeing any compromises, e.g.? ' in the restaurant sector, the number of viewers in the stage arts, and something like that can apply to sports. [[The president calls.]] I think all these parties did a perfectly great job and showed the patience that has been needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u51	A respectable president. I totally agree with what. Senator. If this is not the right occasion, I don't know what, thanking all these people for their endurance and endurance, but also for their flexibility and for their solution. The team of athletes in continuing to perform their performance, e.g. and to continue with what they lived for very long periods of time, with limited potential for practice, but still go full into it when the openings are smiling. The stage arts, watching the games on the stage, the musicians, etc. for halfheartedly taking the applause that comes from the heart, even if it does not shine as well as in a crowded house. This is all of us. The restaurant people say, "Go over here and go over there and watch out for yourself here, and find ways to give us their wonderful service. Of course, this is also what makes life in the community, and we feel that it is also a solidarity, that we all exist in it. Hv. A senator agrees with me that it is wise to put up with border rules. I think it is very wise right now to do so because of the high value we have in our land. We can expand it, and we should. I've had a conversation with a pathologist today regarding domestic compromises, and he tells me that the suggestions for this material are being developed. We can expect to see such things just in the next few days, and it will be about that type of activity. A senator mentions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u52	A respectable president. Vaccination is, of course, the key to economic restoration. Therefore, it has as much to say about the approach of economic measures to the timelines for vaccination. We all know that there are no actual expectations for significant changes in unemployment counts until vaccination is generalised. We also know how much each day of disease prevention, though important, costs us economicly dearly. Yesterday's news was truly positive, with these government promises to have been vaccinated in half the nation by the end of June, but while all the people have had reason to rejoice yesterday, the other side of the matter is the unsettled, of course, that the hopes of travellers are limited. Of course, it has to do with the global situation as it is here. However, in view of how much we depend on our tourism, unlike the rest of the nations, this situation is more economic than it is. Just with our neighbors. In today's big and historical unemployment problem, with a large proportion of unemployment in the tourism business and now being further hardened, I ask if there was some field-of-view analysis for the impact of these treatment measures in the case of unemployment. Last night, the executive director of the Association for Tourism in Kashlight told us that the tourism companies jumped in the fall. A travel minister speaks of many companies as being completely oxygen free. So I'd like to hear about this staging. I have full understanding of and support of these measures, but I admit that I would have liked to see the compromise in my country, that oxygen was introduced to a business close by this step, and that the wheels were back in the economy to the extent possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the support of the procedures presented today. Of course, it is of utmost importance the convergence that we have all had through the politics on these actions and the approach we are showing here in Iceland. We have made good decisions, and this has been reflected in how well we are doing. I am convinced that this is both a cause and a result. Hv. One senator noted that it was better if the arrangements in the country had been involved with those we are now taking on national arrangements. It should be taken into account that we actually see an effect of changes in national measures of approximately two weeks and that's about On Monday, however, the final change took place on February 8th. These are all things that play together. Hv. A senator asks for staging. There, the Ministry of Presidency has had the perspective on this interaction between disinfectants and vaccinations and then impact on individual aspects of the economy and health services, etc. I expect something will show up from that job as soon as possible. I'll take into account what you're worried about. A senator of the travel service, but I think that as soon as we know a little more, as happened to Jóhannes Skúlason yesterday, it will simplify all plans and also plans for the tourism. I think, despite everything, there's a lot of energy in tourism. It is a very detailed article that has much knowledge and experience to live and the basis for which there is a clearer understanding, the more likely this article will be answered. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answers, and he agrees, and there's concern about the underlying factors, how clearly they are. I would have liked to see it happen now, when we're not at the beginning of the line, either this position or the antiviral action, that when such important decisions are presented to you, there would be something that would not come in the next few days, but what would be expected of the tourism when these steps become stages? I reiterate that I'm not saying this because I'm opposed to them, but it's important, premise, and predestination. Just as we've already talked about the fact that strong disease prevention measures must follow powerful economic actions, the premise must be established and the destiny must also be on hand. I'm pointing, for example. to include long term unemployment with medical consequences, a case on the table of health ministers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I ask the secretary of health for the second time: Has experience in the effects of disease prevention recently affected the approach of the government in the current steps?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u55	A respectable president. These were a lot of questions in one minute. One of them will tell if there had been a higher risk of disease prevention, etc. As we present this morning's activities involved in cross-border action, there is the basis for the information published by a psychiatrist and a state police officer, a border field. That is, in fact, the basis for it. I've been stressing all along that all my notes are part of public discussion, and they will be; that we have open conversations, and we enjoy how few our community is, and we're in conversation and agreement with parties who need to be treated for these disease prevention procedures, and we've been. It has made it possible for everyone to be ready at any stage. What we are doing has never come out of the blue because we want us to be united in what lies ahead. We can also be very proud, a respectable president, of the economic activities that Iceland has taken after the virus.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u56	A respectable president. It's better late than never that we're both health ministers and people, starting to see the light at the end of the Covid epidemic. About a year ago, Inga Sæland, president of the Flocks, came up here on the platform and demanded that we imitate New Zealand and closed the border, see that the virus doesn't get in. She went to Castlight on RUS, where she was, in effect, mocked for this proposal. Now, just over a year later, this is just exactly a suggestion. How do we see this? Yes, we see it in New Zealand, what the situation is there. 5 million people with 25 deaths, much less infected than we do. It also shows how amazing this virus is and how it can bypass everything. It's going through those who're serving planes, that's the latest one. They're shutting down, they're shutting down fast. But what are we talking about here? I say we record what New Zealand is doing. We're supposed to make sure the virus doesn't get in. Why should we do so? Because it is all we can benefit from. We can open up here sports events, outhouses, all kinds of things. But what do we need? We don't need this for four or six months. But just think if we could get the British or the South American in here, it'd be really scary. And this PCR test--it was fake, they went into Norway on a fake test.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u57	A respectable president. We've had disagreements before, me and what. A senator, about what is seen in the people's vision on preventative measures at any given time. I'm very happy to be in a community where we communicate on these things, and I just think it's good and healthy. But it's also just as good as it's important that I disagree completely with it. A senator says here. I believe it has been our luck to have taken care of the best people in this field who are experts in the field, in the field of epidemiology; a pathologist, a land surgeon, etc. I think our position on the map, and especially now on the European map, makes it clear that we have made the right decisions, although I am totally interested in wondering what would have happened if someone had made other decisions in the past at some other time. But I think at some point we just have to face the fact that we're in a pretty good place. Iceland has been happy, both in our community and in the decisions we have made. The situation we have today allows us to open up our society more than we have done before, that we can see an opened - up European society that is very precious, not just precious to our economy and to our professional life, but especially valuable to each of us, our families, our friends, and each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u58	A respectable president. I think it's okay if we just disagree on this. But there is something else. We know that it was a hitchhiker traveling through the Southland that was supposed to be under an infection. Three travelers who were to be under siege went out to have a good time and then disappeared without being caught. These are the alarms that call and we're supposed to pay attention to them. But there's one thing I cut off in a minister's speech at the beginning, she said that AstraZeneca's vaccine would be for health care professionals as if the situation were now. Why? I would also like to ask: " Does anyone really get to choose the medications they get? ' Now there have been side effects with one vaccine, more than with another, and I ask, " Can people choose? ' I am, for example. with allergies and not enough of it, I have a special situation that I must not even be injected into the left arm, but must be injected on the right side -- of course, it is long before the right course is injected. [[The president calls.]] Some people are in such a situation that they have to choose whether they will be able to tolerate the relevant material. [[The president calls.]] Why can't we choose? Will that not be allowed for vulnerable groups who are aware of this and who are afraid of obtaining certain material?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u59	A respectable president. Hv. A senator's concern is that he's under control, and I can assure the senator that we're making it right. This is one of the suggestions made by a psychiatrist in his memo, i.e. that the conduct of the environment monitors will be improved to improve the monitoring of persons who are infected. Hv. A senator also asks about it, and we have actually discussed this in a comparable discussion, whether people can choose a vaccine. But it's not like that. People will not be able to choose a vaccine, which would be completely hopeless. However, it must be the role and decision of a health care professional on the other hand, to weigh on which vaccines are used individually.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u60	A respectable president. Yeah, we'll talk about Covid-19 and the prospects ahead. I'm gonna let me look a little further ahead, but we've done a lot of people here today. Of course, it's no secret that we've had a lot of success in our fight with Covid-19, but it's simply that the struggle with Covid-19 isn't all about death or intimidation in intensive care. Studies abroad, of course not far off, show that at least 10% of patients experiencing this disease may have long-term symptoms. The director of Smokehund and the Commissioner for Medicine Smoke, Pétur Magnússon and Stefán Yngvason, wrote a fine article in the Morning newspaper, earlier this month, entitled Associations at the Final Expansion. There, they considered these factors only. Smokeloaf has completed some 30 people, another 30 may be undergoing rehabilitation, and the list of checks may be comparable. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of hers sees us working with these factors. What role does the use of smoke play in our struggle? What other rehabilitation measures may be available, perhaps especially, how do we see further research on the sequelae of Covid, and what can be achieved by rehabilitation? What role does Smokety play in this struggle? Maybe I'll just come up with another part of the second question about the aftereffects of Covid. On the one hand, we're talking about the chronic illness that Smokehund and more therapists are working with, while it's mental activity that we've also made a little bit of a little bit of adulation - what's planned. Minister when it comes to these factors?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u61	A respectable president. I have been very happy in observing the pioneer service that has been carried out on smokekund regarding these matters in particular. Of course, it is no satisfaction to know how common the sequelae of Covid-19 are. At the same time, it is very important to hold to the level of knowledge, research, and then to develop a service for the truly residual group. I've already arranged funds for Smokeloaf to further this service, i.e. rehabilitation services for those in the aftereffects due to Covid-19. At my meeting with the leaders of Smokeund, we also discussed cooperation, both research and knowledge - sharing, between Land Hospitals, Smokeloaf, and foreign parties in this subject. We naturally find ourselves in a unique situation in terms of how close we are to each of our systems, that there have been analysis of each case, that we have also been in infectious tracers on every case. This scientific foundation, all of these are very strong. There is evidence that there may be spiritual sequelae, i.e. which concern your mental health, and need to be monitored very carefully. We have a special headship of the Ministry, directed by the surgeon's office, which is designed solely to monitor mental health and the need for mental health care in the epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u62	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this, continuing to encourage the development of rehabilitation measures for Covid. We see this progress in medical science, how successful we have been, that we need to work hard on our rehabilitation to make sure that people can get back into life and back into their work. However, only with respect to other sequelae of Covid. I came into the gym, and loneliness was now a problem - even to countries such as Britain had a special Ministry of Loneliness. What are our plans to cooperate with this in particular with the older group? There are also the disfellowshipped youths from sports, and it has been reported in the news that 3,000 young people have been released from sports by Covid. But there is also something positive about Covid, many talking about less stress, more family association. Speaking of family life, I think a lot of families are planning to go north and use snow and ski on their coming winter holiday. The highest. During winter vacation, do ministers not make the country's families happy?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for refreshing encouragement. It's not like this arrangement that I come here to the General's symposium to make decisions on how to ease or relax the risk of contracting disease. I just want to emphasize what I've said before that our will is to reverse these measures as anything is possible, because we must always be able to reason them with reference to the disease if we are above our heads with some limitations on what people can do. Hv. A senator specifically asks about aspects of public health in a broad sense, and then I want to mention it, because I spoke of a special control group to monitor mental health, that another one of them has been set up to protect special public health parameters through Covid. Of course, it is also very important. It refers to factors such as exercise, fellowship, diet, sleep, etc. We need all of this because we need to base our decisions on knowledge and facts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u64	President. Thank you very much. Minister for coming and reporting this report today. I just wanted to ask you more about 2 mg. 66. g. .............. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir asked about earlier. According to a science report, travellers will be asked for negative results from PCR at the exit. I wondered, then, if this means that airline workers will supervise the procedure by making sure that tourists have these results and that they are negative. Tells you the highest. Minister that if it's right, it's 2 mgr. 66. g. The Constitution that says it is not lawful to forbid Icelandic citizens to come to the country? Has a moderate measure been ensured sufficiently in these planned measures? A few weeks ago, it was mandatory to have double screening at the arrival of the country, and it is certainly a burdensome procedure. Is the procedure to demand travelers and, in particular, the Icelandic citizen for a negative PCR test in the ensuing country within the U.S. government authority, being careful to make a moderate enough effort?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u65	A respectable president. As mentioned in my conversation with what? One of the earlier members of the discussion will never be so that the country will be dismissed by Icelandic citizens, obviously not. On the other hand, what will take place and how the work will be done is a question that remains unsettled, and we will consider in the light of equal and measured and other principles of the administrative court, for we need everything to be fulfilled. Hv. A member in particular asks about the procedure in showing a negative PCR test when burdening at the exit, as it is called. This is actually a double duty. On the other hand, the tourist's duty, which is something that we can do to separate on the basis of a disinfectant law, and on the other hand, it is a minor duty to the operator in the flight. It is about air travel, so there is another legal base involved. But as Danir has done so so far, the main aim is that the duty of the tourist himself and the rest really lies behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u66	Thanks for that. I didn't find the answer clear enough to explain a moderate point because tourists who come to Iceland, whether it's Icelandic citizens or not, already have to have two screenings, which include privacy interventions, both taking this test, taking an infection bed for five days and going back to screening. When these measures were introduced a few weeks ago, to make this a duty, a debate about moderate delinquency was made, and it was a burdensome procedure. So by adding another burdensome procedure, which then leads to this decision in the exile, we are adding another step to entering the country. My question is, Is it consistent with a moderate when we consider the whole operation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u67	A respectable president. It is in nature that prior to the implementation of regulations on the basis of law, as well as on the other hand. Of course, a senator knows, in such a legal examination, not only with local law but also with a constitution before signing the Regulation. This morning's government meeting just assumes the individual's duty, and that's where we assume it's then taken a look at the border. We still have no obligation to fly drivers. It's not yet. We haven't arranged that. But I agree with that. A senator how important it is when we are in some way close to something that could be viewed as privacy or individual position in this respect before governments as being very careful about the subject of viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u68	A respectable president. I've been disappointed with a few presidents not to have counted how many times I've been here, but it will be 22 times right now. I want to thank the council again for very good discussions. I think it's very important that we communicate on the measures under attack. There are, in fact, four factors to discuss at one time. It is the first place of the epidemic, second of which the premises within the country, that is, in the third place of the premise measures on the border and in the fourth place of vaccination. And all these elements play together in some way. As the situation is right now, we can be happy. We can be happy with the position we are in. We have learned in the epidemic that it is better to take this opportunity when there are reasons to be content with our position. We certainly do now, and there is reason to do so. It is a good look for vaccinations. We have a good, hard - working team to carry out the vaccinations. We have reason to be optimistic, but in the past, with regard to the delivery programmes of the substances. The situation of the epidemic is good and strong, and the social mood is very clear: we are going to win the fight against Covid-19.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u69	Mr. President. How do we make our community better? This is a question we should ask ourselves every day in this room. There are many ways to do that, and one of them I think is the way that is suggested in this bill, to reduce election age. Lowering election age makes society better for various reasons, including by weighing up the democratic palaces that are in this hall and appearing, e.g. in that after the last election, only 2.2% of Iceland's senators were under 30. It does not reflect the nation's age, nor does it place us in the world on average. Senators under 30 are about 2% worldwide. We are neither better nor worse than the rest of the world, although we expect this to be the front among the peers in having a young and fresh assembly, creative and fun. So it happened that every year, every year the Senate adds to itself, and now we, when a palace to the next election, is in the event that no member of Iceland is under 30. Thus, we are among the one - third district conventions worldwide, where there is no senator under 30. This is a problem that, as it turns out, might continue to progress rather than improve. You see, if we just look at the economic forecasts of the Hague today is 16% of the people in their 20's, but after 50 years, 11% of the people at that age. Why is this important? This is significant because members of the Parliament are not good enough to listen. If I knew a magic solution by making members of Congress more successful in listening to different viewpoints in the community, I would have presented a bill of that subject. But since that magic solution doesn't exist, there's a bill here to improve the two-year legal walk of law-enforcement people to a group of voters. By doing so, not only do politicians want to listen to younger voters or younger ones but they also have a group of people who are protected by the United Nations Children's Covenant, a powerful tool to make us feel sorry if we do not listen. It can simply direct its vote elsewhere. That's what I think would, for example. It's useful students who have spent the past few months experiencing their repeated and crystal - clear appeals for their secure production have not reached the ears of more parts of the council. Students talked about the need to increase the quality of student loans when new student loans were adopted in spring. It's been a while since, you know, the basic advance hasn't increased anything. Students talked about the importance of part-time students who lose their job because of the Covid pandemic could apply for spring unemployment. They cannot because they have not yet been listened to. Yet, these people are voters, so I turn them back, but this shows so well how a whole generation's cry can be turned aside when the most tests are made. So I mention another example, we all celebrate the natural, or most, I hope, that tomorrow is to vote on sexual privacy, the protection of people from digital sexual abuse. This is a problem that came to light with the tireless struggle of young girls, mostly six years ago. Six years ago, President. It took all the time between March 2015 and February 2021 for #frethenpple to finally reach the end of this chamber. Could this be because the voices that cried out were 15, 16 and 17 years old? I think it played in. But since we're talking about examples of young people's appeals, it's the fundamental reason why lowering election age can be beneficial, how it makes society better, because young people display over and over in a powerful way how it can be the driving force for change in society's scale that we as our older ones will never equal. I named here #frrethepple. You might also mention the pleas of young people for improving their mental - health systems. I believe that thanks to the progress achieved last year when psychological services were approved under the umbrella of health insurance. But it did not go better with listening, so they forgot to finance it. It can also be attributed to young people and to their struggle on the scale of climate discussion over the past few years and just a mutation in the discussion of a new generation and began telling older ones about the inactivity that this young generation has brought to the fore indecision. You see, President, although young people would come to a poll with selfish reasons, they would just vote out of their narrow view, it would be better simply because a narrow view of a 16 - year - old person today is a long - term basis, a person's viewpoint is likely to be part of this society at the end of the 21st century. Our developing up for a long time a just and sustainable society is their interests, even their own interests, but also makes society better. It is not unusual to mention the group that came to a meeting of the General and Education Committee this morning, the tenth school students, who formed our education system and set out a requirement to the government on how to improve the education system to bring them up on their own to deal with the world as it is, by improving the physical abilities of the world. Not only does building teach us to do things we never do but we also attach a light - cranium and what it is, that sex education prepares people to be responsible sexes, that financial locks are part of what is put into the basic school system, and perhaps above all, that the development of the education system is not just determined in councils or halls, but in active conversation with the users themselves, the students. We have agreed with the United Nations Children's Covenant, and we are to have these matters in much better shape. Of course, we should consult with young people when we discuss specific matters that concern their interests. But that's just not the case at all. However, countries that first took the step of reducing election age are countries in which consultation with young people is much more mature than in this country. In 2007, the decline in election age was first seen in Austria, but I would like to replace some words with Scotland because Scotland is a pretty good example and something we could imitate in various ways. At the turn of the century, Scotland gained increased self - control in Britain, and a part of it was setting up a council in Scotland to direct specific matters in that country. Before that assembly began in 1999, Scotland's public assembly began to operate because Scots said: "We are with the United Nations Children's Covenant. We're getting our own council. Is it not reasonable for your children to be also assigned to a council? Then it was just done. They are elected democratically, so they are authorized to be children. Children as representatives of their own ideality reflect various aspects of Scotland's Council. It meets regularly, on the average, three times a year, with opinions and appeals to the Council of Scotland, pushing on the adult population. The important thing is to control it, and it's organized by young men. That is why young people are influenced by young people. Because of this, the Scottish Parliament may have seemed normal when it came to paying a national law on Scotland's independence in 2014 that it would not be compared to the age 18 of election, as usual, but at 16 years of age. This may be normal because the possibility of independence in a land is so long - term that it is natural to associate it with the people who have the longest life to live with it. The conclusion was that it was so successful that the Scottish Parliament decided to expand it and has reduced the election age at all the administrative points controlled by Scotland itself. The only thing that still hangs in 18 years is the election for the British Parliament in London because it has more powers. Scotland's positive experience has influenced Wales, who for the first time in May will be selected for the assembly with a new reduced 16 year election age. This matter we have in front of us has entered the Hall of Congress several times before. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, it was in 2007 that vice-consister Hlynur Hallsson proposed that the government prepare for a fall in election age. Since then, it seems like eleven to me, has not always reached the platform, but at 148 C.E., it got quite far. In March 2018, we discussed the decline of election age in rural governments solely because of the need to change simple laws, but not in the constitution as suggested here, and then we reached the important milestone of voting on the matter. You see, Mr President once, the General Assembly of Iceland has shown its position in this case, although we have failed to complete it here on the spring of 2018. The outcome was quite clear. 43 senators voted with a fall in election age. 29 Parliamentaries supported the regulations of that bill. The difference between them would probably take effect but some other time. 43 senators out of 63 are a pretty good part. This is the only attitude we've seen in this room and hopefully it'll stay with the bill we're discussing today. I'm not going to have this much further, Mr. President, except to mention two or three things specifically. First of all, this issue is presented repeatedly after the young ones'own pleas. This is not taken out of the open air. It is a requirement that has been established by a variety of young people's organization, such as the National Society of Peers and various local juvenile advices or various institutions and communities. This is not to say that all young people are asking for it because they have opinions as they do in all other age groups, but it comes from which pressure comes. We who speak for the case here at the council Hall are merely responding to the plea. Then I'd like to mention that elections are learned behavior. Being an active and powerful voter is something that gets in our mouth. That's why it's important to get along well, not just because we're off the election age, but in general when we accept new voters. Hence, democracies need to be improved in education, so the groups need to be more diligent in directing their words to and speaking with young people and showing that they were listened. If people after the election find that the party is going against what they say before elections, then the trust we need to have is undermined. On the other hand, by trusting young ones to show us what they want, we build trust because trust builds confidence. As we all sit in this hall, as we all do in Iceland, we have made a commitment to the United Nations Children's Covenant to listen to young people and to allow their views to influence our decision - making. For the formality of children to make decisions in the paediatric covenant, there is no lower limit of age. However, as people get older, the requirement is greater, and the more formal participation is required. Therefore, I believe by accepting the decline of election age, by completing the bill for the constitution right here before the council, by giving 16 and 17 years of age a formal power to demonstrate their opinion in a formal way toward the politicians, we would finally be fulfilling this aspect of the United Nations Children's Covenant with some dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u70	A respectable president. I think it's a matter of progress and justice, and thank you very much. A traveling overseer for his fine history. You get a bit involved in the discussion about this matter that some people want to start worrying that others will have the same rights that they themselves enjoy. It is a common practice in discussions about rights and justice that rights should be set aside for certain groups that deserve them rather than others. In this case, however, I feel alone that 16 - year - olds should enjoy the right to enter the table simply because they have become taxpayers. They have become taxpayers in this country, we take from them their income, and we defend them part of their income for society, and of course they should have their say on how this is being spent. In fact, I admit that I do not necessarily trust young people to choose well and wisely rather than anyone else. Like everyone else, they just prefer in various ways. I'd like to use this opportunity to ask you why. A senator: At times, one hears that 16 - year - olds have the right to be at peace with the political bitch, and I want something to respond to. A senator at that point. Do you think it's right not to vote?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u71	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asked about people's rights to be at peace with political efforts. I think it's something that doesn't change in itself, even though we're starting an election age ourselves. The fact is, political parties, so to speak, do not go unnoticed by children today, as do other members of the community, and may even be directed to them at times. This may not necessarily be negative. Do we not want people to have an opportunity to form an opinion on the main affairs of society at one time? It's just part of being a part of society wanting to control how society develops. It is our right not to take advantage of that opportunity. However, I believe that having an election age 16 or 18 years does not depend on anything real. I think there's a problem we won't have to deal with. On the contrary, more rich and better education can be offered to younger voters, e.g. Those in high school who have often been called on, but school may even be vulnerable to allowing such discussions to come into their mouth for some reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u72	Mr. President. I thought that was a good argument too. A senator in his story earlier when he mentioned the climate. It is the largest of today's affairs, and it is of particular interest to this group, not to us, who will not live up to the threats to come. I'd like to later answer my question. A senator concluded his point and asked him to consider this point of education a little further. The school system should equip us to be useful and good citizens, good citizens and good citizens, our community, and help us develop the ability to think about national matters and to express ourselves about them. Then, rather than referring to some kind of inculturation based on some form of ideologies, I refer to a different ideologies and to take sides with that idea from its background and other ideas about everything. Could it be that there is a bit of a lack of these conditions in our school system, that there is a lack of debate within school, that students are trained to speak for and against matters, and that they are trained to take sides in politics and get interested in politics, and that some such education could be some kind of prelude to success? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u73	Mr. President. Yes, increasing democratic education in the school system is a key factor, not just to achieve a successful fall in elections, but to succeed in the future development of society. It's something that's been shown every time we've sent bills about the decline of election age to comment. In every review from young people, it is pointed out that democratic education in the school system is far too demeaning, mismanagement of schools. A small school is good for her, but in most schools, teachers once have time to do this properly. Democracy Education needs to be fixed, not just by formal time, but by the democracy of the school system because that community is to reflect the democratic community of Iceland. I simply agree with the senator. This need to be large, and it would be a natural continuation of this bill's approval to engage in an enormous effort to promote democratic education at all levels.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u74	President. The democracy should be for everyone, but we also need to learn how it works. There is nothing simple or probably about the way we use or practice democracy. That is exactly what we need to practice and feed it to learn, for it varies, as it were. The community has developed faster and faster as the past has passed, and the democracy does so together with more communicators, with a better understanding of how, for example, this is done. sexuality works, and other factors that influence how we choose to set laws in our country and how we set priorities for our money and the like. The democracy must be for everyone, and there are some foundations that tell us how democracy should be practiced. We take into account the United Nations Children's Covenant, which is, of course, legalized in the land, and we are to follow up on those who do not have rights to participate. Children's words, despite their limitations, should be taken into account and tried to provide them with additional rights beyond the age limit of 18 years, there's nothing wrong with giving just a voice and a vote to younger ones. I believe that it may go even lower, much lower, really. But I understand that maybe it is necessary to take it in step because we need to learn about the arrangement, to learn how it affects society. As noted in a periphery, it has been done elsewhere and I would like to take those steps, and longer steps, at least The step that the election would be for people 16 in the year, not to tear down rivers, as they watch through, for example. High school and high school. It is interesting to examine the principal textbook of basic schools, the so - called primary 2011 textbook. It discusses relatively carefully what a student should know when finishing high school. He is to be able to make informed decisions in a democracies community. If high school students are to have achieved that ability, why don't we allow them to use it by participating in general elections? In a prehistoric speech, there was mention of a vote on a comparable matter, a decline in the election age of the state government. Surely there, 43 senators voted with that reduction. That doesn't quite tell the whole story. What may have been lacking in the talk was that only one member was at the convention, and nine did not vote but were not at the convention. The overwhelming majority of the senators who voted took a vote and said yes. Ten were then absent, so the proportion of 43 of 63 was actually much lower. When the vote was paid, the ratio was much higher. I have previously explained in this public talk what members of Congress really do according to a constitution. It obligates us or, in effect, the freedom that we perform our tasks solely on the basis of our convictions. I act here according to my convictions, not by any rules of voters or others. This is just my conviction when I press a button, vote or in any other act of the council. In fact, it means that after all, I follow my conscience. No one senator can be an expert on all matters. When I discuss matters that are not of particular interest at all but are given expert opinion, I use my conscience to weigh which expert opinion I consider to be helpful in following and making laws or giving money and the like. If we really want senators who follow their convictions and conscience in the simplest way, we should have a plagion chamber of five-year-olds in my opinion. You can find few who have the same sincere conviction and conscience as five years olds. In any case, it would be very good to have a special youth council to hear their voices. Another reason why I'm saying this is that there has been a special explanation for the world site called ELI5 or 'Explain Like I'm 5◯, by permission of a president, explaining this phenomenon as if I were five years old. I think that's very relevant to the senator's work. We deal very often with relatively complex technical solutions, and it really needs to explain them to us as if we were five years old. When this is not the case, the technical explanations are often not for amateurs. They may be tried to simplify them to adults, but very often they will not succeed. We are very often exposed to a number of special cases, which can lead to a very technical misunderstanding and a very boring misunderstanding. That's why I have, for example. it is accepted that the Constitution and the change in human language are being made, the technical interpretation of it is limited to that, but the lyrics and the constitution are not legal, behind which there are certain interpretations. But this is what you want to start with, that law and constitution are available to everyone. A bill like this, turning down the election age, really helps. We need a much better approach to voters, and, of course, the younger members of a democracies community, on their terms. I think that'll make the discussion much better. I've had a lot of trouble being on a Senate committee, and I'm telling you, I'm lying. But lying to children is somehow much worse. I don't know if the same people would have had a conscience to do that, perhaps. If so, it is much more important that mine knows that at least I can be responsible for it myself. That may be where we come to the key point. Many feel that people have somehow not received a diploma in being able to participate in democracy. I disagree, for as I mentioned, we learn only when we start to participate. Therefore, we have to simply lower the election age to the standards we are, for example, our own. in the main course of education and ensuring that the qualifications are met or completed that we put in the primary course, that people who go through primary school get a real democracies, a test of every kind of education, not only on book basis, but also with real projects, with real problems such as those mentioned in the Shipping talk about our system and the minor from Hafnarfjörður who suggested how to do better, how to do more, how to do more, different. These are ways, these are groups, these are the methods we want to activate. We want everyone to have a voice. If we try to prevent groups, especially minorities, from having voices, we are not democracy. It's only according to the definition. Although not everyone has a formal voting rights, everyone should be involved. So, of course, I support this bill, that we lower the election age. I would like it to be even lower, so that most people who don't have a vote and that most people would have a formal right to say what they believe, follow their own convictions, follow their conscience by pressing a button and saying yes or no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u75	President. I'm not going to spend long in a talk here. I'm just going to state that in general, I agree with the subject discussed here. It is based on a very solid foundation of the bill as the current highest. Prime Minister Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has worked many years ago and has been put forward here, from me, this year until before. The first importer, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, for my memory two years, is about reducing the election year in the rural election because it is easier to do so. Laws can be changed without changing the constitution. As we know, this matter has to be done, and so will the next assembly, but it is good to work at many fronts at once. In order to achieve the same goal, we have once again submitted this old matter of the left-hand green... of a change in the U.S. election law. I admire those who are great followers of this case to support that case too so that we can work together to reduce the election age.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u76	Thank you. I'm glad this bill is presented. As Piranha says, it doesn't matter where good things come from. I'm happy about this because in Iceland there's been a bit of inconsistencies in what I like to call age law. In this country, 14 - year - olds, we begin paying taxes at 16 years of age, get married at 18 years of age, and buy alcohol at 20 years of age. The political tendency to decline the election age for a single two years raises some questions, mainly with the fears of the old groups or the conservative groups. Is there anxiety? What would happen if the election age was reduced? Like what? paritaprevir Andrés mentioned earlier came to a meeting of the General and Education Committee yesterday of our basic school students who make up our education system to present their information about education that is currently available. I thought it was very helpful comments from the kids, and it shows that we need to listen to our users in order to create a system that suits our users. Their presentation came, for example. until they are learning what I learned 20 years ago in so - called computer science. I wouldn't have thought this would be the case if kids who are developing within this system right now had not come and told us about it. This is one example of many showing that we need to listen to the younger age groups. I believe that lower election age could increase the interest of young people in politics that has diminished over the last few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u77	The president wants to make two quick comments to a talk. Senator. First, before discussing the matter, address the president. The other is that already the dog. The members of Parliament are mentioned on their name to use a full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u78	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying I'm sorry for being a little late but I didn't know how fast it was going. However, I wanted to come here and say some words about this matter that I believe is important. I believe it is very important that we allow young people to participate earlier in molding society, molding attitudes that govern each country, and taking part in molding society's rules. I believe that 16 years old people are no worse equipped to take sides on various basics. I think that there is in general nothing worse or better in life than many of my age. Then I think it is very important that, within the political parties, as well as most of the views that come to pass in the political work of the country. The political groups themselves invite young people to work, and in increasing numbers we set goals and rules to listen carefully to what young people say and to encourage them to participate in various ways. So if we at the same time do not want to give them real opportunities to influence them, it will blow. This is essential to my mind. It should also be kept in mind that the population's age mix is gradually changing. Happily, most of us achieve quite a bit more age than before. We can say that in recent decades and decades many years have joined a group of voters who are advanced in age. Therefore, the central or middle of the voter group has been moving forward. It has been moving toward older generations at the expense of younger ones. I think that's also very important that we try to match this trend and let younger people know that the system on which our democracy is built, that people can express their views by their votes. Then, further evidence can be given by pointing out that a young voter in years is choosing - let's say so in itself, he has a broad horizon in mind that he is molding his future for a very long time as we, as our age progressively cross in this respect, have developed our future, perhaps for many years. A narrower perspective, though all of us want to be open - minded and feel that most of us can identify with others and think of matters that may not concern us directly. Yet, this is a fact. That's why I think it's wise to try to give young people more to each other. It's on the basis that I think it's the right thing to do with the bill and that there's no danger at all, no harm at all. I think we should trust young people. It often has a different view of life than we as older ones, an attitude that then changes. Of course, I probably think differently now than I did when I was 16. That is not to say that my thinking toward society when I was 16 years old was something worse than the thinking I have today, much like that. I think we need to have as many views in managing our country, and that is, of course, by the arrangement we have through the political parties and then by election for positions of authority in the community, whether it's in the countryside or by the government itself. I support this case wholeheartedly, ending one of its carriers, and I believe it would be a step forward if it was accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u79	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a new law on immigrants'case. This law went into effect on November 28, 2012, but their goal is to promote a community where all can be active participants regardless of nationality. This aim is achieved by integrating the best interests of immigrants in all policies, administration and public services, promoting wide cooperation, promoting education and sharing of information, and supporting the research and development projects on the affairs of immigrants. This bill presents two changes to the law, one of the changes to the role of a multi-ethnic facility involving the concerted welcome of refugees and the change of the commission to the embargo council. A respectable president. On the basis of foreigners, we accept people who come to the country and apply for international protection and/or emancipation on welfare grounds. In recent years, there have been significant changes in the number of individuals who come to the country on their own and who receive international protection or leave by humanitarian grounds. In 2020, some 630 individuals, who came here on their own protection in Iceland, were protected by some 230 individuals in 2018. This has been done, not by a formal welcome system for refugees who come to the country on their own, but only for refugees who come here by government to cooperate with the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, which is called in the daily speaking of legislators. The explanation is that until recently, there was a relatively small group. It has been well established to welcome refugees who are being offered by the government, but it is no less necessary to provide those who come here on their own and have received international protection or leave by humanitarian grounds to take their first steps in society with increased social counseling, social education, and especially Icelandic education. In accordance with the government's treaties and the implementation of a strategy on the affairs of immigrants, refugees, regardless of whether they come on their own way, through international protection or human-interesting warrants, or by the concerted welcome of refugees. A report by the European Commission on the concerted reception of refugees was published in January 2019, where it was proposed a compatible welcome system for refugees and is the forwarding of this bill. The proposals of the Committee can be divided into three main provisions. First, the Department of Social Affairs negotiates contracts with reception companies for increased assistance and services with refugees, including those involved. in appointing a speech manager who is responsible for securing a partnership in a service based on an individual plan. Second, increasing the role and education of community education and Icelandic education for refugees, providing advice on education and employment, as well as help with job search and other activities. Third, there is an increased role in the multicultural community that involves linking refugees and welcome groups who have made a deal with the Ministry of Social Affairs. With the bill, the Multicultural Network is entrusted with additional roles in line with the Commission's proposal for the concerted welcome of refugees. A multicultural site is assigned to give professional advice to local communities regarding the receipt of refugees and the education for professionals. The new role of the Agency must be maintained on the invitation of hosting and services, based on the available information and on specific factors, such as the possibility of learning and access to necessary health services, employment opportunities and transportation. Thus, a multicultural site must have access to the necessary information, on the other hand, on the part of receptional groups and on the other hand, information from refugees itself and information from the Foreign Institute, as appropriate. It is important that the authority of the Multi-Creation Centre on Information and Media is clearly stated so that the Agency can perform this new role. Examples of such information are basic information about individuals with education, family interests, previous employment, future expectations, and health information. A number of rural society have already declared an interest in participating in the one year's experience, and the Department of Social Affairs has made negotiations with rural society to further support individuals who have been protected in this country. The project is about to begin, but with the limitations of the mass civilization site, there is not yet a necessary source for the processing of personality information that will lead to a less targeted reception. It is important that the bill be accepted, so a multicultural site can play the role of linking individuals to groups of welcome, depending on both the individual's needs and the individual abilities of the local community. The bill also suggests a change in Article 4. The law on immigrants'Council. As a result of the decline of the Ministry of Health at the end of 2018 at the Ministry of Health and the Department of Social Affairs, no longer has a legal representative from the Council of Health. Since its role is to promote coordination and agreement between recruitment, rural society and the management board, it is considered important that the health secretary's representative be seated there and therefore suggested that the health minister be appointed by a representative of the council. The bill was presented by government consultations and received two reviews. The comments observed were taken into account when considering what could be done and the changes made to the bill in question. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u80	Mr. President. It's a bill. It's a TV. Minister is so small, as you might say. It involves a special bath for the arrangement presented here, a quick recovery to the work of a multicultural facility and a series of immigrants'councils. This bill is about the same time as the National Institute of Iceland reveals that nowhere in the North countries are as many applications for international protection as in this country according to an appeal number. According to this information from the Agency, there are six times the number of people in Norway and Denmark, six times the number in Finland, and 50% more than in Sweden. This information seems to involve two things, and I want to look for the highest opinion. Minister; on the one hand, that this arrangement of ours has only exploded and that we are following some completely different course than our companions, our neighbors in the North countries. [[Flmrh.: You know this is wrong.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u81	A respectable president. Hv. A senator wondered if we are going to follow this bill completely apart from the North countries. Here we are discussing a bill about changing import legislation that applies to the services given to people who have been given a position here must be in the community. We are not dealing with the alien law as such in this bill. If we compare what is being proposed in this bill, and in fact, it is being done today on the basis of local social services that are being developed more closely in this bill. This bill is really just a matter of what it is. A senator said, to coordinate the position of a multicultural facility and thus create a better place to do his job. If we compare it to all the rest of the North countries, we're just doing the exact same thing, unless we had to do it here for a year where other countries are stuck for two or three years. We're also making it optional for our communities to have a share in this while it is, for example. not optional in certain neighboring countries. The communities there should only be involved. So I don't know why. A senator in charge of this matter. In fact, he'll be better able to explain it, so the person standing here understands it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u82	Mr. President. I thought I had made it perfectly clear that we're here discussing a bill that's all over itself very narrow, and it's all about very specific matters. But it's a sort of fine tuning of a machine that's naturally just cracked. And that's my question to the highest. Minister. I'm inside a minister to see if he doesn't agree with the need to discuss policy. Then I'm not talking about the arrival of my unit, but of the group of litigators, to discuss it on a much broader ground. And the figures available here, and these are not the points from the Foreign Institute, include significant messages, one that this welcome system seems to be completely cracked compared with these high numbers in comparison, and the other, we seem to follow a policy of the whole group, on a broad basis, all other than has been adopted elsewhere in the North countries, at least most of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u83	A respectable president. What is the uniform assembly of refugees, the bill we address here on changing immigrants? We are not dealing with the alien law as such. We're discussing any service our community has decided to receive, whether it's capitalists or people who are applying for protection, etc. It is about what service we will perform to these individuals. Will we help them in Icelandic education? Will we help them to adjust to the community? That's what this uniform reception is all about, something we've done on the basis of law on the 1991 rural social services and are now moving it into another form that the Multicultural President takes care of this. This is what it's all about. It's the past and the fact that here are groups at the General Assembly who disagree that we assist the individuals in adapting to the local community and having received a position here. I can't understand these speculations and media coverage of this issue that recently led me to a group in the General Assembly that doesn't want it. That's what this is all about. We're synchronating what's going on in all the other states of the North. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u84	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. He brings this case here for the second time, as he rightly mentioned. What I wanted to do in response to the highest. Minister is the cost. As we sit on a budget board, we need to think of every dollar right now, with the huge debt of state funds. This adjustment, a fundamental change, is being carried out to vagrants the same service as those allowed here for international protection. Last year, we hosted 85 guessworkers and 631 inmates who were granted leave. How can the highest. The minister said that the cost of this bill is only 24 million when it is clear that we have to provide a total of 631 people in the same service that we provide to 85 individuals when we receive those who are in need of a greeting? [[The president calls.]] I can't get this to work, boss. Minister. I think the cost of this bill will be precisely exceeded because the law says that the cost of this bill has to be determined and, therefore, I think that is completely incomplete. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u85	A respectable president. The current cost of a government fund is reimbursed at rural society for the financial assistance of refugees. It's been with the people and it's at the 15th floor. legal in the 1991 community service so every year the government supports this series. Here at the National Parliament, we have agreed that we would like to assist the individuals who are being given the position, receive protection here - we are not talking about those who have not been given positions and have not been protected, we are talking about individuals who have already received a position in the community - we are adapting to the Icelandic community. We want to help them learn English. We want to help them get on their feet. However, it seems to be changing in the presentation of a single political party at the General Assembly, the class called the Central Party. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u86	Mr. President. V.E.G. Minister has not answered my questions. [[Flmrh.: I have already answered that question.]] It's not the same cost, tops. Minister. I've received these numbers from the General Information Service. Resentees do not get the same service as do those who suffer from portents. There's a difference, a financial difference in the figures being made. This bill is faulty because it cannot provide for the cost of these things, the basic change to bring in the restitutions that are granted the same service as the greeting. V.E.G. A minister has to submit a cost analysis, a perfect cost analysis, how much it costs. There is absolutely no reason for this matter to continue. As I rightly said before, we need to look at every cent in the budget and financial work because the debt of the state's funds has become that way. Yet, here is a bill that is said to cost at least 24 million, but it can cost hundreds of millions. V.E.G. A minister has to explain these numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u87	A respectable president. I don't really know how to answer this, but this bill is the cost. I used to shave in the way these funds have been running through rural social services. We're evening the service. We're doing less for eaters, we're expanding services for other people who come in here and get reimbursement on other grounds, who've already got a position in the country. It's not about how many people we're going to take into the country or how we're going to do it, it's about foreign languages and alien laws. Here we are talking about what a service person needs to adapt to an Icelandic community when they are in. It is, in fact, more important than tears than any other, that there is a political party here at the International Parliament who does not want to have a clear view of the way we are going to meet these people and help them to adapt to Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]] Everything else is innuendo and outback as a matter of course. A senator is trying to serve here on a table for political purposes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u88	How much does the bill cost?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u89	Mr. President. This is the most excellent bill in my opinion. In Reykjavík a few days ago, where the minister participated in this project and provides a considerable amount of money. There is nothing more to see and to hear than that this institution is to take care of everything between the heavens and the earth that affects immigrants. And I ask you, are there any formal relationships between this institution and a multicultural facility, formal cooperation, or something common? Would it not have been more wise to work on strengthening one institution, a multicultural facility, that could have branches here and where we live in the country where immigrants are populous instead of opening up yet another organization on the same project? Is this not possible, especially in the light of the fact that a multicultural facility has been living for decades, or for many years? Neither are these unsolved practices and unsolvable provision for public funds, the highest. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. In the bill we're discussing here, we are strengthening a multicultural facility. We are hiding a more active role in linking communities with refugees. I'd like to then say that it's not a government agency. This is an experiment project for a year, a cooperation project between all parties, including a multicultural site, to provide immigrants with a better service. In fact, it is based on a synopsis that was approved here at the General Assembly. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé was the first transporter to be taken. This is now so that once the Council has approved something, the Commission must apply it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u91	Mr. President. No one wants to do me the way of immigrants, and the service of the good. I would like to ask how a minister visualizes the work of a multicultural site in the near future and the scope of the work and what this increase should be, in particular, and in the importance of the ministry. What is a changed and enhanced role? For example, if a minister realizes that a multicultural facility can take on greater and greater roles, about teaching? This is very small in the report on the professional presentation and composition of employees and on the job centre. For example, he could envision a multicultural facility that works in more places than perhaps. Just on the ice, for example. in connection with a work agency in many parts of the country? [[The president calls.]] Or does he see the possibility that the Headquarters of the Multihuman Park could move away from Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u92	A respectable president. With this bill, we are strengthening the operation of the Multicultural Network. We are assigning the added role when it comes to the interaction between refugees and their rural communities, where they intend to live and form the services and couples together. This is what the bill is about. It's about giving it to the House of England, and it's getting better. The person standing here sees that the Presidential Society will continue to play a key role in this and will continue to have his work posts at the Ísafjörður. A new director has just been hired there, it was now only weeks ago, and she is expected to be doing her job from Iceland and that the Agency will continue to have a work station there. So the current minister's or current government policy is not to be adjusted in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u93	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister to Métropolitan. As I understand it, it is the task of the Multihuman Park to accept the people who have already received some kind of public position within the system, i.e. Whether it is hostilities, takeaways, or people who have received the approved application for international protection. I wanted to wonder if there was some sort of discussion within the Ministry. Ministers to expand the area of mass civilizations to include people who come here without any public position, i.e. People who come to the country and apply either for asylum or housing or for international protection. It's not exactly a matter that depends on the Ministry. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u94	A respectable president. We have a dual role here, i.e. The foreigners'law and the Foreign Organization govern who will be given positions in the land. Then, after the person has got a position in the country, social services take over and assist that person in adjusting to Icelandic society, finding a home, a job, learning Icelandic, and participating in society. It is the role of an immigrant law, the Department of Social Affairs, the Social Services Act, and the resulting multicultural centres. So there's really a clear line between them, and I don't see it that we're going to do something more blurred. Then we'd be doing it for a while. paritaprevir The middle party said before this bill would do, i.e. mixing different things. I can't imagine it going to happen, but it's absolutely clear that there are laws on the affairs of foreigners, and the Ministry of Justice is taking the position of these people before they get a position in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u95	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. What I'm trying to do is, you know, that's what I'm talking about. A minister speaks of as a clear legal reason, but that is what I would call a certain legal void. Indeed, a foreign - language agency and a foreign law will include people who come and apply for what kind of position here on earth. But the truth is, and I know the highest. Therefore, a minister does not dictate that treatment within the Foreign Institute may range from one year to two years. So while people are waiting for a demonstration or approval of their application, there is nothing within the social system that seems to catch them. For example, are children who have been waiting with their parents for two years after receiving consent or rejection, who have been allowed to go to school, or who have experienced the security of children during the two years?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u96	A respectable president. The short answer is that individuals who have not been appointed here are under the supervision of the Foreign Institute and Justice Authority. No permanent adjustment is made to the society that this bill turns to until the individual has received the ultimate answer that he can remain in the country and qualify as such. Then the system we are using to help people adjust to society, to learn Icelandic, and to all the things that we stress in everyday speech. At any given moment, however, we need to try as much as we can to shorten this treatment period, and I agree with it. A senator says it's taking too long. But I was careful to stop drawing a clear line between those lines because once people get a position in the country, they are doing everything they can to help them adjust to it. But if individuals have not already received it, they simply have not come to the point where society should intervene in the most radical way they have received a position.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u97	V.E.G. President. It's a wonder this case brings up again a doll. This does not appear in the Government Constitution before this assembly, and this is in no way in harmony with the reality that we see, for the minister has no answers other than trying to stamp critics with coverts and to establish opinions. In view of decades of experience, decades of experience, bitter experience, such as the government, to form in Denmark, is going against what other North countries are doing and are doing. The Icelandic government has no control over this project as it is currently. Why, then, to suggest that it will be done far more difficult than at the same time by effect, as cost, and that it will claim to render to many more of the same services that are reserved for us now, a group of Macedonians, at least nothing or to be appreciated by some other minister? The result is this bill. This is not the way to help as many people as possible need help. On the contrary, Mr. President. As relief agencies and even the European Union itself have pointed out, the majority of those who apply for asylum are not their own refugees but those who travel and come for various reasons, of course, primarily to seek better lifestyles. Iceland has made a very clear definition of who has the right to asylum here at the same time as other North countries have gone in the opposite direction. It seems that humans simply do not realize how this works. It knows the government of other countries, and it has been very much discussed there, especially since 2015, when there was an increase in applications. Crime gangs, often high - risk gangs, trade trips to the West, advertise them on community markets, hold Facebook pages, distribute leaflets on street corners, and observe very carefully which destinations are the most popular and which destinations are best at that destination. In addition, even those who have been taken safely to send them on a life - threatening journey, selling them false hopes. Iceland alone in the north seems to lack understanding how this works, the entire context of these issues. Now it has become that there are six times as many vacations in Iceland as there are in Denmark and Norway - even more than in Sweden. This did not happen automatically. On the other hand, this has been due to the message and order changes that the North countries, especially Norway and Denmark, have been sending out, and this also happened because of the messages that have been received repeatedly from Iceland, where Iceland is actually advertised as its destination. [[Middle-class?]] Once the situation has turned out to be the opposite of the rest of the North countries at the same time because they are hardening their rules, they are putting a big red ring around Iceland as a promising destination for those planning these trips. In fact, some years ago, the Danish government went so far as to advertise in the Middle East that those who sought refuge there would be given their belongings. It was a very long way in most people's minds, and so did I. But I guess they never intended to walk all the way through it. The purpose, however, was to send out the message that Denmark was not a place where people could expect all the free service that those who had tried to sell had led people to believe. A few years ago, Finns found that spontaneous applications and not just applications were received but, rather, in Finland, at 50,000 to 60,000 Iraq. The people could not understand what had happened until they learned that what they considered a relatively small change in the immigrant law in that country had brought a stream that had previously reached Belgium. Here, however, we are not making a slight change. Here we are dealing with a fundamental change that involves not giving to those who come here and get refuge on some basis all the services offered to the people we invite to the country as eaters. Iceland has prided herself to welcome the people we're inviting here, but this is about to cover the numbers, the hundreds of people who are going to be so probable thousands, are going to be approved here. Danish officers, socialists in Denmark, have published policies on immigrants that aim to learn from experience, not just from recent years of experience or memory, but from experience in the past few decades. This trend is particularly focused on directing people, directing them into a natural course, i.e. that they are in charge of being invited to the country. Even a few weeks ago, the prime minister of Denmark went so far as to describe the goal of no one seeking refuge in Denmark. The Dans will continue to take in the eaters, but they themselves want to control who is invited to the country. They do not want Denmark to become the destination for criminal activity that sells people to hope and hope. In fact, Danir is setting in motion a welcome station for refugees in Africa or the Middle East. The policy also goes on with the importance of adaptation. It refers to real adjustment to the community, that those who are invited to Denmark are adapted to the principles and values of society. It will be easier to refer to those who have committed crimes away than it has been a problem dealing with them in Iceland and in more lands. The conclusion of a dance class was this, and they describe it as a powerful welfare system and the opening of the border that had taken place in immigrants as incompatible. A strong welfare system could not be maintained and the land could be opened at the same time. Although Danish officers have long felt that they were the keepers of the welfare system, they realize that if there is a strong welfare system, there is a need for access to that system. Meanwhile, it's going the opposite way here in Iceland. This is followed by repeated reviews by the Dublins Protocol, which did not occur without reason because participation in Schengen is entirely different. If the Dybris protocol is not respected, Schengen is actually working in one way or the other. It has also been repeated in welcoming people who have already received asylum in other parts of Europe. At the north coast of France, there are a number of refugees, many of whom have already found refuge in France, but they want only to go to Britain, where they feel that their interests are better off than in France. And how would this, this space, the fact that the Dublin Protocol is overlooked, the fact that refuge is granted even if a refuge has been provided elsewhere, compares with what is being planned for the bill discussed here. This would mean that not only would Iceland be able to get a good start on the map but it would also be with those in other European countries who see the benefits of crossing the open border in Scherenn to Iceland where they have more demands of service than in the country that gave them asylum. In other words, the impact of this legislation, if the bill is legal, will be largely increased by the large number of people who travel to Iceland and the relatively beyond the North countries, still increase it. Obviously, though by some strange and incomprehensible means, the cost is ignored by means of the bill. It has high costs and it will have an impact, including the ability to welcome people, including That's why we're all invited to come here. But this also affects our ability to help elsewhere, for while governments in many Western lands are willing to show their kindness by their actions at home, they are greatly lacking in providing assistance where it is most useful. Lebanon has taken in more refugees than most other countries around the world. To a large extent, a country that has gone through tremendous hardship, brutal civil war, and economic collapse is left alone to care for its refugees. Of course, support is given, but not enough to enable the Finnish government to carry out this great task. Actually, Turkey, on account of its estate, has also taken on a large number of refugees, where governments went to threaten Europe by opening up the current to Europe if the European Union did not pay. So that all of these European leaders'declarations, that they were welcome, proved to be no more meaningful than to be chosen to pay than to let the Turkey open. What we see is an enormous subject, and therefore we must look to the facts and base the solutions on them so that the funds we have for our provision will be greatly increased to the people in need, to the extent possible, to benefit those most in need of help. However, the arrangement suggested here makes it more difficult for us to help people. In effect, those who are disfellowshipped will not be given the privilege of service and will encourage those who are less qualified to serve in it. This is a fact facing people in other lands and has long been doing. Other countries have learned from experience and are now taking steps contrary to what the European government offers. Other countries with their methods, such as Danir and Danish prowess, will do much more for those most in need of help than the Icelandic government, through the virtual, insurmountable virtualness shown in this bill. Sad to say, even if the effects of this become evident quickly, there will be a long time before the Icelanders take action and learn from experience. This shows the experience of others. Why can't we try to learn from her?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u98	A respectable president. I don't need a minute to review everything that is worth discussing further in your speech. Senator. But I may review it in a talk after what I have to check on her. Now he talked. A member of the cryogenics and the cry - inspiring system, the United Nations and the like, and seemed to believe that it would be better to have an organization on the move, when people need a place to be at peace, and to have security in things that are not necessarily available in the streets. I wondered, then, if it had become that way. The members of the Central Party would be supporting the United Nations's approval of the organized and regular transport of people in English known as Global Compact for Safety, Orderly and Regression, which we have called the Marrakesh release, but still have. She was very opposed by members of the Central Party. Its focus is on trying to make people feel safer and more organized to avoid all the problems that go unorganized and unnecessary injuring them. It's turned into a change of course. The members of the Central Party agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u99	Mr. President. Instead of giving an answer to something I said in my talk, there is some difficulty. A senator to some point of view about something quite different. As with other members of the Central Party, we have the desire to contribute to the safety of those in need. This, in addition, shows the experience. In 2015, as the tide of refugees and other travelers grew tremendously, I made a tremendous effort to meet that situation, and these measures were not the least to increase the safety of refugees. So I'm sorry to be such a pimp. A senator often manages. However, it is clear that if people want maximum safety for refugees, they say that the Germans wanted maximum security, why don't they simply let the people bring in a plane? Many of these people pay far more to be smuggled into the country than to have a plane ticket. I see why. A senator left with this question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u100	A respectable president. I got it. I got it. A senator to look up the talks of his colleagues on this agreement in his day. She was highly objected, while the foundation of misunderstandings and myths and nonsense, as it were hoped and referred to. I'm here to ask because of what. A senator went into the distinction between an unorganized journey, such as the much of the security system, where people on the road are looking for shelter, and an organized organization of the United Nations. A senator is in favor of the organized system. This caught my attention because of the opposition of the Central Party members to the good issue approved by the United Nations, called Marrakesh's release. It's also interesting to me that when I read this case, I, by the way, seem to read something completely different from that. A senator is talking about. It's a very good thing, and I don't see how any members of the Central Party could object. I have not truly understood it, and I have been listening here all day and reading the bill. There seems to be one common feature of the affairs that the Central Party is in opposition to when it comes to foreign affairs and that is to warn foreigners. Whether it's about increasing the organization, safety, or helping people to adjust to society, English, get on their way to become taxpayers and citizens, the middle party is against it. Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u101	Mr. President. It's like the highest. The president may have heard us here to listen to a very good example, a good example because of how miserable it was, the methods that those who do not trust in to discuss such matters as these. An immigrant used to prevent discussion. Hv. A senator has given no criticism to the arguments I presented in my speech. He starts talking about the Marrakesh convention, and he's giving it up. The members of the Central Party met with some of the points regarding the safety of refugees. [[Is that a change?]] What kind of bullshit is this, Mr. President? Is it not possible to discuss this group of subjects in a way that is different from the pride and complicity shown by members of Pirata here repeatedly in the General Assembly Meeting?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u102	President. I'm thinking of giving a what. A senator's chance to do what he thinks he wants to do, to participate in the discussion, and I'm going to ask him not to be the coward to cut himself off from my questions. That's what I'm talking about. A senator objecting to the fact that a multicultural facility gives professional counsel and counseling to the reception of refugees? That's what I'm talking about. A member of the United States against the idea of bringing refugees who decide not to accept an invitation to live in a company of receptions to inform them of the general community service? That's what I'm talking about. A senator objecting to holding a multicultural site and enforcing an agreement between the members of the party that is coming to welcome refugees in Iceland? That's what I'm talking about. A senator resists the use of information from Foreign Institutes, local societies and other government agencies, as appropriate, or against the fact that a multi-ethnic setting is permitted to share relevant information and counselling to parties? That's what this bill is all about. And I'm waiting. A senator will answer these questions if he dares.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u103	Mr. President. Here, a senator who a few days ago saw reason to come on a talk chair to call himself and his people because he was going to speak in a calm and moral way toward others. Then he begins his answer to accuse me of cowardly conduct, hot in hammer, and rusting out questions. I, to the extent that I was able to apply a thread by the wind. A senator, can comfort him by believing that keeping track of these matters and providing information is very desirable. But what changes the nature of this situation, including Iceland, as the welcome site of fugitives or refugees, is in ensuring people of the same rights, the same demands for society as those that they have specifically offered to them are entitled. It is a fundamental change in the number of applications, especially those who did not get through the formal process with the results of being invited here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u104	President. It doesn't look like it's the problem. A senator has listened to me rather than to the previous day. I wasn't accusing him of anything. I was just asking him not to be a coward. There are two differences. Interestingly, why not? A senator shouldn't have gotten my questions down. It's not like I've made them here in the councilroom. They're all in this tiny bill. I read the exact details of what this bill is doing, but what? A senator came from the mountains. He couldn't write down for me. Perhaps he should read the bill that he feels so strongly about. I repeat my questions, and I don't have to repeat them with words because of what. A senator must know them by heart or wear them in front of him if he has read the bill. I might add one more: have a reason. A senator reading the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u105	Mr. President. I guess it's all right. A senator did not give a special promise to try to control his temper, for this show we saw here was absolutely unnecessary. Hv. A senator well knows that I have read the bill, followed a discussion on this subject when she conducted the last assembly, and followed the answers given. They gave clear answers to the effects of the bill. It's about giving people the same requirement, no matter how they come to the country. Of course, it's possible to agree on information and the like, but as I had a previous answer, and as I discussed in my speech, the effects appear primarily in the fact that people are being given the same insistence on the reception community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, for this talk and to say that I share one thing with a friend. A senator, i.e. that we as a community should not accept more people than we can handle or can assist with adjusting to Icelandic society, learning the Icelandic language, getting on foot, etc. However, this bill focuses on those who have already received a position in Icelandic society to receive services and assistance to do just that, exactly what happens in all the other countries; Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. So here it was lies and nonsense saying that it was in other ways. However, I wondered, " What is the rush? ' A senator continues to oppose the help of persons who have received a position in the community to learn Icelandic, to get help in getting on the road, to find help with work? I think it's a certain politics. [[The president calls.]] It's political as hell. There's a senator driving here. He mixes different things that I and what I have. A senator agrees about who will be allowed to enter the land and that we should accept only those we can receive. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But if you don't want the services of the people who come to the country, it's an ugly politics, huh? Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u107	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u108	I want to pray. Councilmen to respect deadlines, also the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u109	Mr. President. Politicalism has certainly become ugly these days because of the motive of some politicians, such as the highest power. Ministers to label people and make them opinions. V.E.G. The minister was not doing anything else in these oppositions and previous answers. Because he finds it difficult to back up his case, he dissuades critics completely from their claims. But at the same time, the minister admits that no more should be received than we can handle. In fact, he already has, as we have seen, with all the problems the reception system has been facing. These two groups cannot be held at the same time, that no more than the community can handle, and that it is all right to increase the demands that humans can make for society, thereby increasing the number of applications.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u110	A respectable president. In Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Denmark, rural societies receive payment from the State to help people learn the language, to help build homes, to help people find employment. Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Denmark provide support for a set number of years to do so. We're talking about doing that for a year's experiment in Iceland. It's done in all the other countries. In Norway the services of these groups are far greater than in Iceland because people know what will happen if people are not helped to adjust to the community. Hv. A senator mixes the foreigners'legislation on the other hand and the social services of the rural community helping individuals to adapt to Icelandic society, thereby bringing bullshit in the context of drawing a similar number of applications. I'm pointing out what. A senator says it doesn't hold his mind. Then I say again, "It's an ugly politics not to want to help people with whom society has already said they're going to receive, help them learn Icelandic, as well. " A senator has talked a lot about getting a job, getting a place to live and stuff like that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Different things are being mixed here and there. A senator is the greatest genius of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u111	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister seems to refrain from seeing the context of things. As I traced my speech, government decisions, especially decisions about the services that candidates are required for, affect how many people want asylum in certain countries. It is obvious, and the examples are all around us. And talking about confusing things together, tops. A minister also confuses the people of the community, people who are seated here, with offering certain qualities, specific services, making certain demands for the reception community. [[Up front.]] In Denmark and in the direction of a social club table, as I mentioned in my speech, it is simply a great deal of emphasis on adaptation to society, the adjustment of the people Danir will offer. What does this adjustment involve? It's even. in that men are given the principles of dancing society, respecting women's rights, etc. and, of course, learning the language. [[The president calls.]] In fact, I don't think it's any further to promote Icelandic education for those who sit here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u112	Mr. President. That is certainly true of what was before. A senator was the highest. The prime minister of Iceland announced on September 19, 2015, that his government would put 1.5 billion in financial aid because of the acceptance of refugees. He held an extra government meeting because of the refugees'affairs, and he also assumed that tens of millions of dollars would be put on a project, an international project to cope with Europe's refugee problems. He preached to a press conference for the reason where a minister's committee's suggestions were made on the affairs of refugees and immigrants that had been discussed recently. It's one of the best things to do. During his prime season, a member of the council made a decision. It'd be nice to see these needles by the way. A senator in his deportation here, who has changed and changed, and now is about to turn around to coordinate the arrival of refugees with the mix of different objects. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. Senator: When he speaks of Iceland's failure to take over more than Iceland, what's the limit to it? A senator what Iceland can do? [[The president calls.]] Is it moral, financial, or what exactly is their limit?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u113	Mr. President. From the time that I was president of the Ministerial Committee on Refugees, as well as as as the prime minister's contribution to the problem, there has been no change in my course. A key point was that it was used to the best of its means to help as many people as possible. These were three - sided actions, focused on welcoming the shelterers, on speeding up the possibility of identifying who had the right to the asylum and who did not, and on helping in the neighborhood with refugees in a refugee camp. Hv. A senator asks me, as a result of my agreeing with a minister that we should not accept more than our community, which criteria were there, I don't trust to mention any particular number of the final points in it, whether in a number of people or money. I don't think anyone can mention it. [[The president calls.]] The important thing is that this happens at the speed of our managing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u114	Mr. President. One point was made in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator before whom I share his opinion, and it is that the EU agreement with Turk, which was about to hold some 3 million refugees from Syria in Turkey, was in the highest way bad. I'd love to get a clearer answer from what happened. A member of the so - called stapush-back political policy to which the European Union has been severely critical that the European Union pushed refugees away, pushed the problem into Turkey, and pushed the challenge to Libya. This girl, if I allow myself to gossip, would be the best. The President, has been severely criticized by the Council of Europe, by the institutions of human rights, and by the EU, he is turning away from that route. But I'd like to get it from the bottom of my head. A member of the Parliament whether he believes that the so - called "push-back pearcy-backing" political is what Iceland should record here when other countries are deporting because of the harsh criticism that the EU has received because of this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u115	Mr. President. I have not seen much disappearing of European countries trying to reduce the flow of restitutions to the countries, at least not the North countries that, like me shaving here, try hard to seem like an unattractive option. However, regarding this agreement with Turk and the effect on Tyrki, it is of course possible to wonder whether it did not appear again and again just how empty the talks were in 2015. I mentioned earlier, why don't these countries just let the people come by plane? The people often pay far more than the cost of a plane ticket. It is because the countries refuse to allow it, do not want to give them visas, but rather send them on a life - threatening journey across the Mediterranean Sea and in the African or Asian wilderness, and then form them when they receive flowers at Munich train station or anywhere else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It seems to me that there's evidence of a very unhealthy policy in this series of languages. [[The president calls.]] It's the result of virtualism, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u116	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u117	Mr. President. We're here on bill to 1. Environment, bill that deals with changing law on the affairs of immigrants, receipt of refugees and emigrants. This is an important bill, and it deals with the citizens of society who are either coming to the country or who are already part of the community and how we can best serve those who do not know society. This is part of an important discussion that we need to take into the community with an open mind, without prejudice, and with understanding and humanity. As we have seen, during recent years there has been some discussion of how we can improve the development of immigrants, including the results of immigrants. with a review of the role and approach of the European Environment Agency. During the past year, there have been challenging and urgent discussions about the special laws about foreigners and their various rights since 2016, but the bill that has been discussed contains very controversial, serious, and thought - provoking issues of conflict. As far as we're concerned, the highest plans will be made. Minister of Justice to again measure for bill to legalize the changes in foreigners by the end of January, but it is clear that this will be delayed. This was shown in a revised Constitution. Let's hope it's a nice delay. This is a big, important case that needs political coverage. The laws relating to foreigners need to be smelled with dignity and responsibilities, but especially that respect for the situation and life of the afflicted and the humble are recognized. This lack has been marvelously lacking in the bill we have seen so far. The stated objective of the Minister of Justice with the contributions of the bill, which is almost the same as what was submitted to a number of victims, is to promote a more effective and continuous act of the law, to increase the effectiveness and shorten the time of court treatment for the benefit of candidates seeking international protection and privacy. But the moves certainly scare you, Mr. President. It is reason to welcome all positive steps and rejoice despite all the bill we are considering today and to encourage them to get a walk, not to confuse with the discussion, and not to be misled, even though there are forces that want to stone together different factors. Much deeper than that, though, is the problem of prejudice. Let us remember that we are not dealing with a small group. The number of immigrants is more than 50,000 in Iceland and more than 14% of the population in the country. In this bill, the red strand is strengthening a multicultural facility, the organization that is supposed to be a government maintenance and trust in the adaptation of immigrants and their safety in our society. In the middle of the 2001's, a multicultural facility began to operate. There is considerable experience in this regard. The role of the Law was established in 2012, i.e. to facilitate the services of immigrants in Iceland, to provide governments, companies, partners and persons with counseling and information on the affairs of immigrants, to share information with immigrants on their rights and duties - these are examples of the role - and monitor the development of immigrants in society, including with information, research, analysis and information sharing. These are all good goals. Then, too, one of the roles is to communicate with ministers, emigrants, and other government indications and suggestions on how all individuals can be active members of the community, regardless of nationality or background. By means of the bill presented here, the details of various tasks and how they will be performed to ensure that the interests and well - being of the clients, for what reason they have become members of the Icelandic community, are being clearly identified. A multicultural site located in Iceland has been able to look for information on many aspects of everyday life in Iceland, the Government, and to look for assistance on transport to and from Iceland. It has to be said that this institution, as it is, has not been allowed to fly. This has led to the most important cause of money. This bill includes the central change that the Multicultural Network is now designed for a larger role through the development of a uniform reception of refugees, so it is important to promote the Agency so that it can handle this task. It is of utmost importance that financial reform be made better. The new task is legally established, and thus it is guaranteed to cooperate with personal information to the extent necessary according to law on personal protection and the processing of personal information. This bill aims to coordinate and improve the attitude that awaits immigrants in Iceland, regardless of the reasons they move here. This is an important thing. We all have to go to rhythms here. By means of good information media and education, immigrants are invited to Iceland. It also helps to introduce Iceland far and wide across countries. The representatives of the Multihuman House will need to meet the refugees and present them with an offer to receive a country partner. Therefore, it is essential that this institution, whose headquarters is in Isafjordur, as mentioned earlier and is an excellent location, also be used by other personnel, that is my opinion, e.g. in the capital area where, for example, nearly anyone applying for international protection. They live in the capital area and in the Southnes. A multicultural site should be considered to have operations or representatives in many parts of the country where perhaps large groups of immigrants are lived for a long time or are temporary. This could be done in cooperation with a work agency that has various tasks to do. Of course, it can be said that during the days, an immigrant counseling room was established, as indicated earlier, and is in accordance with the counsel of the Council of the 149th Council. The need for active members of the community cannot help but be glad that they are being strengthened for serving as immigrants. True, it is my opinion that this service in Reykjavík was closer to strengthening and strengthening, on the grounds of a multicultural facility, that it expanded its activities. It would have been more efficient and we might have done as well with our money in that way. But maybe this is a wonderful idea, and of this we will have experience. As mentioned at the highest. A minister is here on a test project, and it will be nothing more than that this consulting room will carry out some of its tasks similar to that of a multicultural site. In the discussion that followed the progress of the case at 149, I emphasized my view that in the work of the Multihuman Institute, there is considerable experience and it is very important to take advantage of the knowledge there was stored and collected, and it was not allowed to go to the courtyards, that it would need to be strengthened along and at the same time, and that there was not a pressing need to establish yet one new government agency, as I have mentioned earlier. However, I am happy and, of course, support to this experience project and to the staff of the Agency and to all its activities. Mr. President. Of course, this bill that we have for our discussion is referred to in the Synod of Developing Policy That promotes participation in the community that was accepted here in the United States less than a year ago. What does that mean? That means they'll be shaped an immigrant policy. I'm afraid that policy doesn't exist in Iceland. We are the only northern nation that does not have a more stable emigrant policy, in this regard. I don't know that any European countries don't have such a policy in the railing. It is stated that this will be done, and I expect the Ministry, more than one, to be working on this policy and to submit to the Council in accordance with the resolution agreed here on the past council. Mr. President. The overall bill is welcomed, especially the requirements for the promotion of the Polydiversity site and for the putting of a more extensive role. This, of course, is to be done with them in advance, and with the assurance that this remarkable institution, a multicultural site, will be made available to sustain and thrive, not just in one place, but in cooperation with many in other territories. It will be fascinating and exciting to observe the discussion and the handling of this matter. A welfare committee, and I hope that it becomes legal in this council. At the same time, the person standing here wishes to be informed, to be opposed by humanity and understanding, not by prejudice and charismatic thinking. Yet, there seems to be some offer, as we have already heard from today's discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u118	Mr. President. As mentioned in the discussion, the main purpose of this bill on the affairs of immigrants was stated by the highest level. Social Minister for the second time, harmonizing the welcome of refugees. It turns even that a multi-cultural site, and in itself, I do no comment on the activities of the Mégé site, it's just an excellent institution that makes good things. But in a paper with the bill, it says: A consistent welcome system is involved in ensuring refugees equal service, regardless of how it comes to the country... This is a fundamental change, and I believe that here we need to stop for a moment and see what it really means, i.e. that there should not be any distinction between saying good newsmen - which we choose and accept - and often bring people from war - torn lands and great difficulties, and we have done it well and continue to do it, and I support them - here are those who come to our country on their own and who are allowed to live in the same hat when it comes to the ministry. This is my first criticism because it includes additional expenses, Mr. President, not to be explained by the Minister. That's, I must say, a great flaw in this bill and euphoric. We need to know what the cost is. It's just that way. I, sitting on a budget board, have been very concerned about the debt of state funds and believe that when such a change is made exactly what this will cost. They can't be found in the bill and the highest. The minister has not answered, has escaped inundated. He only refers to the Foreign Institute, that we should make this the difference between his legal group and then the Foreign Institute. But he has to know how much this bill costs. No 24 million will be required, as shown in the report in chapter 6, where an assessment of the effects is considered. Let us consider just the number of people we have accepted. We've hosted 85 reaches out to you. In fact, it was approved to raise that number to 100. I don't know how it's worked out, whether that number's been reached by last year, but at least we've done it okay. Since then, we have received a permit for 631 inmates. This group of paintings cost 3.5 billion dollars, i.e. The seeker element, not the greeting show, last year. Then, for some reason, they asked for an extra deposit. Even though the number of applications dropped last year, there were still 400 million additional funds and was adopted in the Christmas budget, so we are talking about 4.1 billion under the hosts and 631 individuals. For this money, we could have helped 7,572 persons in a refugee camp, e.g. In the Middle East, Jordan, Lebanon, Gaza, for example. I'm just there, Mr. President, I'd like us to make the most of this money and try to help people, for example. where they live, in refugee camps, and in this way to bring the funds to their institutions, e.g. United Nations. runs a refugee camp. I have been to a refugee camp in both Gaza and Jordan, and this is not to say that these are tents or such. They're apartments, apartment housing, and they run a health system for refugees, they run an education system, they run a social network. All of this costs money, and the nations are strengthening it. I personally would have wanted to see that we would reduce the number of inmates that come here and put the money in these institutions to help as many people as possible. This, for one thing, is a misuse of it. Everybody knows that. Everyone knows it's been abused. I'm not saying everyone's abusing it, like that. There's a team among us who really need help, but people are abusing the system. It waits for months at the cost of the State and then is dismissed after several months, even a whole year, and in some cases it has to be granted permanent leave because the process has taken so long. This is what I wanted to come to just about the amount of money we're putting into this system. For example, there are 500,000 refugees in Lebanon - 2.2 million in Jordan, 1.4 million in Gaza. All of this is a huge number of people who need our assistance and help, but we could do so more systematically by sending money to the United Nations institutions that run this system. I find it odd, I must say, Mr. President, to transmute the rights of the greeting people to the trustees. This is different. We're talking about people we agree to take over and take care of and then people who come here on their own and it's not always clear whether they really meet the international conditions of being refugees. There are a variety of services offered to eaters who are not given to the trustees, and if we are putting them under the same hat, it will cost more money. It takes the highest. A minister to recognize this, and there must be a financial programme and such. However, this is natural, so with increasing numbers, the amount is increasing and the system becomes more expensive. We are sending out a message in the world that this service is available, resulting in a growing number of applications. It's just that way. I am, as I said before, totally believing that we are to assist and help well-being people. But here I feel that I'm going too far, and this is undefined, especially with regard to the cost. We are known for our fine service to this class. That means there'll be more here. The Ministry of Justice has published that the number of candidates for international protection has become one of the largest in Europe and the largest in the Northern countries on the appeal. This has been discussed in this discussion. It means that the applications are going to increase, that's for sure. However, we need to tailor ourselves to the need for growth and realize that this is accompanied by an increase in the cost they need. But it does not. There is no record of what this really means in cost. Sitting on a financial committee, I don't think that's an option. Then I have to say that the debate over this party has always a tendency to become harsh, especially when discussing unfounded applications for international protection, which are considerable. Now it is, for example. so in Norway and Denmark, because it has been mentioned in this context, I think it was the highest. A minister who before answered that it was being rendered comparable service in Norway. The communities would be giving people this service. As a result, the course would be the same that would be introduced here with this bill as it is in Norway. However, Norway and Denmark, in particular Norway, are already fighting the need for more and more asylum. Norwegians are advertising community services who can come to the country for asylum. There are, for example. Advertising that if you are applying for a job, if you are looking for a better standard of living, that is not a legitimate reason to apply for asylum in Norway. They advertise it on community media and elsewhere in order to prevent people from applying in an unfounded way. Are we doing something like that here? No, we don't do anything like that, nothing. I asked the Ministry of Justice why we would not go the way Norway did when the Ministry of Justice appeared to a financial committee. Why don't we tell them that people can't apply for asylum here when they're looking for a better standard of living? Mr. President, I respect the fact that people are looking for a better standard of living, but it's just not a legitimate reason to apply for asylum. Yet, there are a considerable number of people who do so, and there are a large amount of expenses. At that cost, I would have liked to have used to help refugees who really need them, e.g. In a refugee camp. At the same time, the situation is being delayed for months, it is legal cost and all kinds of expenses because the person had no right to apply for asylum. I would have liked to see that coin used, for example. In the Middle East, for example, to form in a refugee camp in Gaza, but not at some legal cost here. There are many things that need to be adjusted, and the person who can apply and what are legitimate reasons for applying must be clearly presented. But that is not what we are doing. All of us agree to watch out for human rights, and we all agree that we are to assist those who need it during difficult times. But I also assume that we all agree that it is not acceptable that some people use this system with unfounded applications with the appropriate delay for those who really need help. We could use the money much better where the number of refugees is, like the refugee camps we have mentioned here. It should be noted that the current minister of finance, then prime minister, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, was mentioned about three years ago as he was discussing unfounded applications and government experience in other countries, that it was important to apply the consistent interpretation of the rules. I'll take my mind off this. That's not what we're doing. I say for what I'm saying, we might think we're looking at this as some special problem, but it's not like that. This system is being abused around the world. There are many of these from other countries, and then we see to it the signal from the Norwegian government because the system is being abused. They make it clear to every major media that those in their search for international protection will not receive a place of refuge under certain circumstances. There have been other countries, such as Greece, and conditions are certainly not good there. That's about it. 50,000 refugees in Greece I think there were 120,000 applications for international protection last year in Greece. Greece is a European Union and should the European Union naturally help the Greeks to accept them properly. Here we are giving international protection to people who have been sheltered in a refugee camp in Greece, but they are not considered acceptable. So, then, why not bring these messages to the government and to the European Union, some of whom do not have a proper eye to strengthen the Greeks to create decent conditions for these people? There are many things that need to be done. I'm afraid, Mr. President, I think that this bill has not been thought over and must be made aware of the costs involved. This means that the message of good service here will be received, which means an increased number of applications. We're good to go. This means more cost, and it needs to be paid in some way, and it is true that governments are aware of how they are going to meet those costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u119	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this speech and says that I share some of the opinions of others. A senator who is in discussion about the fact that society here is not allowed to receive more than we are ready to do, we can and we can help adapt to Icelandic society. And before I go any further, I'd like to say it too. A senator for financing on this bill is wrong because this bill is just about a multicultural site and the budget that needs to be added. Another factor to address these issues is to find funding in financial programmes and funding for the current year. We've already started working on this. A experimental agreement has been made with three rural communities. It's about making the work that attracts these issues more efficient and that the President of the United States receives a role there. I would also like to say that much of that cost or investment because people who are already in the country and we help with Icelandic are simply an investment that is long - term - a substantial part of the cost has already been paid, and more and less since 1991, through the Community Services Act. What I'm asking myself is what I want to ask myself. A member of Congress: Is he really thinking that regardless of how many refugees came into the country, they should not be given the same service as helping to adjust to foreign society? Number one. And number two is a what? A senator says that it is an unwise investment to teach this person Icelandic, that it is an unwise investment to teach these people social sciences and how the Icelandic community is built, that it is an unwise arrangement for a certain service, in the exact way that the rest of the North countries are doing it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u120	Mr. President. I think it's unwise to bring a bill that we don't know what the cost is. You're absolutely right by the Topv. Minister, he intends to increase the number of two employees in the United States. I told her earlier that this was a good institution, and I'm not against her. However, it is clear that in this bill it is a message that comes to cost large amounts of money at the end of the day. I just don't think that's right. I don't make any sense that individuals and refugees are studying Icelandic. It's natural just a twist of the highest order. Minister. My lawsuit in this case, the highest. Minister, this has been a long time since the cost is not available. He's got to lie down. I'm right to say that I'm just thinking that I want to use this money to a far greater degree than is done for refugees abroad, in refugee camps there. Much of this money is going to all sorts of things that are useless to refugees, and to refugees, in all kinds of legal areas, and at various expense. Then, by day, the person had a non-profit application. I want to see that money benefiting from those who need it. That's what this is all about from my point of view. When a person brings a bill that will clearly translate funds for a government fund, he must be made aware of it. It's just that way. V.E.G. A minister referred to Scandinavia, Norway, and Denmark as being doing this kind of service. That's all right. But what are we going to do in return to reduce the number of people coming here? We are not doing anything about it. This will mean more applications. It's perfectly clear, topv. Minister. Maybe it's not from the Ministry. Minister, but it's all from the same government box. The wealth of money has to be a source of all these things, and we just need to look at those costs, and they need to be available.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u121	A respectable president. I've studied many times that on the basis of local social services legislation, we've been paying farm members for a particular service that this will be done since 1991. Of course, that has been a change since then. What you're doing here is being harmonized in the manner in which this is being done. It's being made more efficient. Social education is being added, which is of utmost importance. You'd think a pack would go down. A senator who puts high value on Icelandic values felt that it was very important to teach people about society, culture, what is part of the traditions and customs here. A man would also have thought that what he did was wrong. A member and his group would be very valuable, since individuals who have already received a position here are being instructed in Icelandic language. Of course, two different issues are being mixed together. Either we believe that it is important for people who already have a position here to be taught at the baseline of Icelandic society and to be helped to adapt to it or not. [[The president calls.]] The foreign law is a completely different debate. [[The president calls.]] You can't mix it like a dog. A senator is doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u122	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. First, it is impossible to compare the eaters with those seeking refuge. It's two different things, topv. Minister, and it's right to be seen. But take your societies, for example, as an example from the highest level. Ministers specifically mentioned that they are being negotiated, that they are doing this service, etc. How's the top? Minister to negotiate with the locals? [[Flmrh.: Very well.]] It's just going really bad. It's going well in Smokeynestown, tops. Minister? [[Flmrh.: It's going really well.]] You have no idea what you're talking about. Smokeytown has such a problem with negotiating with the Foreign Institute for Help with Refugees. [[Up front.]] It's natural, it's just a twist, topv. Minister. It's just that many societies are not even willing to reach these agreements. There are very few. In fact, you can see that the social security system in Smokeytown has concluded on this matter that other rural groups must accept responsibility with Smokeytown. [[The president calls.]] But they do not. They don't. [[The president calls.]] A foreign agency is beginning to negotiate directly with the owners of a home on Ásbek past Smokenestown because they have no agreement with the local community. It's so wrong at the highest. Ministers, he's negotiating with the locals, and he's making a clean walk. [[The president calls.]] It's just wrong. [[Flmrh.: No.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u123	President wants to draw attention to him. Councilmen and the highest. Minister of the deadline. The president also wants less of the highest. Minister and minister. Councilmen say that when a speaker is put down, he has become and can be consulted later if there is more to his heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u124	A respectable president. I cut by one in a speech of two. A senator, in fact, a few things I'm going to do a little better in a talk afterward. He said that he had respect for people's search for a better standard of living. You see, I feel the same way. I respect it, and I like that people try it. I have personally been a foreigner in two foreign countries, and I know how it is, at least in those places, and even though I have a number of privileges, it was very difficult. Even in good systems, it is difficult to be a foreigner, at first. It's not necessarily the State's fault, the culture is different, and you don't necessarily understand the sense of humor, you don't necessarily have a cultural background, or much less the language. Whatever the case, I respect it and find it desirable for people to test something in their lives, move from country to country in search of a better standard of living, or be curiously. What impresses me is that when it comes to a foreign conversation, there seems to be a lack of respect. A senator claims to bear for this, not to shine very brightly. Maybe it's the best thing to do in the case of those who come here. Some would say that there is a search for a better quality of life and a compromise, the accusation that these are just people looking for a better quality of life and that there is no place in the refuge system, is used as a reason to say no to people in order to have a stay on the land. There is no general license in Icelandic law. Someone who lives in Albania or Georgia who wants to come here and work, pay taxes, and just be a great Icelander, can't be. There's no way. The principle is that you can't stay in this country unless you're from the EEA. Then there are exceptions that people have to tick in. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator, who claims to respect people's search for a better lifestyle: Would you like to have a good life? A senator supports the change in foreigners that would make this possible? [[The president calls.]] Of course, with some conditions, but making it possible and easier for people to move here to look for a better standard of living. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Would I support that people here might be allowed to seek a higher standard of living as trustmakers? No, I wouldn't support it. [[Up front.]] It's like a trustee. I wouldn't support it because we'd never be able to handle it. We would never cope if we were to accept people who are looking for a better standard of living. There are no legitimate reasons. That's exactly the same thing in the North and other countries. These are not legitimate reasons for seeking a refuge for a better standard of living, as if I had great respect for it. People are trying to improve their own interests. It's just that way. But we can't welcome everyone, unfortunately, that's just the way it is. It would be wishful in those countries where living rates are so bad, including... because of corruption, for example, that people could handle the problem at home, and they would be better off living there, people would not have to go long distances and dangerous in search of a better standard of living. I'm afraid that's what we're looking at. There is another in this context, which may be appropriate to talk about, too, when it comes to the refugee problem over his head and cause. We watch, for example. In Afghanistan, U.S.A., the responsibility of the United States is great. From there came a number of refugees, the largest group in Europe last year, from Afghanistan, reminding me. In Greece, this is the largest group. Take, for example, the war in Syria. Who are responsible for this? The war in the Yemen? Isn't Saudi Arabia there a doll? These countries are naturally responsible. I think it can be counted on one hand what Saudi Arabia accepts many of the trustees.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u126	Is this to be followed?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u127	I'm giving you an example, okay? Senator. It is natural to point to these things too, who is responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u128	A respectable president. I may not have been clear enough in my previous question. I wasn't asking what. A senator whether he was in favor of using the security system to seek a better life span. It's a matter of opinion. That's the case with a senator, and in fact, I share that opinion with you. A senator and I don't know anyone who feels differently here at the Hall of Congress. It is obvious, however, that there is no way for these people to come here and seek a better life span. There's no legal way to do that. That's the problem I want to fix. There may be some condition. I feel quite normal while the world movie is just the way it is today. But I was asking specifically about the change in foreigners to make this possible over their heads. You see, I find that there is a contradiction in standing here and saying that I respect people who seek a better way of life than they do not want to do anything to help them. I think that's a contradiction. I think it's a procedure designed to make it more comfortable to be the subject of the opinion. The senator is, i.e. To be against people who can move here. And I'd like to remind you, I've probably said this a lot, that it's about 500 million people who are allowed to move here today, but somehow the Flood does not come from Europe. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u129	Mr. President. It may be that much of the world's population is looking for a better standard of living. Individuals in the European Economic Area can come here looking for work and we have benefited from it, certainly. [[Up front.]] [[Right.]] This has been the case with hardworking workers who have made a big difference to us, especially in the uplifting of the construction industry and so forth, so, of course, you are happy about it. But this is how the system is put together, and it's human work. But the conclusion is clear. Sadly, this system we know is being abused, and there are many other things that are abused when it comes to systems, the public system, social security systems, and other things, and all the costs are involved. [[The president calls.]] I am a spokesman to try to reduce this abuse and use this coin to help those who really need it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I am, for example. it is accompanied by raising funds for development cooperation if necessary. A senator is interested in knowing that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u130	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u131	Mr. President. What's shown out is in the motion of a proselytism. paritaprevir Þórarinsson the son of Thorin makes me a little sad, that I am being confused with a few things. In the case we address here, it is not overstepping the rights of the greeting to other refugee groups. Rather, it is being harmonized with the reception of rural communities, which have been a problem so far. There has been a problem with the lack of consistent information or advice. I hear from the senator's lawsuit that he's worried about the cost. But I want to know what. A senator feels that we should not strengthen information, strengthen counsel and counsel to the local community in order to reconcile the reception of refugees. It seems that at least on the road of Smokeynestown, it is ready to bring this information together and advice to refugees because Smokenestown was the first community to sign a agreement with the Ministry of Social Affairs a few days ago, on February 11, to be part of this uniform reception system of the local community. So I wonder which way. A senator is a little confused about what's going on, and we want a community in Smokeytown. It is clear to the company's will to take part in this work. But I wondered, " Is that a real will? ' A senator not to promote and coordinate information to this vulnerable group. Is that really so, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u132	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has merely misunderstood my speech earlier. I'm certainly following the harmony of information. All information is good. I'll agree with that. And if this bill only costs 24 million, I'm not worried about that. But the point is, it's the service that's being talked about and the message it contains is that it's not quite clear what this will cost. Here we perform exactly the same service that we render to people in England, we've done it well, and I'm supporting it. In fact, I believe that we should stress our pursuit of Christian refugees because they are the world's most persecuted refugees. But I know that more of those who come here as refugees are not Christian, for example. That's something we should fix. I'd like to encourage the highest. Social Affairs minister, because he has a great heart for this class, to use himself specifically to receive Christian refugees because they are persecuted. And all the evidence shows that they are the world's most persecuted refugees. But for this bill and this uniform information gift, it's a good thing. A senator, and here is some misunderstanding that I object to it. However, as I say again and again, it is the expense factor and the message contained in this bill: This will mean an increase in cost. Everyone sees it but the highest. Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u133	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is talking about the cost and the money, and he sits on the General Assembly budget and is concerned about the state funds and status that I feel sorry for and support in it. But it is also so that some things are not valued for money, and that is human kindness. Hv. A member of the council was here talking about a refugee camp. I know that he has personal experience in coming to a refugee camp, and I also have as vice president of the European Council of Refugees, which came to several refugee camps. They're a relief, and where no one wants to be associated. They are not a place or a means to be strengthened, although we are certainly meant to be on both steeds. We are to welcome refugees, and we have good service in this country to the refugees who look to us for international protection, but we should also strengthen the international work that helps people stay at home, since everyone wants to be at home. [[The president calls.]] But I wondered, " It wasn't easy for me to understand a word. ' A member of the refugee camp, whether he wants us to be stronger than the refugee camp, because they are an emergency. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator spoke of Christian refugees, and I also want to reiterate because of the problem. Regarding Christian values, a senator said that the National Church of Iceland has gone very hard when it comes to refugees'affairs and has taken a very admirable stand for refugees. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I wonder what. A senator does not agree with the State Church on that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u134	The President still reminds us of the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I am determined to support the United Nations institutions that run these refugee camps and the United Nations Refugee Organization, for example, for Palestinians. We are to strengthen these institutions because they have done very good things, really good things that are spoken of far too little. These refugee camps could certainly be better, but they are not all bad, e.g. is schools' equipment nice. Although there are many children, up to 50 children in the classrooms in Gaza, there are good and clean equipment and such. All of these are available, health and social systems. It's costing something to run it all away. Sadly, we do not solve the problem there, that people have been living in this refugee camp for decades. Certainly, I wanted us to have a share in trying to solve the problem. But here's the situation, and that's where we can take our money. We could have helped 7,572 people in this refugee camp for the money we put into the system here at home for 631 individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u136	Mr. President. I'm gonna let myself tell you that this bill, though it's at the top of the bill. A minister is on his own, and this gives us reason to discuss these issues in a somewhat larger context. I allow myself to make such an effort here at the beginning of this discussion, after the very end of the discussion. Ministers, that nowhere in the North are as many applications for international protection as in this country, based on an appeal number. A foreign agency has published information on the number of people applying for national protection, and there are a six-fold higher proportion than in Norway and Denmark, six-fold, three times that in Finland, and even 50% more than in Sweden. I'll allow myself to conclude from these numbers, tops. President, that our reception system is actually broken. I believe these figures, so hard and as clear as they are, give evidence of that conclusion. Then, too, I concluded that we were separated from our neighbors in the north and at least from those in the north. correspondent in Denmark and Norway I'm going to use my speaking lesson here to back it up. But I'd like to start by saying that we're talking about a delicate subject that, of course, needs to be discussed with respect. I would have preferred to do so without a heated agreement and without men's opinions or debates about what they are doing, as they sometimes do. But I don't think there's any disagreement that we want as a nation to contribute to the enormous refugee crisis that arose in the world, especially after the modern Arabic. The question to my mind is very simple: How will this be done best? How can we make the most practical use of the money available in the sense that it will benefit and benefit as most people? Then I'd like to add, especially women and children. Mr. President. I'm going to take steps in our neighboring countries and start with Denmark. Thus, a team of dancers is leading a government in Denmark, and he published a strategy for the 2019 elections. This strategy has a heading that can be translated as reasonable and realistic. She looks like this, Mr. President, with a picture of the chairman of the Danish party and the modern prime minister of Dana. [[Senator shows an image.]] The subheading of this document is a whole plan of Danish foreign policy. I'm going to be able to quote this publication in the Danish language, by permission of the president. This publication is entitled Retuldig and Realistsk ▪ helhedspans for Danish ud readables. There's a lot of material here on one 14 pages. I'm just gonna give a picture of this publication, which I hope most people will learn. There are three main chapter names, and then there are subsections. One of the main vessels is the number with meaning. This is just my translation, Mr. President. The second key is, we want to help more. Chapter 3 bears the title: the new fight for independence. In the dance tongue, Den Yeny frishedkamp. This is often the case, but what is at the highest level is that the peer group rejects a definitively relevant policy in the litigation group, i.e. The former course, saying that it causes serious injustices in which refugees are put at risk and where individuals of a different sheep's house may benefit billions of dollars from the calamity of others. In this light, the Party presents its main policy issue in the seminary, to set up a welcome station outside Europe. In the policy declaration I have here, it is stated that between 2016 and 2018, 10,000 children, women and men were lost or lost in the Mediterranean Sea. It says that this is a human tragedy and that the sect wants a righteous, secure system. This is implemented in a way that the team of dancers says that Denmark, preferably in cooperation with other European countries, should set up a welcome station outside Europe. It goes on to say that Denmark will accept a certain number of quotas based on cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization. Thus, many refugees are being helped in Denmark. It continues that such a reception center made up of the main proposals to stop the life - threatening, risky, and uncontrolled flight of the Mediterranean Sea. It destroys business equipment from smugglers and means that fewer refugees and travelers are at risk of harassment and attacks on their quests. Then, Mr. President, I'm going to give a witness to the debate of the Danish Prime Minister at the Danish Congress on October 6, 2000. where she even spoke. ... abouttheextremists' business. The prime minister said that ancient alienism was a mistake. It's a mistake. The government would continue its stricter course, but more was needed. She added: The European security system has actually collapsed. These are the words of Mette Frederiksen, Prime Minister of Dana, at the Danish Congress of October 6, U.S.A. The European contaminant system has collapsed. She added, and the translation is, of course, loosely: Let's be honest. The possibility of asylum often depends on the fact that a fugitive pays off people and wants to risk his life in an overcrowded RHIB. The Mediterranean has become a cemetery. And she said, No man fleeth for his pleasure. As we are about to do, we will react to those who flee through smugglers and the remaining ones who have the greatest need for help. Mr. President. Those words weigh heavily on my mind. It must be directed to those who have the greatest need for it, and it must not be handled in a way that ill - treated people can take advantage of them and make a profit of taking money from people of great means, perhaps from all resources, for showing them on a charge of manslaughter and in peril. In her speech, she says: "We want to treat the refuge attendance outside Denmark in third countries that can provide security for those in need of protection. And she added that from her viewpoint this was the only practical solution for the future. Then I would like to see that this policy of the Danish Party refers to the fact that the European Union's top members were at their meeting on June 28, 2018. It continues that the German government has plans to set up such a station in North Africa as well as France, which has plans for such a station in Africa. Then I'd like to proceed next to the Norwegian government policy, but the Norwegian government's political treaty is dated on January 17, 2019. It contains a detailed chapter on the languages of immigrants and, especially, the affairs of the trustees. It says that adaptation challenges - the natural classical subject - can be seen. People transport is a test of Norwegian society, and this is especially true of the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare state. You can hear a tone similar to that heard from Denmark, that the welfare system is thought to be threatened by this move. The Norwegian welfare community faces a period with an increasing share of older citizens and a smaller economic space. A large import will be an additional challenge in this light. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the rules of immigrants, states the Norwegian government's treaties. Norway will use herself to find practical solutions for refugees of the world, with the help of local refugees, the natural refugee camps, and the hostilities. Further, in the Treaty of the Norwegian government, the government aims to connect Norway more closely to the European process of a joint European system which can include the establishment of a joint and restitution outside the European Union and extending the external borders of the Schengen countries. So there is a great harmony in these policies that I have quoted here, on the one hand in Denmark and on the other in Norway, and with reference to the source authority on these issues which are the Declaration of the Danish Party, the Government Party, discuss the dance of the prime minister of the Council and the Norwegian State's Constitution. The course we follow here is natural, like what we're going to do. Brjánsson Her speech may not be written, but it is carried out, and the procedure is: There are six times as many inmates here as there are in Denmark and Norway, three times as many as in Finland, and 50% more than in Sweden. So it might be said that policy appears. Now, Mr. President, in some sense, we are following a course that has been deputized by others and as the Danish prime minister describes as a mistake. Mr. President. Surely we can do better than that. We want to do our part in helping people who are in distress. Clearly, we must do better than we do today. We cannot afford to waste money in the way that we actually do. And as Mette Frederiksen says, we must not let people, as she describes, fail both those who make this dangerous journey and suffer many, as well as the rest of them, who should have our help but not get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u137	Mr. President. We've been discussing a bill here at the highest level. Social and child - care minister for the concerted welcome to escape, which is one of the main proposals for the concerted welcome of high-ranking refugees. Minister of March 2017, but the committee yielded proposals in January 2019. The role of the Commission on the concerted reception of refugees was to recommend an integrated welcome system for refugees, regardless of the way people come to the country, their involvement in rural areas, their free partnerships, and their relations between administrations, to consider education for the staff of the state and rural unions involved in the receipt of refugees. The report published in January 2019, known as the Conspiracy of Refugees, included a report by the Committee for Refugees. proposed that the role of the World Health Organization at the arrival of refugees would be increased and the Agency cared for most of the organizational and educational matters due to the arrival of refugees. With a new coordinated welcome system for refugees and the role proposed by the Multihuman Location it is necessary to validate the Agency's new projects and at the same time ensure its authority to cooperate with personal information. I welcome this bill to the highest. Ministers, though I'd like to see it happen a lot earlier, and I'd also want to see that it would be decommissioned at the 150th legislation, as there's a Enforcement Centre intended to give professional advice to the reception groups and counsel for the concerted welcome of refugees. According to this excellent bill, the Multicultural Network is offered to agree with the local community, refugees, and persons who have been denied international protection but who are granted a permit on the basis of rich humanitarian grounds to settle into a certain reception group on the basis of the information available. Multi-culture centres provide refugees who decide not to accept an invitation to live in a reception group group group group of information on the general community service, and the residence should be held around and before consultation with the members involved in the arrival of refugees in Iceland. All of this has been called the past few years, i.e. agreement between the party involved and coming to the reception of those to whom we are looking for international protection regardless of the type of international protection they would like. Clearly, there is a great need for countries and countries to secure people who look to us for international protection as well as continuous service. Under this, I'm taking the highest bill. Minister. Long time. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that the bill involves the major change I only mentioned earlier that a multicultural site is designed for a more extensive role through a consistent reception. It has been discussed here that there has been a slight delay in this service between parts of the country, between terms. I'd like to, Mr. President, direct us into the ways that we need not to interfere with the exact location of this setting but, rather, what kind of service we provide to our vulnerable group of people who are looking for us. It's mentioned in the bill of the highest. Minister that the Agency currently located in Iceland will also have a work station in the capital area. So I'm glad that the majority of the refugees come to the capital area or Southnesia. It's a joy to know that Smokeytown was the first country society to sign up for being a part of this receptional group and share in making a concerted reception for refugees. So I congratulate Smokeytown on being the first member of the country to sign this agreement on February 11th. Mr. President. It is good to mention that the discussion about this bill has gone out a little and south and has been stretched and tophed, and the bill has actually been misunderstood in many ways. Hopefully, this is because of a misunderstanding, not because of the audience's willingness to speak in the General Assembly because the above words have been made to fall, which do not give evidence of humanity and humanity. But we need to strengthen and always guard our humanity and humanity when it comes to welcoming people to escape. There have been no more refugees around the world than in these days, and that is bad. But at the same time, it also puts on us the moral burdens, not just economics, because these have come up with members of Congress and have been very concerned about the crowns and money that are going on this project commissioned by this bill, but our moral obligation cannot be considered for the sake of money. The humane will not be valued for the money, and I have said it before, Mr. President, that communities are always measured by the way we treat our most least brothers and sisters. It is now, Mr. President, that our smallest of our brothers and sisters are people who have been forced to flee their homes because most people want to stay at their homes but because they want to be very poor, because of war conflicts, because of the consequences of war, and because of climate change, people who are in so much need that they take the risk of their lives and take the rest of their kin to go on their quest for a better life. I think the bill is good and necessary because we've also seen that there's been a lack of uniform information and advice for refugees here looking for them. I believe that, therefore, we can also prevent people from knowing their rights. We can contribute to this by establishing this Multicultural site. We can help people to become a part of both their rights and the community they are entering and they don't know, and how they can in the best way they can come to their feet and become part of Icelandic society because people who are looking here for us want to be a part of this society, not wanting to be defined as refugees, they simply want to live and live in a society that offers peace and tranquillity, live in wholesome society for themselves, their children, and their immediate partners. This truly can be an opportunity for an Icelandic society, and we can do more by sharing the good things with others, even if it is hard to deal with in the past few years. Even if we face a pandemic crisis, like all other nations in the world, we do not give a discount on the morals we want to protect, a discount of the values we want to show. On the contrary, we do not give a discount of the humanity or humanity we want to see around us, whether it is people who have lost their jobs, who do not fully know what the future holds, but also people who have fled their homes, their country, and who have run between countries and nations in search of a better life because we have wealth on this land to help as many people as possible. It simply grieves me when members of the council come up here and talk about how we can't accept everyone coming here. In the United States alone, Iceland is not the first country of those who have had the most wars or the consequences. Iceland is the furthest north of the Atlantic Ocean. It's hard to get here. Thus, this is not the first stop facing the inhabitants of those areas in which distress is highest. We must respect the fact that people who turn to us for international protection, for peace, for help, have worked hard to regain their lives. I welcome this bill to the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. I think it's part of what we're supposed to do a lot better here. There are many things we have to add to the presence of refugees. We also need to, because members of Congress have come in a public chair and talked about supporting people in their countries and countries more than we should be able to do both. Of course, we should continue to increase funding for development cooperation and increase funding for the multinational institutions that carry out the necessary humanitarian work. However, we should not increase funds for longevity in refugee camps because no one wants to live in a refugee camp for long, a refugee camp is infringement, not a final location. I'm celebrating this bill as I'm saying. I would have liked to see it come on until this is also an essential step in our developing a collective policy in the affairs of refugees and immigrants, in the affairs of those coming here, and looking to us for international protection and who come here for peace and support. It is also so that by agreeing with this welcome, we are evening the difference. We are also assisting the rural communities who have declared themselves willing to receive refugees. We are helping them to provide the best of services, to build experience and knowledge in the seminary, to develop knowledge from the staff who care for this class. The fact is, we have a lack of experience and knowledge in this category, and we have a lack of experienced employees. I believe this bill will help each of us to shape a global policy on how we best address those who are looking for international protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u138	Mr. President. I noticed in a talk a lot. The senator mentioned that there was a lack of humanity and humanity in this discussion. I began to wonder what it was. A senator would be showing off. True, there were at least Two o'clock. Senators, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson, who went a little more into the man than the ball, but I would not classify it as something that would indicate a lack of humanity alone. But I wonder, this is a concern if there is a lack of humanity in members of the council, what debate, or debate. A senator to refer?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u139	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. When I suggest that there is a lack of humanity, I'm talking about how the senators would rather keep people in refugee camps and strengthen the refugee camps than get people here. I'm also talking about the language that we can't deliver many people. I think that it must be classified in some way as a lack of essentials if not more human kindness than otherwise. Also, here are members of Congress, who speak frequently and frequently about Christian values, but I also remind them that the Church of Iceland has taken a firm stand in the earth when it comes to the affairs of refugees and refugees, and the acquiescation of spoken of greater humanity, more humanity into this category. I know why. A senator is full of humanity and will, of course, be of full support. But when people's doubts about looking here for the right purpose, that this is a crime gang, etc., they can't be at the expense of humanity and humanity to the people who come here in search of a better life, and in anguish. Because there's also a group that we need to talk to, and I know why. A senator has in his time made himself a politician.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u140	Mr. President. We are discussing one of the largest, indeed even the biggest issues of our time that have to do with the life and health and well - being of millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions of people as a result, and in such a large subject, the possibilities that we have to come to the best possible assistance, will become useful to most people, and especially to those most in need. There has just been a red cord to criticize the plans presented here and other government policies that this does not result in the failure to help as many as possible; this does not result in the loss of helping especially those who need help. So to turn it into some kind of lack of humanity, I feel very contrary. When the subject is so large and important, we must want to discuss it from facts and seek the best solution. And talking about the refugee camp, where things are very different from where they live. Like other delegates, I have traveled around the Middle East and the Mediterranean and have studied the circumstances there. The vast majority of refugees in the refugee camps, other members of the United States have the same story, wanting to get back to their homes, but in the refugee camps where conditions were hard to deal with, of course, people wanted to get anywhere else. Therefore, the importance of assistance in the Western world must not be overlooked, and it must not be turned into some lack of humanity, since it is the opposite. This is an attempt to help as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u141	Mr. President. I now believe deep down that I am and what I am. paritaprevir Would Davíð Gunnlaugsson's victory over the core of this matter, which is just as clear as it is? A senator mentioned that we assist those less fortunate in our environment, but we also support those who want to live at home, where development cooperation comes into play. It leads to international and international cooperation. It also involves strengthening women to education in developing lands, as was done in the case of the government of today. Senator. This is one of the most important projects that we can support and strengthen in international cooperation, but I think that when it comes to our environment, it is because of the problem. A senator was talking about it and that we in Western society are the best of assistance in our environment, we need to do it well, and we just need to put ourselves out of the way and turn around and talk out the facts exactly like that. A senator mentioned in his answer. The fact is, there are 75 million refugees worldwide, and more than half of the millions are women and children. There are delicate groups that will be subject, not so much, but quite often, and when it comes to violence toward this group, it is very widespread, mansale, etc. These are the people and these are the groups we want to help, and I know why. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson agrees with me in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u142	President. I just want to put this matter into perspective, the matter under which it is, not the other case or the position of the individual council members in general, in the presence of refugees or anyone else in other laws that are not discussed. There is a need for discussion, but it is not the subject we are discussing here. It is worth considering that a matter is, in fact, just as normal and as simple, about increasing efficiency in certain systems, should be provided with the discussion that has, to some extent, been going on here today. Mr President, what are we talking about? We're discussing the concerted reception of refugees, people who have come here. They're sharpening the role of the Multi-Same House, providing professional guidance to receive local members, counseling for the concerted welcome of refugees. Who in the world could object to getting counselling from the United States? They're talking about the refugees who have decided not to accept an invitation to a home to a reception group club but who prefer to be on their own but who prefer to be available information about the general service of fellow rural society from a multicultural home. Multi-culture centres hold their arms and agree with the members of the company that will be involved in the arrival of refugees in Iceland. It's almost so boring to read that you lose interest in this, it's about harmony in the system. But this is a great thing because what group is more likely to need harmonization systems and simple ones than just refugees who do not know our system, which is often a great jungle? Then there is information to be raised, that the Multiculture Centre is the source of information from Foreign Institutes, rural areas and other public agencies as appropriate and is permitted to provide relevant information and advice when necessary. That's all there is to it, Mr. President. It is surprising, however, where the discussion will take place when such issues are discussed. People who are here who may be in the position to need what is most supportive - we cannot agree to do the best we can. I had the privilege of visiting a new retirement facility in the days when a new immigrant counseling agency was being opened up and heard in the audience about the need for us to experiment in all these matters. When people in the sector are talking about this bill, they reveal what they should all be aware of. This is not really a suggestion for anything new or a U-turn or a change. Things are being sharpened and simple. Even though this bill could not be accomplished, a multicultural site would still be involved. It did not work out last time. Many places of mass culture continued to care for their assignments, but they did not do so well, they did not have the same authority. Now I'm not going to throw shame on Media House, not at all, Mr. President. I'm simply talking about the legal environment making it harder for them. That's what's at the highest. A minister has in mind when he brings up the bill, to the simple legal environment of the Multihuman Park, conform to the reception. The farms that become receptionist societies enjoy it, and refugees enjoy it. President. When it was clear that this would be on the program, anyone reasonable about the matter would never have thought that it would be a big matter, and here we would be for hours to discuss it. Everyone must agree that when we perform a second service, it is better that this service is efficient. No. Thinking that this is the case proves to be a lot of optimism for me. But for a long time, let man try. I'm thinking about how every language that has become the issue of immigrants or refugees or what it is, letting up a tank. The members of the Central Party who are not afraid to come here and talk about the matter with great ignorance. This is about the harmony of the reception of refugees. It's about intelligence. Those who oppose this bill are out of a different motive, not because they are against the effectiveness of services. It must simply be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u143	A respectable president. We'll discuss a simple matter, not very much, there are four articles with the entry plan. On the other hand, there has been some debate on the part of the conversation. The members of the Central Party, who seem to be opposed and opposed for reasons beyond belief, no matter what. I'd like to start by going over a little bit of the language that's been committed here today. The members of the Central Party are going to start at expenses. It's like the highest. The social and child - care minister went over many times earlier as the cost of legalizing this bill was 22.7 million. I think a reasonably large percentage of the audience owes more in their apartment home than that. It's not a lot of money for state funds. But what's wrong. The members of the Central Party are going to start talking about something other than this bill. They want to say that there are costs or more candidates for asylum and costs at the same time, something that really has nothing to do with this matter. You see, this case can be calculated and has been calculated as to how much will cost from the content of the bill itself, which is not far off. 1st par. misss 2 mg. Section 3. The law of the law, which is the law on the affairs of immigrants, follows two articles and then the validation law. These two articles discuss the role of a multicultural site. In short, it is about adding employees to match existing items. I'm going to underline this: Things that are already being done, things that are already being done, that finance already exists and that are not the result of this bill. And it won't change even if this bill doesn't work out. The only thing that will change if the bill fails is that the government budget can save up to 22.7 million, and the rest is that it will be more complicated for a multicultural site. That's all. Other things and more are not at stake. But, hey. Central Party members come up here and take advantage of every opportunity they can to talk about foreign languages. I don't think it's okay how they do it. I'm going to criticize it here. I know that they get very hurt at it, and I don't think it's challenging when I tell them what's wrong with their language in foreign languages, fight back and neck because I'm shocked to the point where I'm telling them that there's a different motive behind it. I'm just gonna say right out there that there's a different motive behind it. There's a lot more to it than that. The members of the Central Party speak of foreigners in the way they do for votes, in order to get votes from people who either do not know the sect, which is indeed the vast majority of people, or who are afraid of foreigners or their huge growth, or something similar. It is a prominent theme of the language that it is all right to have foreigners as long as they are not here. It's okay to help foreigners, just not here. They can adjust to society, just not here. A respectable president. It's just bad language, that's all. I remember that in the old days, or in the memory of my soul, back in the 1990's, there was a lot of talk about homosexuality and especially homosexual men. There were many I knew at the time who said they had nothing against faggots, just as long as they weren't close to them, as long as they were somewhere else. That, a respectable president, is not much better. When we turn people down, we're turning people down. It is no problem for people to see the worst views on foreign affairs and the affairs of minorities in general. People who have the worst opinions in that series of lawsuits, according to all the members of the council in this room, I dare say, however, do exist that the minority or the vulnerable group, whoever they are, may be elsewhere. The greatest Jewish haters feel it's okay for Jews to be elsewhere. So I don't give anything for the language we hear here that's so that foreigners can be real, they can get a whole service, they can live a good life, they can just go looking for a better life, just not around here, not around us. I'm not giving anything for this lawsuit. He's full of premiums, perfunctory propulsion. Embrace them, and be content with them. In order to try to give perhaps more evidence of my position, I want to point out three points. First, 2016 was not perfect for the alien law. There's no one, I think, in this council hall that thinks they're exactly on their own. There are many compromises, this is a large code of laws with many complexities and assessments and doubts that are difficult to look at and try to achieve a whole assembly together. Army accomplished it. It was hard. It's full of the law that's defective in my opinion and probably most of the people in this room, although we don't agree on the issues. When these songs were being discussed in the community, there was a rumor that we would lose control over the border and they would be glalopin,--in fact, they were told that they were glloped there before, but there's another story - this would be some hippie bill that would open the border and here would drown into foreigners. That was the speech. Actually, it wasn't available at the time, but there was a group named and may still be the Icelandic state I went here, happy memories, out to talk to the subject of the bill. I didn't do very well. The law was accepted, and somehow the story still lives in these Crevices that we have the gaping border. However, they must not be opened. Yet, it is so important to close people outside that we are closing out now, even though we have the gaping border. The contradiction is absolute, respectable president, and overwhelming. Hv. Central Party senators deliberately ignore it. This has been corrected many times. They continue to say the same wrong things knowing that they are wrong, and there is an ugly word in Icelandic language to describe that behavior, a respectable president. Second, the United Nations, never missing, will start doing things the way they do sometimes. Sometimes something succeeds with the United Nations, which is a naturally marvelously large, difficult organization. It is one thing to herd representatives of the animal field into the same room and another to get them to agree on anything. But 160 countries joined what is called the Marrakesh Release. This agreement was about developing some order, clarity, and appreciation, a global organization because, as now, people are moving, and much of them are irregular. They do not follow clear organization, on the contrary, sometimes it is a life - threatening journey over e.g. The Mediterranean Sea on a poor boat where a receptionist does not want to take people and wants to send them back. It's bad that people are in that situation, and that's why the idea of trying to have some organization on it and trying to improve international cooperation in order to get better into this category. Of course, the same voices again came out of the same direction that now we were going to open the border and lose all control of our legislation, and here, foreigners would be streaming into mass particles and everything. Of course, this was wrong and is wrong, but there were members of the Central Party who stood here and were concerned about this matter. And they continued after they had explained how it worked, when it was read and what it was done. It is striking that it is the Middle Ages and the Radio History, which somehow do not seem to be able to speak of this group in any way other than to misconsistecutable facts like those in this bill. Then I come to just the third item that's the bill. Here we go. The members of the Central Party are opposed to this bill, which is astutely strange as it is. Here's a bill that costs 22.7 million, as shown on page 6. 5. I expect that. The members of the Central Party know that since they've read the bill, I hear their talks. This has to do with the services of a more efficient organisation. It's not too scary. This is the goal that all members of Congress agree with me, knowing that it should make it easier for those who have the protection here to adapt to the Icelandic community for these individuals and Icelandic society. Rather, it is so funny, or remarkable, that when it comes to agreeing on regular missions, it really doesn't matter whether a foreigner's policy should be more liberal or conservative, or more liberal, or less inaccessible. We must agree that we want to be organized. But it was not then, for the very reason apparently the matter was about foreigners, and it had to be opposed. Take offense at any of these words, and be offended. So here's a case where we're all agreed on, I thought, we'd like to help people who come here, for whatever reason, to adapt to, not just for those individuals, but for Icelandic society as well. That it is easier for people to find a job that is appropriate, to learn the English language, to understand our culture, our governance, and where to look in the other situations. All of this varies from culture to country, and of course we want to help people to get their feet this way, for just the same reason we want children to go to basic school, a respectable president. But don't come back. Central Party members here say: We have to cut into primary school classes and stop teaching children to read because there's so much tax waste or we can make better use of it. A respectable president. The purpose of this matter is to help people to be part of an Icelandic community. There's a contradiction in worrying about people coming here and not participating in Icelandic society and being opposed to this bill. That's a contradiction. It is growing and it is overwhelming, and the purpose is completely clear: trying to win the votes of people who are afraid of foreigners and/or who don't understand the sect. In fact, I'd like to be very careful about blaming people for not understanding the group, it's big, it's complicated, and it's very variable. What was true five years ago is not necessarily true anymore, actually not at all. There are many things that change every year in this category and in many years. It is no wonder that people are ignorant of foreign languages, that it is a good job to get into them properly, even to people who have their jobs. There are a number of things that you can see in the debate. Central Party Parliaments, e.g. The fact that some of them would like to mean that members who come here and apply for protection are protected in another European country, such as Greece and Italy. People who know this group of subjects know that people with protection in these countries have only very bad and even worse than people who are waiting for an answer because at least they have some support for what they lose when they get the job. They live under terrible conditions in these countries, and the situation is frightening because Europe reacted to the refugee crisis in its time. All nations in Europe, or long - term, tried to push the problem on someone else, put the strain somewhere else, and, of course, it will fall into the outer layers of the relationship, see Greece and Italy. All of this is because Europe is not working together to cope with the pressures. That would be the solution. On the contrary, the mistakes made are not to have open borders but to put all the pressure on the systems and infrastructure in individual countries. All European countries, more or less, tried to have as little a share as possible in welcoming these people. That was the mistake, a respectable president. You're right next door. The members of the Central Party are expected to learn from our mistakes. We need to discern what the mistake is and what we will learn from it. I came up here not only to evict the Central Party for his surrogacy in this language as well as for foreigners in general but also to point out that it is a simple and small bill that includes the expense of a government fund we know and that appears on page 20. 5 on the bill, 22.7 million. It explains what this cost is. It's just a nice bill. Of course, I support it like people who read it and are not playing some political game, and I hope that they will succeed. I just reiterate that even if things don't work out, nothing will change unless life becomes a little more complicated in the Enlightenment, unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. He went here very much, and he often mentioned a middle-class name, and many things he said there are natural, not answerable, and very simple. But what I was going to do about it. A senator is the cost. Hv. A senator insists that the cost is only 22.7 billion. K. But the bill says, by permission of the President: A consistent welcome system is involved in ensuring refugees equal service, regardless of how it comes to the country... I've asked the highest. Ministers to whether this means the same service is granted to the eaters and those who seek refuge. He's said so, and it's been here. Then I would like to point out this point: Last year, 631 individuals received international protection and a mean cost from the reception of eaters, for a single person, of about 6 million. K. every year. If we multiply that number by 631, it will do 3,786 billion dollars, which this will cost the state's funds when this group, who have been granted a permit, gets the same service as the kooks. But now this group has had to wait, some of them for months, after receiving a living permit. This waiting period brings a large amount of cost. He was 3.5 billion last year. How do you get a what? A senator, then, that this is no raise when there is no mention of the cost that a government fund needs to make? It's all coming out of the same box. Senator, state funds. It comes from the same box and must be paid for the waiting period paid by the Foreign Institute. So when the group receives the visa, these costs are added, which is an increase in cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u145	A respectable president. It's like the highest. Minister has repeated several times, and I repeated here in a speech and I don't quite know how to explain better, so it's just not about that. The task that took place. A senator is talking about the same service for the trustees as when they get a living permit, not depending on the case. There's been a lot of words here. I don't know how to explain it any better, Mr. Honorable President. I know a few languages, but I can only use Icelandic here, I understand, in my position, and I can't explain it any better than this. That's what they've been saying. V.E.G. The minister made this very clear. This is a matter of increasing the organizational capacity of the Polydiversity. That's all. That's what this case is about. How much? 22.7 million, p. 5. I just don't know English any better, I'll explain it to you this way, Mr. Honorable President. Hv. A senator is confusing different things, as a minister has, in fact, complicated. That's all I can do, a respectable president. I have to leave it there as far as it goes. Hv. One senator noted that waiting time costs money. You're absolutely right. That is why we should shorten the waiting period, so we may also want to relax just a little by trying to keep people away from the country, for that is the cost of money. A respectable president. It doesn't cost the Poles to come in here by thousands because they can stay here. The cost is in the booth, just like that. A senator apparently clings to keeping people away from the country. That's where the cost is. Then, in terms of the cost of helping people adapt to Icelandic society, I think it's just such a weird approach to viewing it as some spending of money. It's what it is. A member of the body of the 631 persons who received a permit in the first article he mentioned - much so. A member of the Icelandic community would do better if these people had not been helped to get a job and had not been helped to study Icelandic and into the community? If it were saved, it would be. A senator? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u146	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I thought Pirats knew everything better than anyone else. That's at least Often this is not the case with them here at the council, but this is not the case because of the situation. A senator admitted that; he does not know better when I discuss this cost. That's just the thing. It is possible that the systems did not talk to each other. V.E.G. A social minister may not have discussed with the minister of finance on this matter, what the cost might be. Of course, two standards cost some 24 million. It's on the bill. But it's also on the bill, huh? A senator, that the same service is to be performed for the partymen and the trustees. That is a fundamental change of money. And I'm on a budget board, and I'm just thinking about government funds, it's gonna have to be in the way. Clearly, the cost is high. When this group receives a permit, they are added to the increased service, increased cost, at the expense of the group waiting for a permit. This is what I'm trying to explain to you. A senator, and he doesn't seem to understand and turns out of everything you say here, the highest. Mr President, because he doesn't want to understand. It's very simple. This means an increase in cost to the highest. A social minister is not concerned that he has nothing to do with it. It's all coming out of the same box, the state funds, the funds of all of us. We simply need to think about what lies ahead and the huge debt that the wealth of the state has to deal with. It is being opened up for a much greater budget in this category without any evidence of a cut - down point. Where's it going, anyway? A senator cutting down?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u147	A respectable president. Again, things appear to be inadequacy. The members of the Central Party's Council regarding the opinion of the foreign people Piratars. It's pretty weird, actually. Yeah, I'll take it, for instance, because I know something about the suit, it's a lot to learn, but I know something about him. Should I apologize for that? I don't know what it is. A senator wants from me in that regard. But again: I came here not to show my intelligence but to discuss the foreign languages myself, and especially this bill. As I have explained many times now and the highest. A minister has repeatedly explained that this is a challenge. A senator does not speak of the subject of the bill. The bill's contents are part of making it more efficient for 22.7 million, making it easier for people to enter Icelandic society. A respectable president. I don't know exactly how many times I have to repeat it to make it clear. Yes, the cost of foreigners is high. High - school education costs are also involved. The cost of sharing in the community is involved. I don't worry about the cost, whether they're talking or not. A senator noted, nor that this cost is a waste of tax money, because the cost is much higher in my opinion, not just financially, by leaving people alone, without being able to speak Icelandic or learn Icelandic in a good way, and without knowing how to turn to it, without being able to find work, without knowing their rights and responsibilities. It's an expensive, respectable president, and it's cost of course. A senator looks past if he wants to talk about the whole group of litigation or outside the bill. But as for the bill and its content, I challenge it. A senator, who may be unfair because we are here in the second, to find the article in this bill, which includes this indistinguishable expense. Where is she? The bill is four articles. Three material. She's not there, Mr. Honorable President. The cost of these articles is 22.7 million, estimated, as shown on page 12. 5. [[Up front.]] It doesn't mean anything to argue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u148	Increase cost...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u149	That doesn't mean you can't argue. But again, a respectable president: I know several languages, but I don't know English well enough to explain it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u150	Increased service costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u151	Mr. President. That's the way, except for the sledgehammer. A member of the Central Party and his members of Parliament in his speech would otherwise have been like a Sumarliði Man, who was once drunk. He said, with President's permission: I know everything, I understand everything, I do much better than piss off. Speak to the senator, i.e. The part of it that wasn't covered by the Central Party and his members, was based on this: I know, and I feel, and I think. It's all right, but there were no arguments. I hope I don't take offense. A senator, but I assume that he is an atheist and is not following the Messianic rule that we see here. I just can't figure it out. A senator has spoken that way and has acted in the way that he is an faithless man. Except for this, this case was exactly like this: I know everything, I understand everything, I do much better than piss at it. Hv. A senator also claims to understand the amount of money involved here, far better than anyone else. As a matter of fact, it's just a matter of retrospectives giving Pirates a credit score for accounting, and yet this whale comes. A senator here who says so. But what I wanted to ask him is, count back. A senator in the first place that the Central Party has set up branch offices in foreign lands, i.e. At the United Nations Refugee Organization and in the Danish Party? Because, in my opinion, he overrated the influence of the Central Party. With regard to the link between them, what the Central Party has been performing is exactly what these two institutions I have named in their case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the senator if he believes that the Central Party is involved in the influence of these two institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u152	A respectable president. The middle class is one of the social institutions that come out of the conservative population when it comes to foreign affairs, fostering alienities, consciously or unconscious, deliberately or unintentionally, by means of their presentation and unscrupulous standards that are being passed here. All over and over again, members of the Central Party, often corrected. Whether other institutions name Central Party or not, let me not say about it, probably somewhere, I don't know it, a respectable president, and I just don't care. The conservative and alienive tone is heard in many institutions, e.g. very much on a radio story, you hear a lot from the Middle Ages, and you hear a great deal of it, whatever its name is. It's not about my name that I know, a respectable president. I think I'm a middle man myself, anyway, if I'm in a mood. But the amount. A senator is here, apparently, with feelings of inadequacy that I know, doesn't come from my work, I didn't find it out myself, and I'm not so smart that I could figure it out if I didn't have a job at the highest level. Ministers and assistants to help me with that. It may appear in black on the page. 5 on the bill, 22.7 million. There it is. So I didn't need any more intelligence than reading the bill, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u153	Mr. President. I think everyone realizes that what is listed here as a cost in this bill is recruitment of two more employees in behalf of those who come for asylum and ask for international protection in Iceland. But that is not the amount below. No, the amount of money you're looking at here is that you're supposed to give the same help to everyone who comes here. That doesn't cost 22.7 million, huh? Senator, Mr. President. On the other hand, when you're up against a wall, there's an excellent ending in conversation and conversation, reasoning: I just don't care. It may be that humans don't care at all, but when we're at the Allied Parliament, it's the norm. Senators, we can't afford to care exactly because everything we agree with here and we do here has an effect. And if we don't care about the impact, then the decisions we make here won't be very good. Worse still, it affects the lives of others. When we've been talking about raising a foreign spirit, it's natural below all caves, Mr. President. [[Up front.]] But if we are to welcome people outside, we need to accept them with dignity. We need to accept the vast number of people that enable us to accept in a decent way the number of people around us who find themselves here. There is no hostility to it, and we have pointed to it very often, as the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, that much more can be helped by directing the resources available here to the homes of those around us who are facing them who are in great need. Therefore, I would like to ask the senator again: Has the United Nations Refugee Organization, which is responsible for this course, been so seriously wrong? Second, what about the oldest United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u154	A respectable president. I've been sick of the whiskers in the Middle Ages and similar conservatives because people say out loud what is obvious, that the middle party nurtures a spirit of foreigners, intentional or unintentionally, consciously or unconscious.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u155	This is wrong, this is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u156	- No, you're right. And what? A member of the council may know that whether he likes it or not, he is shouldering that responsibility. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u157	This is Pirates to shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u159	Hv. There's been a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u160	You just can't give up like that, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u161	I did it and will do it again, yeah. Senator. Hard work, here and beyond. [[Up front.]] For as I say, I am filled with sickness. The members of the Central Party come in here and think that they have no responsibility for the alien spirit that grows in the country as they maintain language and misinformation, trained and highly corrected foreign languages in Iceland. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] - No, I'm absolutely right, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u162	Hv. A senator has become, and I pray. Senators to guard their word.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u163	Hv. The members of the Central Party may know that if they don't want to sit behind this, they will stop doing this. Fair enough. They have to be responsible for their presentation, a respectable president. When they preach around the open border and crack a system, they are responsible for those words. That's the way it is and it stays. [[Up front.]] To question why. Senator. The bill's here. These are four articles, as I have explained. In 1st. disbanded from the Enlightenment Act on Enlightenment and Transmission of Information or Enlightenment. Two. discusses Media Centres and professional guidelines, advice, information, and putting your arms around and before consultation. Second piece 2. discusses information and 3rd paragraph. discusses small legal issues, one number has been changed, from 6 to 7, and 4. is a law of value. A respectable president. There is simply nothing in this bill that changes anything or no about whether the right to be granted the same service as the host or not. [[The president calls.]] This bill simply doesn't change it. It's an undisputed fact if you read the bill. [[The president calls.]] And if it weren't for the former case of the Central Party I've been here to criticize, then why. People not only know this and admit it, they would say it in a purse, rather than take advantage of the opportunity over and over again to promote a sense of foreigners in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u164	The president asks speakers to respect the time of the talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u165	Mr. President. I make serious comments to the President's conference board. It's annoying to sit here under the sledgehammer, as has been said here, and the president reminds the man complaining about it. It's annoying. What the president should have done is remind the speaker, who is making this presentation, that the members of the Central Party are following either a r or a f or a n in front of them. It's not like that, Mr. President, and it's a bad time to sit at ease. Councilmen hold such nonsense for the council and for the nation. That is why I challenge the president to find out about the members of Congress who present themselves in their public speaking and who are required to do so by the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u166	Mr. President. I'm coming up here because you can't sit around with these guys. Here we go. A senator who wants to be taken seriously and tells middle class members, including me, sales of foreigners. I strongly object, Mr. President. There's got to be some sort of trimming and deduction. I've come here to discuss the costs of this bill and what. A senator says I'm a stranger. That's just unscrupulous, isn't it? Senator, I want you to apologize for this. I'm on a budget board. I recommend that men show confidentiality in terms of government, and here's a bill that will result in substantial expense to the state's funds. I've traced it to my talk, and you come up here and tell me I'm a stranger. It's an unannounced presentation, my ass. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u167	A respectable president. I'm not gonna apologize for this. I just say things like I see them. Hv. The members of the Central Party can take offense at this, and if they do, I have nothing to do with it. I've seen it for years here at the General Assembly, how they come up here, and I've got the money to be offended because people say things that are obvious. Hv. The council members of the Central Party will cease the false talk that promotes the alien spirit of the land. I retraced here, whether it's deliberate or unintentional, conscious or unconscious, that it exists, and I will continue to criticize it there and whenever I want to. [[Up front.]] I refuse to apologize for how I present an unsurpassed presentation of the Central Party. That's enough of this. Just stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u168	A respectable president. I've found the President's conference board in this discussion was fine, no matter who it's been sitting here in the chair, whether it's the current president or the previous one. However, I have felt that this discussion was extremely sad. We're talking here, a respectable president, a small simple matter that focuses on the fact that the persons we as a community have authorized to come and stay in Icelandic society, whether it's just a greeting, or having come in here in some other way, are authorized to live in Icelandic society, receive a joint service in adjusting Icelandic society, learning about our community, helping with work and other things. A respectable president. This is all turned upside down as some sort of foreign talk, whether we are taking more or fewer individuals into the country. I just understand why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, however, drew these conclusions from the Middle Party's lawsuit because I do too. [[The president calls.]] I do, too, and I don't believe anything but that there are a lot more people who do. That is why I have felt that this discussion has come down to such a low level when it comes to bringing together a number of conflicting issues and shame in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u169	Mr. President. I'm still going to find the President's conference board, allowing it to begin with. The Minister of Social Affairs, and the Minister of Child Affairs, is about to come up to the President's conference board in a subject discussion. If the highest. A minister has something to do with the discussion, such as this, can place himself on the rosary, such as everyone else, and discuss the discussion. He thought the discussion was sad. He did not correct the situation by arriving here under President's meeting board. This discussion was even sader after he came up with this point. I say again: The patience of the President is admirable, but he is not to allow the material discussion that we are having at home, i.e. under the program. That's what I was going to find. The other thing is so different, I'm not going to cry out I'm not going to cry out that big guy. Ministers find something wrong with my ethics or my morals because he himself is on such things, and worse, before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u170	President. I'm going to admit, it's kind of fun to listen to what's happened. The members of the Central Party find out how other senators use the remaining members of the President's conference board. I spent many nights with them in this conversation about a pack of energy three before, and it wasn't as if it were all that we're being asked to do here. [[The president calls.]] But often a person sees the straw in a neighbor's eye better than the rafter in his own eye. Another saying I can think of right now is: If it goes like a duck, if it sounds like a duck, it's most likely a duck. I'm not surprised. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson draws the conclusions he has drawn from the discussion as it has been here. I'm going to declare my joy with the President's conference board. I felt that he had been very patient and had given us a measure of normal control, but at the same time, there was room for our opinions to be expressed. If people fail to tolerate the opinions of others on their own, they may not be in that chamber and be in their position.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u171	A respectable president. In fact, I had decided not to come up in this discussion simply because I want to avoid listening to the talk of the Central Party, and, in fact, many others too, but especially when it comes to this class. I wanted to thank the highest. Minister of Social Affairs for coming up here and saying the obvious things in this conversation, as well. paritaprevir Sir Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, as to when we would find a spirit correctly. But this approach, to be ashamed that people should point to the obvious things that everyone sees and hears, and that is the direct purpose of this entire group of Middle-class members, as well as so many things that come from them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u172	Mr. President. It has been an option for some of the delegates, especially, to come up, and to try to explain how much better their human beings are than the private pope. Now I hear some senator sighing in a side room, but it's just a matter of looking at the silver in their own eyes. I was in it for the last 20 minutes or so I changed my approach to my occasional talk in this case. I have found the discussion here, as we have seen, to be looking into the bill's supporters that there's just nothing to change. All of this was the real situation, and it would all be based on the misunderstanding of the Central Party that there was some additional cost. It is in itself that some members of the council here at the high council do not seem completely aware of the context of the parts. While it is a small and few articles in this issue, of course it has secondary effects. The resulting effects are what the members of the Central Party have been trying to point out today, including ... witha fineblownance of speech. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, our representative of a budget board, which, of course, will only come up here as an amulet of state funds. Here come members of Congress, some moaning in side halls, begging that there's some other viewpoint on the outside. So why don't people discuss the matter as it is, that a case like this has a secondary effect? Because that, of course, is what it has. If we first take the cost, which is listed in Article 6 of the report, the cost is reported to be 22.7 million, taking into account 700,000 dollars. cost of change. There is no disagreement that two places of status in the United States are worth about this. That's not the issue. The financial discussion of this issue is not about criticism that the cost to two employees is reasonably evaluated. We're in a hurry. Criticism and the debate we want to draw out are the secondary costs. If it's so that there's nothing to change, just nothing, if all the expense of the changed bill is already there, except for this 22.7 million, then it would be fine, because I'm at the highest. The minister is here in the side hall, and I give him up to the final speech, and no more will come to the speaker's file after my speech, after he reviews the way that this situation had developed. Chapter 5 of the report says, with permission of the president: The Social Services Department agreed on a team on the welcome programmes set on March 5, 2018, to follow the motions of the Commission on the concerted welcome of refugees. I have the report, which is the basis for this job. If you think that on the 46 pages there is nothing to call for secondary costs, I can't wait for an explanation to be explained. However, more interesting is the fact that this all has come into existence on the basis of government action in the meantime, since this proposal was made, as it reminds me that one of the emphasis that was clearly handled in the case of an independent party, restoration, and the bright future in its own time was similar. So it's no surprise to me. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, who came up here, was very pleased with the bill in his discussion about the President's conference board. But since that government exploded here one night, there has been nothing else in this case, as far as I know, but signing has been a contract with three rural communities on international protection services. This is Smokeytown, Hafnarfjörður and Reykjavík. It's gone up and down, so it's said a little bit. I have a copy of a meeting number. 394 at the Réjanestown Department of Health, which was held on January 13th of that year. I haven't been through a black reading since I checked the People's Accounting Report on a Lake Earth park that is another interest in the government to drive through, so it seems somehow all to the same well. The results of a four - page meeting program dealing with this issue are on the leave of a president: In view of the above, the Council of Health does not agree to negotiate with the National Institute of Iceland that Smokeynesv will take over the services at Linda Lane 536 on the basis proposed by the Agency. Thus, it is not as if it was in some direct and broad way. If this is the basis for the fact that everything has already become the way it is described, it would be interesting to know if it had happened with this deal with the communities. Another factor that might arise, which might make it even more strange that everything has already happened this way, is that a year ago, more specifically, on January 21, 2020, it was the highest. Ásmundur Daðason's social and child-friendly minister to recommend the same matter. In answer to the debate of history at the highest level. Minister will tell you what to do. paritaprevir The middle party Birgs Thorinsson - I did not get it either way today, but because it is available in print from a year ago, I printed it out for convenience: ▪ Now it says in a paper with the bill on page 5. 4, on impact assessment: ◯ By a consistent welcome system, you are working to provide refugees with equal services regardless of how they get to the country... Then they ask why. Senator: ▪ Is it true that those who come here to the country to get a permit get exactly the same service as the greeting workers? V.E.G. Social Affairs Minister responds just a year ago, with the permission of a president: I thank the senator for this inquiry. The thought of a concerted reception is to reconcile it. We're here to greet a host of people, and then they're coming to people who are granted leave on humanitarian grounds, et cetera. The changes being made with a uniform welcome are that all who enter here as refugees go on a similar path. This discussion took place a year ago, I think it's correct except for some date-change, it's actually unchanged, and here we are again. This is where people talk like there's nothing going on. There's no change in the bill. Then there are certain members of the council in a particularly unstable, halfhearted manner, and abated. V.E.G. President. Does anyone have to wonder if they sense what it is like to be trying to slip changes in this class through the system using a method that has often been described in connection with the potential European Community, using the samurai method, a bite at a time? I repeat, and I give myself the highest. Ministers return at the end of the discussion to discuss this, how this has developed, the emphasis proposed by the committee. It gave a report on the concerted welcome of refugees in January 2018, which is the basis for this bill, as stated in the preceding chapter of the bill, by permission of the president: The Social Services Department agreed on a team on the welcome programmes set on March 5, 2018, to follow the motions of the Commission on the concerted welcome of refugees. - It's that report. There are guidelines for the refugee committee on receipts and assistance to the groups of refugees. They say, by permission of the President, about the set of values and the administration: These values apply to the receipt and assistance of the groups of refugees that the government has decided to provide, dr. 51st par. Is God a God of Peace? No. 96/2002, with subsequent changes The main section of this series, with the permission of the president, continues to say: ▪ The aim of the rules is to provide guidance and guidelines for those involved in the hosting refugee groups that come under government command... So, there are sayatarians. Then, in 33 branches, there are various rights, standards, and conditions that are enjoyed by peddlers, and I don't make comments to any of them. The fact is, we should welcome those we welcome. But we're not supposed to get more involved than we can handle. In view of this, we should look to those who find it difficult in this context in their own territory, since most refugees will no doubt want to go back to their homes. In the direction of a refugee committee on receiving and assisting groups of refugees, support and rights are looked to and at 15. g., on the input of assistance with refugees, says, by permission of the President: Since its arrival in the country, most people are entitled to receive special assistance for a minimum of one year. Help with what refugees are entitled to, cr. However the rest of this section is: a. Budget support. b. Social counseling. c. Housekeeping, along with the necessary interiors and telephones. For example, education, especially Icelandic, motherhood, and community education. ... andschoolschoolindepth. B. empty-hour job. g. health care and dental. h. Service interprets. i. Help with the job search. j. Another needed help. All right, but it's about vagrants. Now the discussion is today, at the highest. Ministers, members of Pirata, convergence, and reverend, actually, in the President's conference board because we were not able to see a reason to participate in the debate, all of which say that it is all long ago. We represent the Central Party, we're just getting the wrong idea. All these rights are long available for the groups that fall under the bill set here. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to briefly review the manner in which that happened. Did this happen by a contract with these three rural communities, with no involvement in the United States? Or did it happen in some other way? For some reason, we were discussing this same matter a year ago, and it hasn't changed. V.E.G. President. My speech is about to expire, but I just want to end this: All talk that there's nothing to be done with this case underscores that those who speak in that language do not understand the context of the parts do not realize that the bill can have a secondary effect. The financial impact debate here is not about two employees of a Multi-Same House, which I welcome to sit with the new director of this institution at Isafjörður. I'm going to finish this: It is not an acceptable discussion to argue that nothing is happening unless people explain in what way the situation changed significantly from the fact that the direction of the refugee Commission on receiving and helping refugees was published and since the matter was discussed here a year ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u173	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place on this matter today. I'm going to try to answer some of the material comments that have been made, but also to respond to the political cones that have been struck here in the chapters of some members of the council. First, I'd like to say that a united reception is based on equalizing the status of those who arrive in the country. It is based on the fact that we are in a certain way minimizing the services of newcomers while adding services to refugees who come on their own but who have already received a position in the community. It is vital that we give similar services to individuals who have entered the community, and we are about to receive them. This will take place within the framework of budgets, within the framework of financial programmes, within the financial resources that the Ministry of Social Affairs has this year and is expected in a financial programme for the next year. To some extent, we are based on law from 1991, where rural societies have been at the expense. Society is responsible in a certain way for those who have entered the system. We can then discuss whether we are allowing too many people into the system or too few, but society is responsible for people who have entered the system. Thus, there is a responsibility among political groups that speaks of not giving any persons into the system the privilege of teaching them Icelandic, community instruction, etc., that is what we are adding now. That is why they come to the conclusion that the political party is lying in some form of alienity, as it was called. I do not get to understand why, on the basis of law, a person should be allowed to participate in the community. We are not talking about individuals who still have applications in the system who have not received their positions approved, etc. But I just don't understand how anyone can object to the fact that a person who has entered the community is learning English or learning in Icelandic society. One who thus feels that he has some strange motives, that is, at least, my opinion. We can then discuss how wise it is to welcome many people and how we do so and at what time we complete applications, etc. It's just another conversation, a whole different law. Here we are moving this into that form, and the rural communities have long called for, that services to these individuals can be maintained in the same way, i.e. Those in our neighboring countries are the people who have been given a position. Actually, we're walking shorter than our neighboring countries in this regard. In Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Denmark, all of these countries, rural society will be paid from the state for the services of these individuals and for helping with social adaptations. In Sweden and Denmark it is, in fact, that rural society does not have the option to participate, they are to participate. We're setting this up as a selection project. That's why society's getting involved in it now. Here we assume that this will be a one - year trial project and that we will use that year to learn. In Norway it is three years; in Sweden it is two years; in Finland, three years; and in Denmark, three years from the government. We're going on a experiment project with a couple of locals for a year to see how we're doing. There are opposing individuals who have entered the community. The values discussed are that of a couple with what they are talking about in our neighboring countries. In some ways, this is the cost of already falling into place today based on local community service legislation. In some respects, this is the expense that comes in and we reach space within the framework that will be provided by the Department of Social Affairs in the next few years. But we do this for a year to learn from it. We also believe that, and our rural communities believe that these people can be helped not only to adapt more fully to Icelandic society but also to make better use of the capital and the active force. We base this on the guidance of the regulations that were issued in 2014 by the current Ministry of Health for Refugees and Companys, which have been in line with the same rules since then, and that in the time of the Government, Sigmunds of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the current head of the Middle Party, which then speaks loudly and clearly against this same adjustment today, he speaks of men being forced to do so when he is back in the other direction. I'm completely out of understanding this. I have not been classed here at the General Assembly, who wants to open up any portal when it comes to refugees and such. I've always said, "It's very important that our community can help people to adjust. ' Actually, I'm not only worried about refugees but also about Polish society, Lithuanian society, etc., that we don't do enough to help people learn English, learning about our community. Therefore, I do not understand why at the National Assembly of Iceland is one group that seems to be completely against it. Therefore, I cannot help but draw the conclusion that behind it is some kind of politics, that men are fishing in cloudy water by votes. Then try to do so on the basis of discussing not letting others into the country instead of saying to those who have entered the country that you do not want them to learn. What do people who don't want people we've approved of inland get help with Icelandic, get help with learning into Icelandic society? A respectable president. That's right, as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason earlier said that this project is initiated on the basis of the procedure we had with 2014 that we are now adapting to cooperation with our societies, as I said earlier, and harmonizing. That work is on the move. But this bill has come to focus on making it simpler. It has to do with making this work more specific so that we can keep up with the experiment year in which we are going; that the mass culture site, located on the ice level, and to promote, will be able to carry out this experiment for a year, this experience, so that we can learn from it. But if they don't want to learn from it, if it serves some political purpose not to do it, I don't know what to say. Why do we not want the individuals we have entered the land, the individuals who have been given a standing here on the basis of a law adopted by the General, a foreign law? I don't understand. But we can then take up the discussion about how many people we can help to adjust to Icelandic society and how to establish capital priorities when it is time to do so. But how should we know how many people can be helped if we do not even want to assist them? The members of the Central Party speak? A respectable president. Other than that, I hope to cooperate well with a health committee on the matter after it goes there, hoping that this matter will be settled from the Council. I believe the Party of the Central Party will see in this matter. I'll be late to believe that the group that speaks for Icelandic language, speaks for Icelandic society, doesn't want to participate in helping these same people to adapt to Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u174	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the final speech. There are some questions that came up during the time of the Supreme Court. Minister was here in a pita, but first of course, I have to come into that bullshit, which is the highest. A minister here regularly suggests that the Central Party and Central Council have doubts that it is good for immigrants to learn Icelandic. It's like being stuck in the theatre of the absurd listening to this shit in the highest part of the world. Minister. Let us, though, leave it to each other. V.E.G. At the beginning of his talk, a minister approached, but I wanted to ask, " How will the greeting be reduced? ' So I can't find a place in the bill, so it'd be interesting if it was the highest. Minister wanted to explain it to me. V.E.G. At the same time, a minister introduced the issue, as it were, to escape within the framework of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and to the highest degree. Minister for the financial frame of the Department of Social Affairs. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there are any uncertainties in this matter as he sees it in addition to the 22.7 million listed in the bill. Third, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of whether he values the rights of the trustees has an impact on the number of applications or whether the number of applications is controlled by anything else altogether.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u175	A respectable president. I'm gonna start off with these questions from behind and start with the one that had it. A senator last mentioned whether I thought the bill would have the effect that the number of applications through Foreign Institutes would greatly increase. If you look at the support we have in our neighboring countries, in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark, all running on the same system as this - if you look at the duration there, e.g. In Norway, it can go up to five years as a fugitive is receiving services from a local society with the support of a government fund. We're gonna do some experiment work for a year. I don't have that faith. A senator, that it will produce a marvelous bomb when it comes to applications. We're not changing the law on entry. The foreign law isn't changing anything about this. However, the reason why we have this as a one - year experience project is that there may well be uncertainty about this. That's why it's only for a year's trial. Senator. That's why we're looking for the locals to go on this test project to gain knowledge and experience. What is the best way to do this? What does this have to do with anything else, etc.? Every time you're doing something new, there are uncertainty factors, and they know why. A senator himself had been engaged in professional affairs and other activities. There's always uncertainty when you're doing something for the first time. I'm not going to reduce the fact that it can be the case, so it's only one year old. Third, ask why. A senator who is being changed. We're harmonizing a particular service. I mention to form dental services, psychology services, and other items in which earmarked amounts were in the same way as the system had to do with hostilists. [[The president calls.]] We're agreeing with the local rules in each case. The rural population is taking that cost in a certain way, but we have other factors to meet, and all of this can be seen in treaties that have been dealt with by some societies.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u176	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'd like to ask him to do a little more research on the point of destabilizing the service of people who are in the country. To me, an interesting answer was the highest. Minister on how this turned even. that the contracts for dental services I get so that those enjoying rights get different dental services between countries. Could it be that there are differences between rural areas in what people's rights are about getting to the dentist? The other thing I'd like to ask the highest. In view of the lack of order for him to influence the number of shelters, it is reported from January 19, 2021, nearly a month old, from the Foreign Institute of Iceland, of their websites, that mostly most of the applications for protection are applied in Iceland. It's just that the proportions are completely incredible. We are six times the number of applications in line with Norway and Denmark, and at the same time, Prime Minister Danmerk is saying that there is a will to be done in order to allow no one to apply for asylum in Denmark. We have six times more applications. I'd like to ask, because it's the highest. A minister does not seem to think that the order of order will have a major impact on this, how he will explain it. Is that the weather? Or what are those who seek refuge in a minister's opinion? Could it be something other than the orderliness and rights? There are six times as many people here applying for asylum as in Norway and Denmark. Does a minister know any explanation for that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u177	A respectable president. It's no problem to send a dog. A senator of the agreements made with these rural communities to receive the greeting of the people. These changes are being made so that the health costs paid for six months simply depend on the company's rules. It is not a matter of hiring a special project manager in the matter of enterprising people. Rather, it depends on the job to coordinate the reception. Another cost depends on the local community's general rules for these issues, the receptional group in which the person is involved. Of course, some may vary. But that's just the way it is in Iceland, even for Icelanders, there's a lot of difference between rural society, but you've got a few rural communities working on it. That is where we come to the core of this discussion. This is not about the growth of refugees, it's not about that. I don't believe that here we are creating such an impulse, with a one-year trial assignment in Iceland, while Norway has five years, that it will cause a huge increase in applications here. I don't believe that. I don't believe that the fact that we're installing community education and Icelandic education, which is now a novelty, has led men to make a big decision to come to Iceland. But there may be something in the foreigners'law that we need to consider, but it does not have to do with this work here. It's amazing if that's the case. But it will be seen in this year of trial. There is no opioids, after listening to this discussion here today, to consider what brings back to a group that speaks against experiences that highlight giving more community instruction to immigrants who have been given positions. [[The president calls.]] What makes a party against it? I'm just saying again and people think it's innuendos: I'm standing in a hole, I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u178	A respectable president. This is where I propose a case that is very simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u179	Just wait.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u180	Hv. A member of the Central Party, Bergþór Ólason, calls out here in: just wait. But for the sake of fun, I'm going to recommend here for a bill to correct a set of laws on how to handle the equipment, method of loyalty and security at work, in relation to the work hours of employees who provide personal assistance to the user. In general, these laws have sometimes been referred to as the Protection Act, and I will make it simple in this discussion of my life. During the cooperation of state, rural society, and the overall association of disabled persons on the part of user - controlled personal assistance, there were also temporary forms of work protection. It stated that with an agreement between the labour market parties, it would be permitted to deviate from the laws of the law on resttime and the night hours of employees who served individuals on the basis of the project. In 2018, when a law of proselytizing services to disabled persons with long - term needs, the time of the provisional principle in the Labour Code was extended to December 31, 2019. Time was then extended to 31st of December 2020. This was done where the provision was necessary so that there could be negotiated a variation of the work time rules for services to disabled persons with long - term needs, given the work of employees who provide personal assistance. A respectable president. It is important that disabled persons be able to receive personal assistance in harmony with the laws that have been set up for such service. At the same time, it is important to evaluate the work conditions of the employees working in such a service, but increased rights cannot be minimized otherwise. In view of this, I appointed a committee in which the workforce body members and the workaholics have representatives. The Committee is aimed at suggesting changes in the laws or regulations, as appropriate, in terms of the rights and working conditions of the employees. Has the committee even. conducted a survey of employees in charge of the service. In a speech that the committee sent me in November. arrive at least 3 a.m. to assess the Committee to review the work period of employees who provide personal assistance with user support in relation to other aspects related to the work of the relevant employees, such as details related to the management contracts, events related to the sudden premature death of employees due to their own illness or child's illness, travel users in the service and hospitalisations of the users, to name something. In view of the fact that I have intended to delegate to a group of people to accept a law on services to disabled persons with long - term needs for overall review, the committees mentioned above have suggested that they and a planned team work together for the future relief of the service organization, which will be considered to be of both the interests of the users of the service and the employees who provide it so that the objective of the service will be met as well as that employees have the rights for the general organization of the work in this country. I suppose the Committee and the Workgroup will then offer suggestions on how these matters will be best handled in the future. If the conclusion has to be made, I hope that the next winter it will be possible to submit a bill to the Council for a permanent change in legislation. In the meantime, there are elections, but I think the project is agreed between the two parties that it should not be damaged. The bill is therefore requested to ensure that during the period above work periods the work hours of workers who provide personal assistance in the way of a law for disabled persons with long-term needs to be expected without any interference from the protection laws being greater than the need for working hours for those who render the service. Thus, in view of the above, it is assumed that the time of the provision for temporary work protection will be extended from January 1, 2021 to the next year. A respectable president. I'd like to say here that it's certainly disappointing that there were no agreements between conflicting views. But this is not quite a simple case, since the Labour Code has been somewhat sacred, I would like to say, when it comes to certain rights for resttime, coffee time, lunchtime, working days, etc. But the services given through the NPA agreements are, in fact, nearly impossible to control within the protection laws. It is safe to say that for the request that the arrangement be extended once more, it is agreed and settled, both with the employees of the labour markets, but also with the interest groups that speak for and fight for the rights of disabled people. That is why I stress that the bill will be approved for the benefit of the staff and the individuals who use their services during this work that I discussed above. I then suggest that after this discussion, the bill be referred to why. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u181	Madam President. In a way, there's an old acquaintance here, if not just an old friend, except friends are usually arous guests, but I can't quite say it applies here, Madam President. The minister mentioned that the matter was settled, but I'd like to turn it over a little bit: Is the minister pleased with what has been reluctant to finish, how late it's gone? In fact, this is how you've tried, if you've got your eyes open, you'll have to solve these knots for one five, six years when all is counted. Well, it's not good enough, and I don't quite know where the Minister is getting the optimism that they're gonna be able to solve this before the fall, but hopefully it's right from the highest level. Minister. I'd like to ask the highest, too. The Minister whether the Ministry has information on how many employees are under there and, in fact, submits some of their rights in such a way that it is not taken care of. Personally, I think it's getting kind of sad. I'd like to take in the Minister after the two, i.e. whether he is satisfied with the slowness that has been involved and then whether the minister has information about the number of people involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u182	A respectable president. The answer to the first question about whether a minister would be pleased with this inflexibility: No, he's just dogish and he'd want to see it go further, but that's the way it is. I've asked the Ministry to see what it's like in our neighboring countries where there's a similar service. It seems very difficult to put your hand on it too, and it seems that you just can see through your fingers with this, that it is in a gray area in which you are meeting the protection laws in this regard. But I don't have an accurate number. I was asking the Ministry for the information, exactly how many people there are. But after this bill is approved, of course, there is no natural violation of the OSH law because we are giving an exception to this arrangement. Still, it is important that we find our place in the future or in the future. It's been rolling for a few years. You want to look into this in the context of another overall review, but it's just as likely that this will be solved in the next 12 months as well as in the last three years, or it will end by solving. At any rate, however, there was agreement on wishing that this would be done, so the minister agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u183	Madam President. I think there is reason to commend the highest. Minister for optimism. It's better to be optimistic than hopeless, and hopefully this will work. That's why I think it's so important, and the highest. A minister has previously had a word against me about the same matter, that I am afraid of the project, the user - controlled personal assistance, permanently if we are not able to solve the problems that these employees have truly had. That's not good enough. I'll figure it out as the highest. A minister mentioned earlier, that is not an actual violation of legislation, of course not. I don't think that's the way it is, but I've agreed to these preliminary regulations repeatedly here at the council, but the situation isn't what we wanted it to be. I'd like to later object to inside the minister to see if there was ever a talk, because of what this has been done, to put the matter simply in a form, to hide some sort of penance or such, and then to warn whether or not at any time in the process came up to talk, to try to pressure on the hands, to simply decide to decommission the rights of some sort of bill for these employees, to meet their rights, because we can't exactly talk about rights when allowing another law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u184	A respectable president. Yes, I am a natural optimism. But as for this work in general, I have not felt that there is no willingness to solve the problem. It's not like this, let's say, steel in steel stuff like you know in cases that are accustomed to making a statement. However, I think that first of all there is a impossible way to perform this service and leave it within a frame. The nature of the ministry is such that it is very difficult to have, e.g. 6:30 and then lunch again, you know. It's impossible. Second, because something is not being cut down on one thing has to be found some kind of future arrangement. I think that's best found by trying to keep up the conversation and look for ways to get it out of the system and that we'll extend the preliminary principle. But I think it will be also difficult for the unions to give anything left in contracts, e.g. to preach a period of rest that may have taken decades to fight. You don't want to open it either. That is why it is being suggested to postpone the one more trip. I hope we can find a good future arrangement, and these members can use the time when we are in elections and campaigns and then recover from that and form new governments and other things, and then this committee can work and propose a new assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u185	A respectable president. This bill is proposed to extend a provisional law in which, according to the labour market agreement, it is lawful to deviate from the Sabbath. It is preliminary to compromise the staff rights legislation in order to provide important and essential MPA services. This involves primarily those who render service on the basis of the laws to those who are disabled with long - term needs, as well as those who use the ministry. While it is necessary, of course, that NPA services and no disagreements can be provided, end a tremendously important service for those needing it, the fact that there is repeated continuation of provisional regulations to disqualify or to imitate the rules of the law on rest at all. Remember, this is, of course, a provisional principle. I think I'm right, a respectable president, that twice in the past there have been an extension of these temporary laws, first at the end of 2018. Even then, the problem was clear. The board of welfare that it would be of utmost importance for this to be examined, a permanent solution to be found, and a law set in the first, since this situation was not to be restored to the Council to the position of having to cancel such temporary laws one more time. In a speech on that occasion, my coworker, w. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, that she certainly hoped to do so, stressed that it would be fixed as soon as possible by the president's permission: ▪NPA support has been in an experimental phase for quite a few years. This is a work that should have taken place much earlier so that we would have been prepared for some vision in these matters and would not have to agree with temporary regulations again. She stated that in view of the decision to reduce time to one year, we could make sure that these work started out and would start off well, so that we would not have to deviate from law on sleep and night work time, but we could find a lasting solution that worked for NPA users, as well as those who render the service and work on it. President. It ceases to be a preliminary law when it is arranged, as it is true, that there can be an extension of the infinite. Of course, this is not a good practice, nor is it honorable for such important rights. But I trust that my optimism will prevail. Minister of tarron on top, and this case shall be solved for the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u186	V.E.G. President. I recommend here a bill to correct alcohol change, No. 75/1998, Drug and Alcohol Relations, No. 86/2011, and State Fund extras, No. 88/1991, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests that smaller mudhouses will be allowed to sell alcoholic beverages at the manufacturing site to the sale site, but thus there will be legalized by a single license from the government's private sale of small liquor. During the past decade, smaller mudhouses, so - called hand mills, have increased worldwide. Cartilages are large structures that highlight less production, quality, and independence. In 2018, the National Association of Icelandic handicrafts was founded, with over a third of the smaller cartels of the organization. At the same time, an increase in domestic farms has been seen and the public's interest in domestic alcohol production has increased. It re-refuses it, including in a substantial increase in Icelandic alcohol products, especially alcoholic beverages. The bill seeks to support further growth and development in the environment of smaller rockhouses in Iceland with a small step. In addition to increasing variety of goods selection, farmhouses have created new jobs, especially in the country, and new instruments in the Icelandic economy. With this bill approved, a operator will be allowed to sell alcohol at the manufacturing site, which is a volume not more than 12% of pure alcohol at a retail site. Only smaller rocking houses can get a license, but the terms for granting the permit are that the applicant does not produce more than 500,000 gallons of alcohol on an calendar. A respectable president. Despite the fact that there are over a third of tens of farmhouses in Iceland's hand mills, alcohol production is not a high proportion of total alcohol production in Iceland. If the bill of the law and sells alcoholic drinks at the manufacturing site in a local retail site, it will include a relatively small increase in selling alcohol and it can be assumed to sell on the basis of a product saleer's license to be primarily involved in the travel services of the license holder. In addition, the proposed change may also be expected to support the sale of the permit holder in the neighbouring environment. However, in this regard it should be noted that the manufacturer's manufacturing centres are generally not located at the standard store. In any case, it may be expected that the change will strengthen the management of smaller farms, especially in the country, which have difficulty putting their products into the ATVR. In accordance with the import, manufacture and total drinking requirement, the bill is suggested to allow for the sale of alcoholic beverages at the manufacturing site to allow them to do so. CDC will supervise the permit and police, customs and tax authorities will supervise the operation. The minister will require further details about the permit unit and the surveillance of the permit holders. The bill assumes that in addition to the general requirements for granting alcohol consumption, there will be an increased requirement for the granting of the marketing authorisation. The holder of such a permit needs to have a manufacturing permit and the businessman should seek the fame of the local community. At that time, local governments will have a decision on whether a small sale will take place within the country's society and how. V.E.G. President. The bill agrees with the views of those who want to increase their freedom to a store with alcohol as well as those who choose a conservative alcohol policy. The bill does not interfere with the role of the State's liquor store, does not include suggestions for changing alcoholism, focus on public health, or the government's income in this area. This bill does not suggest any changes in the quality of alcohol consumption in the Icelandic community, but it is now a way to allow only small amounts of alcohol at the manufacturing site. Despite increased sources to sell at alcohol, expected by the bill, alcohol advertisements will still be banned, and any commercial business involving alcohol will still be in the hands of the State liquor store. Hence, the bill does not involve fundamental changes in the law of alcohol in the country. If the bill to the law is not thought to have a significant impact on the public health of the people, despite the increase in alcohol sales. Over the past few decades, the number of alcohol sales has increased significantly, with little meaning for both the number of HST stores as well as the number of wine - feeding places and waves in many countries without a corresponding increase in alcohol consumption among the people. Supported even to report from the surgeon general's office on alcohol consumption in Iceland. If the bill does not have the law, it is expected that this will have a significant effect on the survival of a trust fund, and it is not expected to affect the economy of other rural communities, but to increase the overall well - being of areas where a house is located. As a team in the preparation of the bill, the basic returns to changing alcohol laws were published by the government on November 29, 2018, and again on September 28, 2020. The primary material estimates that concomitant production licenses would be allowed to sell alcohol at the Web site. It is obvious that an inconsistencies between domestic and foreign commerce are a serious issue that is unfair and that is contrary to both the manufacturer and the consumer's interests. The fact is that the Icelandic consumers can order alcohol from foreign liquor stores, mostly through the websites, but not from similar local stores. Few examples can be found in Icelandic law, where it is permitted to buy goods from foreign trades to import but to avoid buying the same product of Icelandic commerce. The proposal for a license to sell alcohol at the Web site thus suggested that the current arrangement met with modern demands of equality and was proposed to change the law to ensure it's equal between domestic trades and competitions. The change, however, did not succeed, and it was a provision for the sale of alcohol at the Web site taken out of the bill. When the bill was prepared, there were ways to analyze the viewpoints and comments that followed the publication of the bill twice in government consultations. The bill represents rights protected from 65th and 75thres. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. The bill helps to strengthen job freedom and equality in the light of the above principles. Whether it is possible to confer on certain domestic alcoholic manufacturers on a small supply of alcoholic beverages at the manufacturing site was considered. The European Economic Area Convention. The conclusion was that it did not. A respectable president. Alcohol today is legal, but for decades the Icelandic states have chosen to impose restrictions on alcohol abuse in public. March 1st. 32 years have passed since beer was allowed in this country. He had been banned for more than 70 years, but at the same time, it was legal to drink here much stronger alcohol. I think I can claim that few people would think of returning to the time where Icelanders drank beer in foreign lands and only a few selected groups were allowed to take beer to the country. But this was the case for a long time in which special and more strict rules were in this country than in any other country. Many promoted the practice of beer, and in that opposition some comments fell down that have not grown well. The dark images that were then drawn have not been reality, but they are primarily a reminder to us that we are out of our role in people. The bill presented here involves a great improvement in the course of freedom. We are to rely on people to make decisions about their own lives, and they need to be a very specific reason to limit the freedom of the public to these and other matters. The bill ensures a greater equality and provides a lift for small communities. It is presented here as a challenge from a number of sources, small mudhouses, farms, and management companies, many of whom feel that they have not been caught here in the network with alcohol. As a general rule, I don't think the government should decide what to do, whether or how the people of the country will drink their drinks, and that the state should focus on anything other than inhibiting national authorities in the normal trades of this country. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u187	A respectable president. Here is an excellent deal, a step in the right direction, and a figurative way to the will of the minister who puts it in the way of freedom. The step is shorter than the appearance at first, it must be recognized, shorter from the beginning of the idea. This was a bill of changes in alcohol law, which proclaimed what is being proclaimed here, a store sale, as well as a net store. The Internet store was in the big context of the big step, and it's been gone, like the highest. A minister correctly explained this. Now the matter is taken solely to provide house - to - house permission to sell waves, alcohol, beer. This is to meet the requirements of smaller alcohol manufacturers, especially in the country, as attributed to the case, but should be possible, at least Later, in more places than the country, though these places are primarily out in the country. In some cases, it is authorised to sell alcohol in a consumer exchange, which means that a drinking manufacturer is allowed to sell at the source of his own production at a consumer restaurant, which is then for use in other places than when visiting the rocking house. I am pleased with the reasoning as if it is drawn up in a report on the case, which attributes tens of the smaller rocking houses to activity all over the country. The rocking houses produce, as we know the wide variety of products, with appeals to local and cultural conditions at the same time. It explains that we have been looking at legislation elsewhere in the North countries and that I think it must matter to quiet the concern of those who properly refer to public health grounds for alcohol sales, that Iceland is clearly attracted to the fact that Iceland is not to invent its bike here but, rather, the standard practice of the rest of the north, that in neighboring countries of Iceland, smaller shelters where it is generally allowed to sell alcoholic drinks or beer in a small sale but with different regulations in each country. This was particularly attributed to the view that there were laws in Finland and that in 2018, Finnar set up laws in which this step was taken. The step is good and in freedom, but I'd say it's mainly a good start, and as I originally made clear in my mind when you look at the subject as it was first introduced, and branches of the highest. Minister on this case and this seminary, to want the highest order. A minister stood to do more, taking greater steps than what is taken in this matter. I think I know why the case has changed since then. She is here dressed as one of her colleagues who may be able to endure in living together, and the more conservative forces in cooperation may not go much farther than this one does. But it's good as far as it goes. The smaller mudhouses, if you put it in context of what has been going on in Icelandic tourism, have in recent years built up tourism around their business. Of course, because these arguments may be heard at times whether there is any need to take any of the steps this would especially apply to the country. There are most of the jobs around this business. I agree with what the bill recognises and expresses itself, that this is being a direct and indirectly contributing factor in promoting employment in the country. In that light, this issue at the same time is also positive. It has been attributed to the common fact that a brewing house offers organized tours of production sites for currency and visitors on these trips, so far, no alcohol was allowed in a retailer at a consumer market in these places. Smaller nests are, as we know today, with a wide range of species produced in small amounts or temporarily. As a result, a competitive environment has developed in which smaller mudhouses, which are harder to sell to consumers than to larger competitors. I think that's got to be an important point because it's a product that's on the market. In this regard, I would view the very essence of this matter as a healthy environment of competition. Therefore, I feel that while we are dealing with alcohol, it is not entirely impossible to ignore the views of competition there, although, of course, alcohol gives other laws other than those of any other product. I'm going to make it special that it is, of course, that it is, of course, and childishness not to admit it, that these products and her consumption are many problems. Of course, the costs of individuals as well as of society as of alcohol are high, and this is why alcohol levels and regulations apply to them. This, however, is a market product. I believe the step being taken here will help to make the market with these products more healthy than it was before. Of course, the part involved in the Internet store also included a form of approach to national and international competition, to balance the situation between domestic and foreign countries. But I would like to finish my case by saying that the rest of my life is certainly positive and good, and will be a blessing as far as it goes and will support a smaller house. I can't wait to take part in a discussion on this matter in the General and Education Committee when the case arrives, but I support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u188	President. Thank you. A senator for the record. It is good to hear such clear support. Of course, it is right. A senator says, our neighborlands were seen. When the Internet store part was in charge, it was a bit similar to the way Finland went to keep equal between domestic and foreign goods. At the same time that they helped with the crafts, they helped other beer at a certain other store so that foreign goods would not compromise their feet but the domestics, which had been made high below their heads with the changes in hand mills. There's something like that. A top-of-the-art Board of Education needs to be examined. Like what? A member of the U.S. consumers may order alcohol from foreign liquor stores or, in fact, from everyone who does not have a legal home in Iceland, within a few days. Of course, it is shocking that legislation is in such a way that the Icelandic people are looking for a way out of sending their Icelandic alcoholic ale to order it back. And we can see that, of course. I thought that the chairman of the relationship of a young independent couple was well spoken of in an article she wrote. She said it was a smoke-diving public health, which may have resulted mainly in environmental effects. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she will take this discussion into consideration. I don't think there's a modern demand for equality. The national situation may be even worse today, but when the bill first went into consultation at the end of 2018 and even more reason to help national authorities sell legal consumers themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u189	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the counter-sponsored. I've read this case. My understanding of this is that the focus of an Internet store concept is just the equal sense of competition and competition, that in itself it is easy to believe that a network store with this product should not be there. But if she's around, then domestic and foreign parties must sit at the same table. I realize that this is always a delicate matter with regard to public health. In view of the reality of this product, I already think it is a discussion that we must take into account. The General Committee. Like I said, I support this case and I like it, but it's a little shy liberal in my mind. It's also interesting to hear the highest. A minister declares it over his own bill that it is at the threshold of meeting the issues of equality with the changes it has made.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u190	A respectable president. This was especially why I fought for months for getting the bill through with the other change, to ensure these different views, but also to ensure that the other handmade rocking houses and those who are members of the carpentry organisations could get another way for their product, those who are for making a higher alcohol percentage, or who are producing anything other than an alcoholic party. This too was to ensure that. Because of what? Of course, a senator's approach to public health is interesting to note that research shows that alcohol can contribute to an increase in consumption. However, there are no studies showing an increased bioavailability of alcohol to promote an increase in alcohol consumption. We can see this in lands where alcoholism is the hardest, and many who do not drink alcohol because of their faith. Among those who drink alcohol, alcohol abuse is often the most frequent. It is interesting to consider this in terms of the public health issues, but also the fact that there have never been more alcohol users in the state, the opening time has never been longer, the wine licenses have never been increased rapidly in recent years, but alcohol consumption, alcohol abuse, has not increased. We'll see that in numbers from the surgeon general, as I directed. Of course, it needs to be taken into consideration. Should we have a very taxing law on the part of our people? For what? Or should we rather spend the money on prevention, which, in my opinion, works much better than these kritters that the Icelandic Internet store is going to be all over? The situation is this, and it is very clear that alcohol can be purchased from a foreign Internet store and obtained within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u191	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister a second answer. I agree with her that there is a need for evidence when the public is in part going to cut open competition on a free market. I also know these reasons for its use and use of alcohol, which I believe may, for example, be necessary. refers to the beer itself at the time. To say that, of course, I think public health is very important to many people that they need to get their focus on the discussion. It has to be acknowledged that this is a matter that affects many painful nerves, so to speak. According to that, we seem to agree basically on what is normal regulations and guidelines on this market. But because of the highest. A minister would now mention freedom and liberality and the situation of domestic and foreign bodies to her, sitting at the government table, perhaps looking a little further and on the daily consumers of the public, which might now be the agricultural products. There we are using a regular and tax system that affects competition. The game, of course, was originally designed to balance the situation between local and foreign parties and to support domestic production, but today's implementation has become the fact that customs and restrictions are even being used on products with virtually no competition. I'd like to direct it to the highest. Minister to consider also to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u192	Mr. President. Here we will discuss the change in alcohol law on manufacturing site sales. At the council of the left green we made a warning of this case when it was taken out of the council, and we have, in fact, in all the discussions that have been conducted here regarding changes in alcohol law, that alcohol is no ordinary consumers, and that it should not be handled as it has been suggested and maintained, and included with those who have pointed out health and public health issues in that subject. It's on the basis that we've talked about the changes that we've previously made in selling small amounts of alcohol. Everyone who has observed these matters during the past year, year, or even decades, I think I know those views well. Of course, this has been repeatedly suggested that increasing the bioavailability contributes to increased consumption, and we have indeed received good and detailed reports in this respect, including from the surgeon general's office. I personally feel that here the Minister has done a good job of promoting a case that I think could be the basis for something that we might be able to work together on, i.e. that those on the other side are in a place where the production of ale can buy the product and take it home. But I think a top-of-the-art Board of Education has to do with the setting that's put around it, as I see it, I feel that, as it's said, it's actually about a taste test that people have at home, not a load of goods at the product. I just want to state, because there are some opinions about this exact thing at the VG, that I'm here to describe my opinion on this exact subject. So I don't necessarily think it's too good to be told by a minister here that she thinks the bill as it's presented here may not be successful because it's not allowing the Internet store. To me, it is in this outfit that I feel is flat because it's not really being made to make changes in the sales for large volumes and thus could be kept around the public health friends of the case. But to say that I think it's good now that a General and Education Committee is thoroughly involved in the matter and in the setting and that at that job it will also be called according to the viewpoints of those who have been specifically pointing to the public health sector in cases that are relevant to the alcohol law. At least I'm going to look with an open mind and criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u193	V.E.G. President. There was just one point I was going to mention in my speech. The speaker and this focused on the use of consumers that she felt would be able to take along because of these places of sale. I wondered, " Is there anything that she has in mind in this regard? ' In another context, we often reason that there is something that obviously does have to do with our own consumption, not to sell. Is that what she has in mind in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u194	Mr. President. No, I have to admit that I didn't define it down on a certain amount, whether in bottles or in twitching or in any other number. However, I reiterate the view that here we are talking about the fact that a brewery producing alcohol may also sell those who come to their house of product, and then I feel that, as the matter is presented, I think we're going there to say that you're not buying it in such a quantity that it doesn't exist but to be able to take some sort of audition for what you've been learning about and taste at the manufacturing site. But this, I think, is one of the things the committee should consider and ponder.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u195	V.E.G. President. Yes, I'm convinced that the committee will consider this. I think we on the Committee must try to reason this out so that if the new rule becomes that law is both reasonable, reasonable, and capable, and look for ways to reach a common conclusion in it. On the other hand, I approach things in a different direction than what. Senator. I think the bill may be a bit far too much in limiting freedom, both to those who sell the product and to those who want to approach it. Yet, we must be able to speak down on some conclusion in that regard. I just wanted to emphasize in this regard that it can be a little complicated if we at the council are going to set standards of what is normal for a person to take with him or buy in this relationship. I confess I don't know exactly how to approach it or what is normal in it. Is it so that the person feels, or feels, or can be given along? Or how will they think it in the praxize, in the real world?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u196	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator in that we need to find a way that is just effective and clear and able to be used. I have no doubt that this is possible because we are discussing products that are usually sold at the same time. I think we just need to examine very carefully the way we do it because, as the case is presented, it is about the fact that minor producers are authorized to sell their products to those who come to them. I feel that in fact, we're here talking about something in relatively small amounts, although, of course, there's always an definition. This is not some way by which the quantity of costs continues through the ATVR. I'm sure I and what. A senator will consider this and go through the committee. As I said in my speech earlier, public health will come in when it comes to quantity, and we have to go over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u197	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for and, of course, accepts it, as I said at the outset, that we are taking very little steps and, certainly, across different viewpoints. But for word's sake. So the senator is the fact that the overall production of these hand mills is a very small part of the total production of the Icelandic alcohol manufacturers, since the big ones are huge in the market. Even if there were a small amount of purchase, a few twitching, or something more than a test, it would be a very small contribution to what is normally done at the government's liquor store. I also agree that it would be rather difficult to perform, I suppose, and would also reply badly to the cry of a handiculator's company to get a little help, ◯ microstually, if they could only sell one and one brew out of the house. We also need to realize that lawyers are always in a different position, which has permission to go there and buy more than individuals. Of course, it also needs to be looked to, and there we see a lot of conflict in all Icelandic commerce, whether doing business with Costco or doing domestic manufacturers. But that may be another story. Then came the reason. A senator entering the rationale. I was a little worried about that. I believe we have an example of making Icelandic production very high, and it has been our policy, especially during the past few months, of helping people and their partners, but I think it is necessary to look at the Internet market issues as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u198	Mr. President. My support for this matter from my council was just what the management plan is and because we have this fixed picture. I felt that what has been said about the Internet store wasn't meant to result in my wanting to support it. There I believe that health and public health matters are of particular importance because we're talking about a lot of access to alcohol that we don't have right now. I'm telling you everything else, even though I know how the legislation is now, because it's where I think it's such a big change. But I have no doubt that anyone is. Senators want to look into that smell on the General and Education Committee, and that's just the way it is. As for the amount, as I've said many times this evening, I think it's just something the committee should consider. It's known that we have a system that has numbers, whether they are relevant in this bill or not, I won't say about it. But that's to me, a lineup and something we should just look at.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u199	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. The last thing I pondered about the discussion, which, of course, will be carried out on the committee on the basis of the opinion of various senators, that only one or two or three or six be sold at once, is what the problem is and what the real position of these houses is. Home - to - house rocking houses find it difficult to get their liquor sold in stores near them. A person in the capital area needs to be effective in sales where it distributes widely, etc. So if a person living in the same community and the brewery is going to buy a lot of alcohol for a party, he is to be directed to the State's liquor store in the area, which only sells beer from large producers or foreign beer. That is the real situation facing these brewerys. Often local participants can buy beer from them only if they travel to the capital area or to larger liquor stores elsewhere. It's just the position they're facing, and I thought it would be normal for them to be able to sell their products, which are extremely small from total production in Iceland, to support their production. The local people would not have to look elsewhere or perhaps hold the feast in a wine dining room that could handle this beer. They cannot do this for themselves at their own feast. This is just the reality of my chat with a lot of producers and many people at the Icelandic Metting House Association, who are very excited to get permission from the council to do their jobs, which are often so important to their local communities, easier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u200	Mr. President. I understand very well the viewpoint of the little ranchers who want to sell to those who come to them the goods they produce. That's exactly the basis that I have supported the case because I think it can be good for various communities and for these companies to have this possibility. You can now walk into the government's liquor store anywhere and ask for items sold in a state of state to be ordered at your desk, and, fortunately, products are being sold in the various stores outside the country so that very often beer being produced in that area are being sold. So I don't think it's a reason to think that there's a lot of water to be bought to keep bigger events directly out of the rocking houses, because it can always be done through the State Alcohol and tobacco trade. I only repeat once more what I've said before is important to me that this is a way in which you can take very little steps and be able to buy in terms that are not a major purchase. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u201	A respectable president. Here we discuss a bill to correct the change in alcohol law, which suggests that smaller mudhouses will be able to sell alcoholic drinks at a retail site. In this way the bill is intended to support smaller mudhouses, especially in the country, but considerable growth has been in the brewing of alcoholic beverages in recent years. Today, tens of smaller mudhouses are active throughout the country, which produce a wide variety of products, often with special appeal to the environment in which they work. It is estimated that the bill does have the same size as the bill. legislation is considered in other parts of the North, where smaller mudhouses in general are allowed to sell alcoholic beverages in retail, though with different limitations. I can, in part, contribute to that goal, and I find it very important that the meetings are ways of ensuring a fair working environment for the work of a small house - to - house business, but I wonder whether the way in which this is puts on is the most suitable or most successful route, including: because it leads to a change in the bioavailability of alcohol. But on the other hand, as mentioned earlier, I view this matter as part of a business and therefore directly direct it to the General and Education Committee to address the work environment of the rocking houses on all sides and only to return to it later in my case. In handing over the bill from the Senate of the candidates' party, I gave notice of the payment along with other members of the Party. I come first and foremost to make an account for them. In the light of public health issues, I'm warning because the bill includes increasing access to alcohol, and therefore I believe that during the treatment of the matter, the potential impact on human health and the level of control of the sale would be reviewed from that point of view. Especially is it important to look for potential effects on young people. If the bill has to be legal, how human health would be affected, and then, in view of the objectives of the bill, even local. In the conference room, a discussion about changes in alcohol law has been made that alcohol is not like any other consumer product. So, as the law on alcohol - tobacco trade is now, they are designed to define the setting for drinking and selling tobacco based on the protection of public health and community responsibilities. Their aim is to limit and control access to alcohol and tobacco, thereby reducing the harmful effects of alcohol and tobacco and protecting young people from alcohol and tobacco abuse, and to limit the availability of these undesirable products in many ways. It is important to keep them concerned about this matter at the Committee, and therefore I call to be discussed with specialists and amateurs on prevention, about the social impact of this bill on individuals, homes, communities, and, above all, government funds, and hence, a discussion of the General and Education Committee over the possible effects of increased access to alcohol and how to reduce it, if the bill is adopted in some form. Then I would like to mention a recent report that has been given to us members of the Parliament, specifically pointing out that alcohol is an important part of the progress of epidemics and has been repeatedly pointed out, for example. the effects of alcohol on both tuberculosis and AIDS. In addition, we have recently received a report showing a fatal relationship between the alcohol and the crown virus epidemic, and we just want to remind them of how these effects could be prevented. Then I'd like to point out that when the bill went on a crossword, it was quite different from the bill that we have here. In reality, vaster changes were expected, such as the highest. In the earlier discussion, a minister might say that the plans presented here may have been somewhat obscured by the plans for the Internet market in the comment on the increased availability and the suggestions presented here may be unsatisfactory in some way regarding the impacts on human health and the importance of a well - being reviewed by the committee. But then I'd like to come back to my job environment and ask myself, " Is the way in which I put up here best or the most successful way to ensure the management of the house or whether there are ways that would not have the same effect on the availability of alcohol as well as human health? ' I'm just gonna mention, for example. eco-efficiency costs for land, equal transport costs, changes in the rules of selling alcohol at a local liquor store, which may not always be 100 miles away, and then possible changes in alcohol charge against these manufacturers. However, if the Commission finds that the course suggested in the bill is worthwhile, I want it to finally be directed to the Commission to consider that the equality of the manufacturer is apparent, since it is clear that they do not all fall under the bill as it is, not all small producers of ale and producers of strong alcohol, so it is important to examine it. A general and educational committee has work to do, and I believe the public health concerns of the world need to be in the foregrounds of all work, and especially in the interests of children.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u202	V.E.G. President. I understood a speech. A senator who was able to support the bill and is to celebrate it. I would also like to welcome increased support from the progress team on such changes, which include: appeared in a bill of why. paritaprevir The Þórarinn Ingi of Pétursson and other senators of the forward Party, which in some respects presumably represent a more extensive change in the condition of freedom than is found in this bill. I'm sure you can take good parts from both of these capitals and increase your freedom in this area to a great degree. In this context, of course, we must consider the public health issues and they will always be discussed when we discuss these matters. Of course, we need to keep in mind, too, that alcohol as a dangerous warning has the same bad or good effect on individuals, whether it is a government worker or an employee of a private company.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u203	A respectable president. I believe the bill is of the nature that it is desirable to have a thorough examination. I haven't made it up to myself whether I will support it or not. As I mentioned in my talk, the section of the bill that now lies on the subject of public health needs to be examined more carefully. The effects of the Internet market, which are not really available here, have mainly been seen in consultation and previous coverage. This increased bioavailability may then have been somewhat obscured by the finding of the effect of the acronym. It also sounds like the discussion here that there may be some viewpoints on the process and in reality will discuss how much will be allowed to sell in this way, how it would be possible to monitor these and other items. This, of course, has a significant impact on a final proposal that would come to a vote at the Hall of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u204	V.E.G. President. Yes, it is true that public health has come in, and they have, of course, done so to some extent. In fact, it can be noted that in a judicial hearing a great deal of support was given to the change that is found in this bill. I have to admit that I don't realize that even if the bill was successful and even if it was to go further in a measure of liberality, the condition of the country would be thwarted. Of course, it must be remembered that when we discuss the number of sales places, human health, and the like, there are natural countless things - or I don't know how many places there are, restaurants with permission to sell alcohol around the country. In this context, there are relatively few dutiful houses. I don't know if it changes the basic effects of beer whether a man drinks it in the spot or takes it out. I think there may be other factors that have more to do with this relationship. As I said before, I generally believe that alcohol is not more dangerous when an employee of a private firm sells it than when a government store worker sells it. It has been a targeted policy of the state's alcohol and tobacco trade to increase the number of payments, extending payoff time, and thereby adding the services to customers. I don't think that resulted in a major loss to the health of the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u205	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Like what? The senator rightly pointed out the part of the bill that focuses on the working environment of the rocking houses, the part of the business, a very positive review of the problem. But as I pointed out, there may have been nothing to do with the public health coverage of that part, so more work remains for the committee to review it. We must never forget that alcohol is not like any other consumer. As I noted earlier, studies of alcohol and various forms of violence, illness, and epidemics are repeated. There, alcohol can have a significant effect. Hence, we can never go into any change in this law to take into account and work on some counter measures. That is why I also pointed to other possible avenues, such as we have frequently discussed in the Senate Hall, such as the U.S. would be important, of course, if all the production companies in the country could buy electricity at the same price, just as a brewery can sell its production in the same town or in the same part of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u206	A respectable president. I've got a simple question for what? A senator who speaks a lot about the increase in access to alcohol and is concerned about this bill as well as because of the warning signs made out of the Council Party: What is her opinion that in the last ten years the government liquor stores have grown from 17 to 51 and alcohol rights have gone well over 1,000? Is that what you're thinking? The senator's not supposed to have happened, that we should reduce the alcohol stores in the state? There are 20 crafts in more than 20 rural areas in many parts of the country. A senator makes such a mistake, even if it is my belief that it would be better, it is limited. So I just want to ask you which one. A senator: Does it believe that the availability of alcohol has not increased by the increase in alcohol stores from 17 to 51? Does she believe that such things should have come to the council for discussion? I often feel that the changing system is way too dark, and it is very unfair for Icelandic production and Icelandic shops.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u207	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. I think this is a very important question: What are the effects of the rise in sales? Does this necessarily mean an increased bioavailability or a change in bioavailability? Similarly, what I'm discussing with this bill is, in effect, to identify a positive and negative effect. Is the bioavailability to be increased by the way we have shown negative effects of the studies? I don't think I've talked about it before in a speech chair, but somewhere in the discussion of alcoholic products we've been discussing earlier, there's some surgical point of impact with very limited access to alcohol and alcohol and then a well-controlled bioavailability. So selling alcohol from a brewery with a loyal frame, I believe, is an option. But I just haven't figured out if the setting on this bill is loyal enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u208	V.E.G. President. Exactly. That's exactly what we're talking about here, whether less changes have real effects and will need such extreme opposition in the General Assembly. It seems to me that buying alcohol has not increased with the increase in alcohol sales of the state's alcohol and tobacco trade, which, in fact, began with an Internet store trying to increase access to people in Iceland to alcohol and improve their ministry. Why do we not want to improve the services and status of the Icelandic parties? It is my solid faith that by buying foreign alcoholic beverages, from foreign sources to Icelandic parties. Of course, it is clear from the figures that Iceland buys less of a domestic type of alcohol than it does. Our neighbors, if we compare ourselves with them. So I ask why. A senator: Does she believe that a person with a lack of alcohol today cannot obtain it? That's one question. The other question is, is why? A senator does not agree that we should try to create legislation and a contribution to Icelandic employment, support local tax returns? There are over 200 jobs in Icelandic brewery. We thus create laws that are responsible as we support prevention. We support Icelandic people who work in Icelandic society, whether it is a factory or a local store. Should we not create such laws that exactly support these bodies? It is absolutely clear that today's environment is not, and you can see clearly in their consultations what these parties are complaining about under the status of the state's liquor store.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u209	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. Does anyone ever need alcohol? I can't agree with that. It's just the result, alcohol is never essential to someone's missing alcohol. But what is of primary importance is that we never change our alcohol - based legislation from the influence of it on public health and on children. We are far too seldom discussing the context of violence and alcohol. We are repeatedly changing legislation and trying to reform legislation with the goal of reducing violence and finding ways to cope with violence and in almost every case involving violence. We can't overlook that. However, it is important to also, as I came into my speech, the working environment of the rocking houses, that it is reasonable and normal, so that their competitiveness is normal in their otherwise living environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u210	V.E.G. President. Although I did not intend to extend this discussion, I wanted to give my support to the bill and thank the highest figure. Minister of Justice for its transfer. I think it's important to make this change in Icelandic legislation, including Based on the bioavailability of consumers that I think increase to those specific products. I'm not worried that it will increase total consumption in the country or lead to an increase in epidemics or, in itself, an increase in violence because I believe that alcohol, which is already legal in the country, is equally damaging to anyone who sells it. I don't think it matters whether it's a government employee, a private store worker or an employee of a brewery to deliver the product. Of course, the arrangement and implementation may be discussed at the scene of the General Commission, and as it was stated in my answers earlier, I would as a member of a General and Education Committee be prepared to examine changes in the bill to bring it into an even more liberality. Then I have in mind both good changes that can be found in the bill of Þórarinn's son Ingi, son of Pétursson. A senator of the forward party and of the rest of the senators, to the extent that they are in a condition of freedom. These are some of the elements responsible for the expansion of the conditions involved. I have to admit, however, that I find that certain types of beer can only be sold in six loops to consumers, and other only stronger beer types can only sell three cans or bottles to the person and so on. I have doubts about this, but I'm not going to exactly get into it. I think the bill must have a lot of support here at the council, and even if we have a basic view and a good view of public health, I don't think that it's really going to change the matter, and it's not going to happen to reduce the support of it. It has only been explained to other aspects of the problem not found in this bill and to a network store with alcohol. Of course, we are in this area in a somewhat strange position, where Icelandic consumers can buy alcohol from foreign Internet stores but cannot buy from Icelandic Internet stores, which is a very strange arrangement. I confess that I am not the reason for this limitation or obstacle, and I think that I must be examined on the part of the council, whether by any change in this bill or in any other way. I think it's important to discuss it in context because there's something about the present arrangement in this regard that is perfectly illogical to me. It is entirely illogical that a consumer in Iceland can choose to buy alcohol from a Web site located in England or Denmark but cannot buy from a website located in Reykjavík. There's just something illogical about this, and there can't be an important public health issue for the discrimination in this regard. V.E.G. President. But I wanted to finally say that various attempts to make changes in alcohol law have been made in recent years with the goal of increasing freedom in sales and trades with these consumers. I think that in all that suggestions there were some way that rigid rules and stiffer frames were expected than most other products can be found, i.e. However, every time these bills have come up with bills that have walked to eliminate either the exclusive rights of the state to sell on alcohol or to clear the rules otherwise, it has continued to be assumed to be a more rigid policy environment on the sale of this product than any other product. That's what I think it will be. This bill includes steps that are relatively small in the context but is important for those who run these mudhouses, for their local settlements, for customers who would like to learn of the products that are there, and would like to enjoy these restaurants or products that are available there. I think we can make these changes without any means endangering our country's human health, and I now predict that once this bill becomes a law, you'll scratch your head and ask, "How in the world do you think you're going to rule it out?"
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u211	Mr. President. Now I'm probably not one of those who has a measure of scientific evidence, let's say, an increase in bioavailability on one side and the other, the problems of using alcohol. I'm not opposed to this bill from A to Z, either. But I like it very much when I hear senators like you. When it comes to this particular product, a member of the body will discuss some argument and some equality. Let us just imagine how we have been associating with tobacco. What rules have we set now regarding tobacco sales, tobacco abuse, and all of this? And why is that? Because it is a health hazard. Of course, it's alcohol too, we all know it. Why, then, should we not take good care of each turn when we relax? Would we bring back some of the rules we have on tobacco and its sale? I don't think so. So I'm just gonna ask who. A senator: Should we associate with alcoholic beverages, such as tobacco, or should we associate with alcohol as milk?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u212	Mr. President. If we associate with alcohol like tobacco, we have the patents of the whole sale and the freedoms of a small sale.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u213	I know fully how tobacco sells, but then I would like to ask, " Why are we limiting the sales and policy of banning tobacco use to very many places, probably selling tobacco in the end? ' My question was not about this. Rather, it was about why the reasons we hear here are that the consumption of beer or alcohol is not really as physically hazardous as it really is. I don't know how much a patient at the U.S.A. costs, getting him back on his head, but I know that any increase in alcohol sales somehow leads to more trouble. But it may well be that I am willing to rely. A Senate committee to work out a solution to this particular case because I understand the basis of the policy, and I understand one of the other views involved. But I'd like to know if it's like any other product, this fine stuff, beer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u214	Mr. President. I'm not going to go into some way out of the way. A senator. I must say, however, that I made it clear in my speech that all the suggestions presented here at the council, from the moment I came in here, where some of the increased freedoms in the field of liquor sales have been included in some restrictions, some special rules that concern the sale. Even those that have been around for the longest time expected to sell certain types of alcohol in supermarkets still had restrictions. I don't think we need to argue about that, me and what. A senator, that it can and should apply specific rules of dealing with alcohol in the same way as in selling tobacco, which, in fact, are much more liberal than those involving alcohol. However, I stress that although it is recognized as being a product that can be harmful, it is still a legal product in the country. I have not seen or heard a reasonable or sound argument that alcohol delivered over a counter by a Kingdom officer is more dangerous than alcohol delivered over a counter of a private company's staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u215	A respectable president. We'll talk a great deal, and we'll schedule a bill about the changes in alcohol law. I think it's just a very timely and natural change in the law that is involved in allowing houses, which may be a relatively new phenomenon, this micromotive house, to sell directly from their manufacturing site. I think that on one of our independent tours, we visited a rocking house in the Western Islands, whose name is Brothers Brewery, but still is the name of this fine rocking house. The members that he fired described the production and how all of it worked and told us that there was a group of people in that summer who were tryin' the beer and, of course, wanted to buy bottles to take home. They were beer lovers who traveled to Iceland to do their best to come and visit such a smaller house. Then these fine people in the Western Islands asked: "Is there anything else to see on this island? Is there anything else important about this island? Then you began to think that it would probably be available if people travel around the country and come to the Western Islands, known for most things other than having a rocking house, only to visit the rocking house, but they do not know anything about volcanic eruptions or any other history of the islands. I think it's a lot of equality, and it's a professional matter. Of course, when we discuss a change in alcohol law, the discussion about what environment we live in is quite tempting. It has often been said here today that alcohol is not a regular consumer product. I can agree with that, and alcohol can be a disaster, and it is wise to keep rules and frames around alcohol. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson took away my troubles because I thought about this whole tobacco thing, because tobacco is also a complete evil, cancery substance that makes people very dependent on its consumption. We have clear rules about that. When I was a 13 - year - old, I sold tobacco to the shop where I was working. Fortunately, we have rules that no one can sell tobacco without being 18 years old, and tobacco is in closed closets and not a very visible customer. Still, tobacco can be bought into shops and at any store. I've often said that in speeches when we've talked about the law of alcohol that I understand that we want rules. I understand that we want to make sure that alcohol is not somehow pushed on children, I understand the need for this frame, but I don't understand that there is a need to be a government worker who sells alcohol. I don't understand how I can buy wine in a glass of private company, but if I'm gonna buy a bottle of wine, I'm gonna have to go to some public store. I just don't get it. We have some dangerous products, and we feel it is necessary to have some frame around, I can name firearms, fireworks, explosives, drugs, and tobacco, most of us would agree that we need some frame. There is nothing to say, though, that the state has to carry medicine shops, tobacco shops, explosive stores, fireworks, or gun shops. To say that, of course, I support this bill that is presented here and that it is not about what I was saying exactly now. Perhaps there was more to describe my attitude. I think it's normal, and I think it's part of a job structure and the importance of tourism, in the light of those who come and visit the growing sectors that are smaller farmhouses, that these people also have the opportunity to sell their products from rocking houses. I see no reason to have a further frame around it, how many beers it should be or so. In fact, it may also be wondered that this is, of course, mere drinking, the amount of alcohol should be no more than 12% according to the drafts listed here. I can't personally see the evidence for that. I thought it was all right for someone who makes gin or other strong alcoholics to sell it as well. I'm going to point it out to you. The General and Education Committee - or is it a professional committee? A general and educational committee is involved in this matter, but you might wonder whether they even belong on a professional committee. But that may not be the main issue. But I would point it to what. One reference work was to think about this. This has been discussed with the online products, which, of course, is a very clear example of discrimination against national manufacturers. You can order alcohol online, and, of course, should be around some rules, from the foreign manufacturer rather than the national manufacturer. It's just stupid. I would feel that the committee also considered these factors. To say that the big thing is taking a step, and I think that most of us should agree that this is a significant step not to be affected, at least to a very limited effect, on the subject or debate that has often been here on alcohol and public health. I think we all agree on the importance of promoting the public health of the country and the importance of having certain factors around it, and we sometimes have certain prevention functions by imparting instruction to people. But there are just so many things that can be disloyal in this life, and, in effect, everything is not too good for you, so we trust the person to make his or her decisions but normal enough to have the right information. A respectable president. I'm gonna give you some cheers. The General and Education Committee to complete the bill at this council, for under it is a very important job and a number of jobs and opportunities in Icelandic tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u216	V.E.G. President. We are here to discuss a bill to correct the change in alcohol law. The discussion has been good. First of all, it is a matter of taking steps to support the work of the Icelandic hands. It's professional. This is to support Icelandic production and the implementation of a business concept and is especially involved in tourism. As one report on the bill suggests, sales on the basis of this manufacturing license, which is a patented by the State's Alcohol and tobacco trades, are to be the primary concern of the government's transport services. I'd also like to say that in discussing these matters in general, the only thing we can agree on is that alcohol is no ordinary consumer product. As discussed in the discussion and why, I also feel that public health is very important. paritaprevir "The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir and of what is it?" paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir has come in. I believe that it is the most important presentation and instruction in the future. Of course, there must be some rules and respect for the fact that this is not ordinary consumer products, no matter how we view the restrictions we place on that product. I think there'll always be a bit of a stretch of debate and argument that can be a bit in both directions. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, who spoke before me, mentioned what I was primarily going to do in my speech, because it has to do with exporting, when a rocking house welcomes guests and builds up a very pleasant process on that idea. They present their products and what is behind the production. They can take these things all the way and sell their products to visitors they bring with them. Of course, more than just strong ale is being produced, and then these ideologies are just as relevant. Where the highest. The minister will keep this final talk in mind the discussion that has taken place, and I'll ask the minister how it works that it's not part of the bill, whether or not. At the same time, I'm pointing to it. The General and Education Committee, and because the concept of equality has been given in the discussion, it is under the merits of an equation that we look to in support of Icelandic production, support to Icelandic crafts. I suggest that this will be considered not only for strong drinks, but for the Icelandic production and ideologies that are actually being supported. At the same time, this is a very important business. But I'm not going to have any more words about this fine thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u217	A respectable president. I thank you for the fine discussion this case has brought to the council tonight and has been very close. Of course, the bill is a very small step, and I agree with it. The members of the council that came into it. I hope the committee takes a good look at her work, okay? The General and Education Committee, whether to add other types of alcohol, other production in a format similar to the one discussed in the bill, to also look out for an equality. That's what I hope for. All such small steps to freedom have required effective fighters who have chosen to trust that the Icelanders can control their own lives. Of course, it is not that, as some would like to be, that we are talking about alcohol as entirely traditional consumer products. However, it has been suggested that this bill promotes harmful effects with alcohol; illness, epidemics, tuberculosis, and violence. I'll be waiting for a case like that. This is a very small change in moving sales and supporting Icelandic producers. I know how harmful alcohol can be, whether it is those who drink too much alcohol before or for their families. For such unhappiness, I would never push, and it is my firm belief that this bill does not. It is also my firm belief that although the bill was more extensive and luxuriant, a slightly larger change, as I suggested at the outset, it would not. I don't want to talk like that, but that doesn't mean they're not allowed to talk about human health. And what really works in that struggle? Is it prevention and education, or should we close the State liquor store? What changes are normal? Did the predictions in talks held here 32 years ago regarding the tremendous changes they felt would result in alcoholism and the conduct of the nation? I don't think so. The bill is about to look out for equality, to support Icelandic people, and it is my firm opinion that it is preferable to think that these functions are on the surface and under a clear rule and that they are done legally. Today, too much liquor can go on the outside, a liquor store where people get involved in Icelandic regulations by sending alcohol from abroad and back to here, because of the law of discrimination between Icelandic people. We must respond and have Icelandic legislation properly. In spite of differences in viewpoint between those who want to be free in these matters and those who want a very conservative course in these matters, we still need to be careful about the equality and the natural competitiveness of the Icelandic parties. I believe that by both the bill available here, granting hand mills permission for sales at the manufacturing site, as well as the change that could not come into this council, to balance the position of the Icelandic people who want to sell their product through the Internet, we are just going between these views. We are not at the state of the alcohol store, but I also believe that income of this trade is better maintained within a country with the benefits of Icelandic companies, protection of jobs, for the creation of taxpayers, which can be used even further in prevention. Then there is much talk of growth. The growth of this bill would be negligible. This would more likely lead to the distribution of the sale, and the trade would be brought to the local public, the domestic production that Iceland buys much less than the neighboring nations. But the basis for all of this is to increase equality in the alcohol market, to support little Icelandic people. I think, it's my religion, and I hope so, given this discussion that I felt quite positive about the bill, that it could become reality and become very important to these people, especially at these times, who have relied heavily on tourists. I repeat, it is my sincere belief that we should trust people to make further decisions about their own lives and that they need to be very good reasons to compromise public freedom of choice in these and other matters. The government should not decide what and what to drink, and there is no reason to insist that national rules are far more strict than elsewhere. It is necessary to take steps like this. They're important. In my opinion, they could be more, even if they were small. The foundation is to support Icelandic people, Icelandic commerce, and stand equal. We're always here on this platform talking about how we want Iceland to stand out in an enterprise, that Iceland is an excellent place where it's easy to start a business where a regular work is simple, where we're competitive. These companies do not experience such a rule. A respectable president. The discussion here at the council was good. Although a discussion of alcohol can often become a subject of action, as we have seen in the past, I hope to do so. The General and Education Committee will be blessed with a material discussion about the bill, based on facts and a natural attitude toward Icelandic people who are involved in this operation, which I think we shall do better with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u218	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in environmental pollution laws from a single use container for drinking products, No. 52/1989. The bill was employed in the Environment and Resource Ministry in cooperation with Recycling Corp. and other stakeholders. In addition, legal plans and billing initiatives were published in the government recommendation for the recent year's presentation and were made available to make comments. The regulations for measures to prevent environmental pollution caused by the single use container for drinking products were originally agreed in 1989 and, at the same time, Recycling was hf. Founded to handle return fees and collection and recycling stores. Recycling hf. operates in the delivery system of drinking stores and should establish an effective system for their collection across the country, strive to achieve the best results, and implement the package for recycling. In accordance with the law, pay payment and put on drinking products produced or stamped on the land. The tents are also placed on drinking products sold into tax - free shops by the arrival of passengers and crews in the country. The primary objective of the bill is to improve recycling and return costs to drinking products packaging. The motive is follow-up with proposals from 2018 to work group. The population included led to the study of stress and remuneration, in relation to vacation areas and vacationings. The task force included representatives from the employment organizations, the EEA, the Recycling hf., free partner organisations and customs managers. The bill also includes a response to the request of Recycling hf. the changes in administrative support and return fees. The bill proposes, first of all, to include in the law a specific law that has not yet been found in the law. The directive complies with the target of the cycle economy's limitation of resource use and waste and also reflects the EEA-enforcement policies. Second, a two-dollar increase in return rate per unit of drinking product, which is consistent with an increase in the index price of consumption. The pay that comes with the common price in the country maintains the motivation to return packaging to its proper place. These are proposed increases in the terms of environmental management. There are various reasons for suggesting an increase in the level of environmental benefits, including increased cost of operating at Recycling hf. It is responsible for running an efficient return system and becoming the company's income of due fees and administrative support. The early understanding of the package for recycling has increased, resulting in a higher proportion of return fees being paid to consumers, otherwise involved in recycling Corp. The Society then has been requiring funding to get even better results, including some of them. education to the general public on the environmental value of recycling, as well as general pay increases. A reduction in global prices has also been observed, affecting the income of the organisation's stock market for recycling, and a reduction in plastic prices has also been observed. That's when Recycling lives hf. to alter the procedures for the handling of glass and intended to initiate glass recycling of 2021 i.e. This year. This will be an important step and will help Iceland reach its targets on recycling of the glass camps that fall to this point called the export of the glass, resulting in a greater cost to the current treatment. The bill combines a new category of recycled non-colored plastic materials, which are expected to carry less control fees than plastic dressings. The reason for this is that recycled plastic materials are environmentally friendly, but it masks a lower translucency fee on a package of such plastics as environmental production. The bill suggests, thirdly, that the return system of drinking camps covers all available drinking stores. To date, sales from a tax - free trade at leaving the country have been excluded from legal requirements. It is therefore suggested that passengers and crews from a treaties trade - free trade should be put in and pay dues and legal fees, just as there has been a legal agreement for drinking products when they arrived in the country. A proposal also applies to the emissary and international organisations. It is believed that this package will be largely left in the country and will be returned to the recycling hf, which will repay their fees even if no return fees have been paid. Finally, the bill suggests a change in wording in order to allow agreement between the law and the rules for waste management in priorities in waste management, focusing on recycling, recycling, and other recycling. The bill is designed to further add information to a single-use drinking package, increasing their recycling, especially glass, while ensuring recycling activities hf. Its economic impact on the wealth of the empire is then despised. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u219	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the history of this fine case. It will be good to end a discussion about changes in alcohol law that we deal with environmental pollution from a disposable drinking product container. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only to one or two things. Of course, all of us know that the amount of single - use container, plastic, aluminium, and glass that we have seen falls to an enormous quantity. The Cheflavor airport is made up of subjects in the report with the bill, for it was not surprising that it would pass through, or at least, we could say, up to 10 million passengers a year. There, a huge amount of bandages fall into existence. V.E.G. A minister recognized that there is a round package that has not been paid for due fees or administrative support. These laws will be approved under the return system. And I'm asking the highest. A minister whether this will affect the government's financial or financial expenses or whether it has been assessed whether it is about to grow out of the country because both materials are leaving the country and then packaging is introduced into the country. Has it been examined and considered what financial impact this has on recycling?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u220	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry. As shown in a paper with the bill, it is estimated that in the food business at Leif's funeral hall in 2018, approximately 2 million units. Most of this is domestic production. It is estimated that much of this package will remain in the country and return to the recycling process that then needs to be paid. Well, then, these parties haven't really laid it down. So this bill is actually improving the economy of Recycling. As it is today, in Recycling, they have to pay it out to these people without entering the system at the other end. It is not thought that this will affect the wealth of the state. I'm not quite sure which way. A senator was asking the same question. It is not thought that this will affect the state fund, but this should improve the economy of recycling.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u221	Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. This brings to mind the motto of the Environment Minister of Waste Prevention, combined in waste management. Because we were referring to the Keflavík Airport, we know this enormous amount of flight service. It must fall into an enormous amount of waste, including From the planes that come here. I wondered if this waste is completely graded, including the disposable plastic, aluminium, and glass package, what happens to this waste, and if something is missing there, if something needs to be done. Only about the glass. It's on the bill, and it was shown in a case at the highest level. Ministers that this year recycling of glass begins, and this applies to a glass wrapping of drinking products. However, there are other things that are made of glass. We consumers know that. There are glass jars and glass containers that we keep making trouble. It's out of this system. What's your chief plan? A minister does this? And what about recycling on the glass? What happens to the glass when it is recycled? Will they be working on recycling at home, or will this be moved out of the country? And what recycling costs are at the highest. Minister of the glass here at home? I just want to slip into one more question at the end. Of course, it's in the spirit of the circuit system. We know that there is a policy towards the introduction of the EEA contingency systems. What is it, and when can we become involved in these matters, even more than we do today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u222	V.E.G. President. First, because of questions about waste from airplanes, he goes all to incineration, and because of the precipitating of all mixed waste from international flights to burn. I've often asked myself if it's absolutely necessary. But I understand that, anyway, considering what it's like today. Then, with regard to the recycling of glass, today we are actually renovating the glass. We're supposed to be recycling about 60% of all the glass that comes on the land, but we're not actually recycling anything. It's with this bill that I'd like to change it for the beverages. Then there is the bill that has now been in consultation with another glass package that would pass through the Calculus Fund. When we add this together, I'm convinced that we will meet our goal in recycling of glass and that it is now time for what is being presented here. However, the only practical option at this time is the export to recycling. However, it is not excluded that land may be opened up later. Let us hope so, and may the same be done. Then I just want to say in general, thank you very much. A senator for this fine discussion, as is always true of waste, and I intend to present a bill at the spring council that makes a major contribution to the waste. We have just also published a plan for a new plot of waste, so these practices are really being cleaned up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u223	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, the debate on environmental protection is in itself so parapolitic that most of us senators agree, I think. However, I feel the obligation of another vice president of the Environment and Transport Committee to say something about this matter because plastic pollution, if you get massive and just graded, has become a global calamity. In some part of the country, this has been about a single-use container, not just about food, but about products. We know that when we're buying something, almost half are plastic, not some kind of paper that is often recycled. It's part of our industry. This comes with the agriculture where most plastics are being recycled. It comes with the fishing road, the fish fire, the exports, etc. I live in a construction site now. The plastics are flying all over the place because construction plants that are used both in buildings and outside are equipped with an enormous amount of plastic. Much of this, because two thirds of the globe are seawater, lands there, and studies have shown, for example. Here, out of 74 mussel samples taken around the country, microplastic particles were found in 72 samples. That tells us a lot about pollution here in plastic - related waters. When it comes to the thought of counterimprovement, it is partly about sorting it, not only to collect the plastic but also to sort it out but also to natural recycling. But to some extent, it's also about how we deal with the city, the city we live in, the urban population, the country's countryside, etc. I'm not afraid to say that it is very common for people to throw away plastic, and those who are working with one another do not intend to put away or get plastic in the right way. Just looking at gardens, groves, streets, streets, streets, and streets, along the roads of the country, and on the shores to agree with me. To change this is one way by which many are the financial motivations we are considering here. They are truly useful. I always remember when you hear objections against these impulses - they're called curses, burdensomes, etc., these are the descriptions that will follow them - because the results of them are true throughout the world, where they are used to some extent. Instead, I would like to use expressions such as to show up in the ◯, ◯woeful, positive expressions about these things that are even called green taxes, but in reality this is a very effective way to influence the economic and thinking of the people and the thinking of those in charge of companies, etc. Whether it is called return rate, price tax, or anything else, it makes environmental awareness, increases waste, in this case plastic, and encourages us to make better use of raw materials. They're looking at the circuit economy. I said, did we hear that word ten years ago? This is becoming the control of much of the discussion, it is a sign of time, and it shows that more and more of us are beginning to understand that earth's resources are limited and recycling, and the key is really that mankind can have a bright future for decades and centuries. Limited use or use of plastic products and incentives for recycling and recycling have been the rivalry of this government in my opinion. I remind of the 18 teams we agreed on two, three years ago and have contributed to changing camp rules, changing what can be sold, what can be done free or given free, and what must be paid for. All of this is a factor in reducing the problem and viewing plastic as a resource. Here is already a development in that direction, both in innovation and in companies such as Pure North Recycling, as it is called, in Who making, where there is a very positive progress in this process. Investment services, garbage, and other such companies come in and should be mentioned. I'm not going to be happy that this is the end of a drinking vessel. I'd like to remind you that glass has actually been munched and fresh in tambourine, it has not been recycled in what we call it, but it has been new in the process of mixing it with asphalt in complex. There's one way at least to do that. to do something positive about it. I say again, I celebrate the bill, and I guess there'll be a quick release for the treatment. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-16-55.u224	A respectable president. I'll celebrate this bill and wish. Environmental and transport committees are successful in providing it quickly and effectively. But I have to admit that. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson only set me on fire when he started talking about the plastic problems, the pollution created by plastics, but also the recycling process, specifically referring to the pioneers in Whosores who have been recycling plastic. So I had to take this opportunity to get it to the top. Minister and minister. The Environment and Transport Committee is also looking at some ways in which we can build the system so that it will contribute to further innovation and recycling of plastics or other wastes on the land. Unfortunately, the Department and the system we have built around this still has too much incentive for exporting, not for domestic innovation and production. But the bill we have here is of the best, and I'm the highest. Minister remains in these areas.
