ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before that, we should also welcome the children who were patient to wait. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and five educational attendants from the 11th High School of Ilio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rules 129 and 132 of the Rules of Procedure, the Prime Minister will reply to the second question by number 270/24/7-12-2015 on the first cycle of the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Union of Centres and MPs from Athens, Mr. Vassilis Leventis, on the selection criteria for the establishment of new hosting centres for Hotspot refugees on the Greek territory and in particular on the island of Kos. Then, as a second, we will discuss the first under number 239/21/12-2015, a top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliament, Mr. Doras Bakoyannis, to the Prime Minister, on the handling of the government in the process of recapitalising the banks. The standard times are as follows: In his prology, the MP has two minutes in both the second and four minutes, while the Prime Minister has six minutes in his second language and three minutes. In these procedures, there is always a clear willingness to give up to twice the number of years to both the Member and, of course, to the Prime Minister. I would ask, however, that the limits on the economy of a coherent debate be respected, because immediately afterward six more topical questions will be discussed and a topical question, also on flamming issues, which may be brought to an end by the afternoon. In other words, the House today has a confirmed programme. The Prime Minister speaks from the Step. However, any one of the two - or both - of the honourable Members wants to speak from the Step. Mr Leventis has the floor to develop the first timely question to the Prime Minister. Mr President, you can speak from your position and from the Step. As you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u2	The question is asked below, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u3	Prime Minister, this procedure has been requested. Mr. Leventis, you have the floor. I'll give you four minutes instead of two for protology and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have given the impression that the government is also in refugee terms. That'll cost. The same happened in the financial sector, which said it was negotiating, negotiating, negotiating, and when Mr Shoeble took out the programme that he did not want any more loans, he did not want any more memorials, but humanitarian aid for Greece, because he would erupt a terrible crisis, then the Prime Minister made an absolute retreat and signed it all. While he said it was negotiating and the Greek people, perhaps, expected the foreigners to retreat, eventually became a complete retreat of Greece to the economy. The same in refugee terms: from the fact that we do not want FRONTEX to get involved in how we manage our national independence, we have reached a point which, when they said about Schengen II, we have completely retreated and signed it all again. To claim that you negotiate and eventually retreat in full, it can sell communications - that you negotiate - but it harms the country. I will try to tell you a few words from something I read, although I do not usually read because it is the subject: no plan, no organization for refugees, immigrants, seventy-nine thousand people came to Greece in 2015. UN High Commissioner. More and more are gathered in Athens without any planning for their hospitality and management. They're back from Iwarded two and a half thousand people. Those who have been transferred to Idome, the European Union considers that they do not have a refugee profile, so if they do not apply for asylum in one month, they must leave the country. Many of them left in an unknown direction, neither in Taekovod nor in the Greek, searching for other ways of escape. Who are they? Do we have any clues? We'll see. They end their legal documents, they have to leave the country in a few days and we do not even know where they are. While the refugee removal operation had been decided three days before its realisation, when the immigrants arrived in Athens, the place to be hosted had not been organized. At the same time, there was no provision for feeding, and there are hundreds of donations from the citizens. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the Union of Centres hits the warning bell.]] Four thousand newcomers arrived yesterday from the islands in Athens. The Mayor of the Athenians, Mr. Kamins, speaks of the capture of thousands of people in the capital, without even the elementary infrastructure. Firstly, my topical question to the Prime Minister was about Kos, because the Mayor was here and he described some terrible things to me, worrying about the island. At the moment, however, we have four Mayors of Attica - Alimos, Greek and Argyroupoli, who are a municipality, the Old Faliro and Glyfada - who have risen up. Takvodos, Greek, temporary accommodation structures for refugees and vulnerable groups of citizens of third countries in a short time, which in the end is not temporary. Mayors are talking about a permanent structure of open hospitality. There's no temporaryity, gentlemen! Last night there were incidents on the Taekvodo stadium with tactics between immigrants, intoxicated immigrants. Screwdrivers came out. He went into the MAT platoon field. You know these, I guess, these. No government planning. The continuation of the drama of Idomeni, for twenty-five days, and in Attica. Let us not forget that more than EUR 1.2 million is the damage suffered by carriers only by blocking and taking over the line. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Union of Centres is ringing.]] The timely question I asked Mr Tsipras is also about the fiasco we had with FRONTEX. At first the government did not want FRONTEX. I said it in quote. And when the partners threatened us out of the Schengen Treaty if the Prime Minister did not comply with the commitments he had made on the refugee problem, Greece submitted a request for the development of a direct intervention team from FRONTEX, RABIT, on the Aegean islands, in order to strengthen the protection of the external borders. Also, our country accepted - the well-known recurring republics of SYRIZA at the expense of the country - what the Greek Prime Minister had agreed since October and its failure to fulfil it was a key problem, namely the mission of staff from FRONTEX to the border with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. This was also one of the permanent requests made by the Member States that Athens had not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, the rest in your dilemma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, you will give me some more time to finish my timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u7	There'll be a second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u8	Two minutes, I don't think...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u9	Two minutes, no. Wait a minute. We've already been in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u10	In a minute, I can't. It's not a spot. It's only the spots.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u11	All right, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u12	The Prime Minister has accepted the installation of fifty thousand refugees in Greece, without the proportional distribution being established in other countries, and Greece has done nothing about it. The hotspots on the islands will host seven thousand people, but so many arrive in the islands in one day. The government's not good at math. There is a risk that thousands of refugees will be caught in Greece. Also, the immediate rethinkings of those who are not refugees have stopped. According to the JEPS law, first host centres or hot spots are centres for identification and registration, for referral to an asylum procedure with hosting structures and for referral to a return procedure for those not entitled to asylum. The recording, determination of nationality, photography must take place within forty-eight to seventy-two hours, while the stay can be reached for all twenty-five days. The police and port staff shall be responsible for the recording and storage of the site. It is not, however, a detention area such as Amydaleza. Non-reservation of guests in JEPS. The legislative framework...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u14	I didn't ask my question. I'd like a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u15	You submitted it. It is a written question. He's been submitted. That's how this process is going to happen. Your question has already been raised by the question mark.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u16	It has been submitted, but it wants an explanation, because the Prime Minister goes by law of 2011, Mr President - which was done with the needs of 2008 - to deal with a tsunami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u17	You'll remind him of it in your dentistry. This process...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u18	And hotspots have not been properly legislated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u19	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u20	Introducing spaces, reacting mayors, going from place to place. As happened, with VAT in the schools, where we took him to the wines, we took him, I don't know where we took him. And at the end where did the VAT end up? I still don't know where the VAT ended.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Suppose they were in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u22	You guys were applauding that VAT left the schools. You took him to school. Were you applauding for your mistake?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u23	Yes, sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u25	Have a seat, Mr. President. Thank you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this procedure has some rules. Of course, I am open to make them more flexible, to have dialogue. However, the process is always specific: there is a written question called on by the person asking to develop it within two minutes, then four. And growth is usually underneath, because it doesn't say anything new. The questioner's basic intervention is during which the second speech is given, not for the development of the timely question, but for the substantial intervention which, of course, I am open to even flexibility in time. That is, to know a little and to observe some rules, so that we do not get out of the box. Well, actually, now. It is the third time I have come to Parliament to answer a question concerning refugee. And that makes sense. We're experiencing a huge crisis, globally, I'd say. It is perhaps one of the greatest population movements humanity has encountered since World War II. She's the biggest sure! And all this movement and crisis passes from our country, from our islands, the islands of the eastern Aegean. Here we must try to deal with a matter with care, of course, for our citizens, but also with care for these people. In other words, we must manage an issue without giving the barbaric populism of violence, fences and walls that are now rising in Europe and illegal re-propelled backwards at sea. We will insist on this policy of humanism, solidarity and international law, however difficult this is nowadays. This is a moral obligation for Greece, but it is also a legal obligation towards international law and we must respect it. I hope and hope that in this effort we will have all the wings of the Greek Parliament from now on, except for the Golden Dawn of course. Because it is easy to denounce and blame the citizens who are voting for the Golden Dawn - a neo-nazi organization - and bring it to Parliament, but to help this process by reproducing both inside and outside Parliament the far-right agenda, with dangerous populism, dangers and catastrophes. Because I think that many people today, unfortunately, do not share the self-evident principles that guide the country's policy on the refugee question. In recent years, a coordinated effort has indeed been made, with the reproduction of unrealized publications, to show that the European Union raises a matter of exit from Schengen because it does not fulfil its conditions, conditions and obligations. So this dreadful climate is actually trying to cultivate some extremist circles in Europe from countries that have faced the refugee issue, raising walls and fences, when Greece shows a person of solidarity with these people who are becoming the raids of the traffickers and drowning in the Aegean Sea. Of these, therefore, threats are reproduced, which, however, have nothing to do with reality. I would like to repeat, of course, that this issue is not the best thing to do in order to have a micro-party controversy and a confrontation which is lacking in seriousness, I would say, is not the best thing to make an opposition. There's so much else. Because in the background of some to make easy criticism, they risk the country's international position. In this sense, it is a matter of national responsibility. Unfortunately, for all those who replicate these irresponsible risks, last week the Council of Ministers of the European Union not only threatened Greece, not only did it not show it the way out of Schengen, as some here had anticipated that it would happen, but, on the contrary, it also officially congratulated Greece, because despite the enormous difficulties of the huge flows but also the economic difficulties we face, we are responding with superhuman efforts to our obligations. With regard to your question, Mr Leventis, as regards the islands and the establishment of identification centres, which have been called 'hots' - in any case, I do not like to use this terminology - I would like to say to you: The choice of the location of identification centres - and I would like to make it clear - was not imposed by the Greek Government or by the European Union, but by the very reality and by geography. Our islands are the first European territory to be found by refugees in the traffickers' boats, hundreds of which go to them when they enter the territorial waters. When they enter the territorial waters, the only obligation we have against people who are at risk of their lives is to collect and rescue and not to re-promotion, which you know very well that it is illegal under international law. And, of course, when people are at risk in our territorial waters, we rescue them and transfer them to land, where our obligation on land is to provide first aid and in the centres we build with difficulties - in the identification centres - to make the intended procedure for identifying them, to see how many of them have the right to seek asylum, how many of them can go and go to countries where they want to go and what is going on with some who do not have the right. These are the big and critical issues that we need to discuss. You know, therefore, that these are issues which have to do not only with human obligation, but also with public and national security issues, I would say. And the country must be consistent with its basic commitments regarding its participation in the Schengen single area. You said, Mr President, that the people of Kos share their opposition. I'm surprised you're saying that. Did you make a survey and find it? Did you go and ask them one by one? I know that there are indeed reactions - and I would venture to say no and particularly spontaneous - of certain elements that usually react. Of course, I do not want to pay much attention to this, but I know that both in the four other islands - Mytilini, Samos, Lero, Chios - and in Kos, the reaction of the vast majority of local society is a reaction that one would say highlights humanity. It is a reaction primary to show the sense of solidarity with these people and not reactions, such as that these people contaminate us, they have to leave here and have to go somewhere else. But we also have such phenomena from some individual. I wonder: If we do not become the identification centres in Kos, will things be better for Kos and its citizens? All summer, when we were surprised, there was no ID. And we were in the extremely negative event of people stacking in the harbor, bulk in the town parks. Is that a good, positive picture? We are honored? Is it good for tourism? While now we are moving in a process, in a direction of having a structured space in human conditions just outside the city, where these people will take first aid and feed them. There will be no more than forty-eight hours left, and the identification process will be carried out, as we have to do under international conditions, of the identification we hope will soon, in accordance with the process of new technologies, of the Eurodac system. From there on, they will have the possibility within forty-eight hours, as has already been done, with dozens of exceptional boat routes that have been secured for this purpose, to be able to transport inland. These are therefore the identification centres on the islands from which refugees leave and go to the mainland, and there our obligation is to build the temporary reception centres or the centres for relocation, relocation centers, from where the process of relocation to the countries of Europe is to be promoted. The site in Linopti, Kos, which has been selected, is an area fully suitable, legally granted, with the approval of the relevant Archaeology Service and with the agreement of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Now you're saying some people told you that they don't want them there to go somewhere else. What is the alternative that is being tabled? Let us be told by those who react - I am not saying for you - what is the alternative to Kos. Are they yelling to yell or do they have an alternative proposal? Or do they think that if we don't make anything there, will things be better? I was about a month ago inviting the mayors of the five islands to Maximos, and in a symbolic movement all six metropolitans - six, because Lesvos has two - and we all sat together on a table and talked. On the part of Kos, there was no objection, perhaps because the climate was different there, it was a climate of understanding. And the metropolitan was identified with the viewpoint. How can he do it anyway? This is also an issue where common sense is identified, and with the basic concept of Christianity and orthodoxism, that the fellow man who needs help and we do not throw him on the road or on the sea. I want to finish, because time is over and I'm going to go on with my denology. The selection of the place of establishment of identification centres was imposed by the geography and reality of mixed migratory flows and by the obligation of the country to identify fully new entrants at the points of entry. Alternative transport to another part of the territory before identification is made is an alternative which is absurd. It involves switching thousands of people daily under the arrest regime and that is what you realise is beyond and outside of any logic. Because there's that. They say "Let's get out of here to go to the next island". Now some mayors will also begin - but they are mistaken if they think they might folk with this issue, they won't sell anymore - say "go to the adjoining municipality or the adjoining municipality". It has changed the climate, I say it to you, if you are going to create a climate if you are winning voters. It is not the climate that we had a few years ago with the image of immigrants, which was indeed a big issue of infraction in the center of Athens. Here we have flows of thousands of people, most of whom come from middle-class, who are refugees. We have experience as a refugee people. We know what refugee means and especially from the coasts of Asia Minor. So I think it is good to have in mind that there is no alternative to this planning that we are trying to implement and, I believe, successfully implement. One last answer before I come out of the Step, in relation to the issue of Idolathi. I'll say it in dentistry, too, if I have to. Look, ladies and gentlemen, in Idomen, we have proved that even in the difficult circumstances there is a way of organising police operations without "opening a nose" and without our country being exposed internationally, as are other countries with the tents that we have seen on the Hungarian and other countries' borders - I do not want to mention now. It was a great droit that the barbaric leftists would go there. "You will now see how the Left beats," said some. But we have proved that when one wants - the same policemen are, it is the same people who are planning and trying - when there is a political will and orders to be protected and organised, these businesses can also be effective in terms of the purpose that the railway line had to open, but also in terms of respecting human rights and human conditions. Now as far as Taekvoddo is concerned. Indeed, there is a accumulation of immigrants in Taekovod. It's not pleasant what's going on. But you realise that the worst way to deal with a problem is to create a greater problem than the doro, than to create and magnify some minor problems that may exist there. Of course, when some people are stacked, tired, troubled, some of them hungry, they can be made by some of the individual elements of micro-empires, much smaller than what happened and done every Sunday after the end of the football matches on the next floors. Do you want to raise this issue as a major one? Yeah, I'm saying this isn't a big deal. The major thing is to see how we are going to face a real problem, since some countries decide to close borders for some of the refugees, and even illegally, because you cannot define the refugee profile from ethnicity. That's illegal. There are international rules based on International Law to determine the refugee profile and there Skopje closes the border illegally. There is indeed a risk here. What's the danger? He is the one to whom you have referred, so that it is not considered that I come here without a sense of responsibility. Indeed, there is a risk that, if these flows continue, the country will be turned into a warehouse. Well, the country should not and will not be turned into a warehouse. We have already moved, we have made all the necessary moves at international level in order to implement, implement the readmission agreements. The countries of origin, both Turkey and Pakistan, must respect their international commitments here. The day before yesterday we went and did a return process, back, to fifty Pakistanis. The Commissioner had gone to Pakistan to close the deal and the Pakistani authorities, of the fifty who took them to Islamabad, turned us thirty-nine back. All the rest of them must comply with their international obligations and not just Greece. Greece fulfils its obligations. They must also be respected by the European Union and Turkey and by third countries as regards readmission agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u27	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the southern theory of nineteen students and students and two teachers attending from the 1st Drapetsona General High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr President, you have the floor for your dentistry for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u28	I'm sorry, but the Prime Minister looks like he didn't read my timely question. The question is specific. He first spoke of extreme right-wing circuits, fascist, racist, seeking to take advantage of the matter. This is the Centro Association, not the Golden Dawn that asks the question. One of the prisoners. Secondly, I spoke about the delay in calling for the assistance of FRONTEX. When we were threatened with miscarriage from Schengen, we asked for the support and involvement of FRONTEX. So far, we have had the view that this affects our national dignity and independence. Thirdly, the Prime Minister said: ‘Where are we going to put the hotspots? Where foreigners get disembarked, that's where we'll put them." It's not like that. So, if ten thousand foreigners come to the Acropolis, they'll cook for strangers there? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] This is not a solution, "to the knee" and where strangers come out, where hotpots can be made. There had to be a design in mainland Greece, from inhabited areas, without affecting tourism. He said he doesn't know that in Kos and Mytilini the world is against. Then she's out of place and time, if she doesn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u29	Please, be quiet. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u30	I haven't talked to a guy in Mytilini or Kos who agrees. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Okay, you agree, because you have party reasons. While my question was well-meaning, she answered as if I were among those who are attacking the government to take advantage of the issue of votes. In fact, he also used the phrase 'for votes'. He knows that on my twenty-fifth run until I entered the House, I also asked for high pension reductions and reductions in privileges, and I was against ruffles. I've never used populism. We are used in this Chamber to regard every question as a misappropriation. That's a bad start. And the last thing I didn't say, most importantly, is that with '11 legislation, which was done with '08 figures, they're going to face the tsunami that comes. It's like saying, with summer data, we're dealing with gravitationality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u32	I do not want to repeat much of what I said in my first place. Let me just say this with regard to the islands, to close this issue and answer you, Mr President, with regard to FRONTEX, because that also has an interest. So, with regard to the islands, we must understand that, in addition to all other issues - morals, humanity, solidarity - and as far as the Schengen Convention is concerned, and as far as our international obligation is concerned, so that we can make a real contribution to dealing with terrorism, that is to say, recording, identifying, our obligation is with where they come, saving and stepping up European territory, there being identification. And that is a perfectly reasonable demand from our partners too. I must tell you that we were obviously surprised at the first time and in the summer our ability to meet this obligation was low when we even had a flow of ten, fifteen thousand on an island every day. However, since September, this process has been taking place in an excellent way, thanks to the superhuman efforts of the men and women of the police and the port, of course, and of the local authorities. I must tell you that today there is not even a refugee who is not identified on the islands. Of course, the big problem is that the automatic identification machines, the so-called Eurodac, are not enough, when the flows are too large, and we are forced by many of them to use the ink process, the traditional procedure, which is a delaying time. That is, until he passes the name of the identified fingerprints on the computer to register, he can spend a few hours. You realize that these few hours for the needs that we do, to protect ourselves against the possibility of having some suspect entrances, play some role. And that is why in time we have asked the European authorities, from other countries, to help us with the assistance of such machines. So, let me say here that some accused the country as a clear vine, some have again tried to indict us, when it turned out that one of the offenders in the dramatic, bloody terrorist attack in Paris had passed through Lero. But in Lero, this man was identified as normal and in a Eurodac machine. When he crossed the rest of Europe, only in Serbia was identified anywhere else. And here they are trying to create a security issue for Greece, which is doing its job well, and Greece is the last fort of stability in a destabilised area. They saw the one who passed through Lero and didn't see the fact that everyone else was a breed in France, Belgium and that even the one who passed here was identified and nowhere else. I now come to the matter of FRONTEX, to close. There is no objection to it. From the outset there has been no objection and I think there is a misunderstanding here about the assistance of the Greek Coast Guard from FRONTEX at the maritime border. Anyway, FRONTEX's there. And, of course, he does nothing but what the Greek Coast Guard does: he rescues people. Greece must tell you that it has also requested the strengthening of FRONTEX, in addition to its request for Eurodac machinery, as I said before. It has also called for the strengthening of FRONTEX. Unfortunately, out of the six hundred additional officials we have asked for, only two hundred people have come to this day. I must tell you that we have no objection to the creation of the so-called European Coast Guard, which is being initiated by our own encouragement. Where we object - and you are all well aware of this, because it concerns our sovereign rights and there we cannot make discounts - it is in the demand - not officially - that there should be joint patrols in Greek territorial waters with the Turkish Coast Guard. This is not a problem. Why, even if we accepted this, which we do not accept, what would the Turks do differently from what we and Frontex do? To enclose and rescue people, namely, since we are in European waters, take them to European soils, that is to say our islands. So there is no such thing. So the European Coast Guard should come and it should be set up. Of course, the Greek forces would also help. National competence is absolute responsibility for border guarding. We need to make that clear. From there on, I think that where we should concentrate now on it is not the obligations that we are not supposed to fulfil. We respect our obligations. Let's see what's going on on the other side. I just want to make two comments. There was an agreement with Turkey, I say. But we also expect to see the results of this agreement. Because this agreement was supposed to be in order to reduce flows. To date, we have not seen this. I wish I was wrong. I wish I could go out a liar. We have also set up a permanent Inter-Governmental Committee for the two countries, and I will ask for an extraordinary meeting to be held next time, so that we can see together with the Turkish side what is going on with the flows. This whole process of Europe has made it possible for refugees who are in Turkish territory to have some money to live in decent conditions, of course, to move from Turkey to Europe - all right - but also to reduce flows. We need to see that. Finally, it is up to Greece to fulfil its obligations, but Europe must also fulfil its obligations, not to Greece, but to the problem. Because, so far, the countries that have entered the relocation process, that is, for refugees to be accepted, are very few. There is no Europe for a card. To the rights of everyone, but to the obligations of anyone who wants it. This is an issue that concerns Europe and the operation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u33	...to the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u34	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u35	Two countries in the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u36	So the reality is that it tells us that today, according to the official data of EUROSTAT, in the third quarter of 2015, new asylum applications in the European Union exceed four hundred thousand, while those countries that have entered the relocation process to welcome refugees are very few and cannot respond to that number. As far as our potential is concerned, then, we are doing more than we are concerned, and we hope that Europe will meet its commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister. It is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", thirty-six students and students and three teachers from Eleftheroupoli Kavalas High School in Section I. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first item under number 239/21/12-2015 will be discussed in the top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliament, Mr Doras Bakoyannis, to the Prime Minister, on the handling of the government in the process of recapitalising the banks. Here, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, a hashtag hashtag is on the Internet, specifically on twitter, on the subject of 'Rember 2015'. Thousands of users are holding back what's left of them since the difficult year he passed. It will not surprise you, Prime Minister, that you are protagonists, as your words and lines, which at the time seemed very clever, today dominated by only negative feelings. Me again, my favorite phrase is not yours. It belongs to a once-in-a-life friend and close associate of yours, Mr. Varoufakis - whom I imagine you want to forget - who, returning one night to his home, proudly said to his wife: "My love, I have closed the banks today." You remember him, Mr. President. I'm guessing you've been creeping, because you can't have figured out then... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Calm down, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u39	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u40	Calm down, gentlemen, temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u41	Don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, do not measure my time of interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u43	Keep going, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u44	Why you may not have understood where you were driving the Greek economy boat: directly on the iceberg, with the entire SYRIZA orchestra playing. Now we all know that last year Greece had developed, even thin, with the banking system stabilised. Today he's been reinstated in an even greater crisis. For what is our difference, ladies and gentlemen, from the other countries that entered the memorandum? That, for example, in Ireland and Cyprus the causes of the economic crisis were in the banking area. The banks dragged the states to the bottom. In Greece, on the other hand, the state also immersed the banks. And you came and managed to do the impossible. You closed down the banks, imposed capital controls, and charged our children and grandchildren. That's the point. So we have now come to talk about another recapitalisation, which would under relatively normal circumstances be totally unnecessary. We have now come to discuss the loss of public money and of public property, the weakening of public control over the banking system and the expropriation of banks. You said you wouldn't sell red loans to foreign funds. But after you sold the banks to foreigners, they'll automatically pass on the loans to them. You have given the wealth of the country and the life of our Greeks, businesses and industries. In December 2014, the CFS's portfolio was valued at EUR 13 billion. With the elections you provoked, with the communication show of the so-called negotiation in April of '15, you reached 6.5 billion. With your incredible policy of summer, the value collapsed in October to 2.4 billion. With your recapitalisation, it reached the bottom of 500 million. In no country, ladies and gentlemen, the public did not lose any recapitalisation of banks. No one! This is where we have global originality. In the United States, when the banks were stalled, their profit was great. And this in Greece was done by a government that blamed the previous ones for selling and attracting private capital to the banks, by the SYRIZA Government, who has always dictated the Stateisation of the banking system. To make it simpler and more understandable: With your actions and your omissions, you allowed the Greek banking system to fall into the hands of those who once described as "shops". You're celebrating, Prime Minister. You celebrate the success of the recapitalisation. Because, he says - and I listened to you with my ears -, the deposit haircut has been avoided. Congratulations, Prime Minister! Who was talking about cutting deposits last year, ladies and gentlemen? Nobody. You remind me of the joke with Honja, who put the donkey inside the house and when he took it out, he said: "Now we have too much comfort to breathe." At the same time, while you celebrate, Mr. Drasakis sent a letter to the banks asking whether there was a scandal during the process, and Mr. Stathakis in Parliament confessed the damage of the public by declaring disarmament: "We could not do anything else." Do me a favor, Mr President. Please do not say again that bank shares will go up, as you said the other day on television, because the next day they collapsed even further, which I imagine is the concern of everyone. Sometimes silence best serves the interests of the country. So answer the Greek people: Is it true that the Bank of Greece's monetary policy report for 2014-2015 argued that even in the first quarter of 2015 the banks' capital adequacy remained at satisfactory levels? Is it true that in 2014 the situation was stabilised and there was a gradual restoration of confidence in the domestic banking system? Is it true that the banking institutions regained part of their deposits, that they led to successful capital increases by raising 8.3 billion from the markets? Is it true that they issued securities worth about EUR 2.5 billion and zeroed their dependency on the exceptional support mechanism? Is it true that the flow of non-performing loans was dramatically reduced? Is it true that at the end of 2014 the capitalisation of public participation through the CFS in the systemic banking systems was established at 15 billion? What happened and they changed all this? The data are now sad, ladies and gentlemen. The total deposits and repos from credit institutions since the end of 2014 decreased by 50 billion, i.e. by 25%, unpaid loans increased rapidly, the value of the public-owned bank shares was about 2.5 billion from 15 billion at the end of 2014, that is, ladies and gentlemen, reduced by 85%. And the government's responsibility was to return the 11 billion billion of the Financial Stability Fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u45	Mrs. Bakoyannis, let's hold on to the denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u46	Yes, Mr. President, I'll be right over. Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's view is characteristic. In a report in July 2015, it confirms that there are significant risks to financial stability in Greece resulting from the uncertainty of the Greek Government's economic and financial policies in the first half of 2015. Mr President, the recapitalisation of the banks may be the most important example of your failure. He'll accompany you forever. And because, apart from the punitiveness and all that I have said, this is a huge issue, Mr President, I imagine that as with a large amount of ease you have announced an expert review committee on the recapitalisation made for the previous government, you will have the courtesy and the courage to include your own recapitalisation in this control. However, the New Democracy will certainly ask for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme: "The Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, sixteen students and students and an educational attendant from the private municipal school Kanassis - Cantemir. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr President-in-Office has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Bakoyannis, thank you for your timely question, as it enables me to focus once again on the fundamental issue of bank recapitalisation, so that we can now be finalised with a disgraceful and, I would say, populist bid on this issue. Because I fully understand the bitterness of some circles that might have been expected through a possible failure to recapitalise the banks - in fact, some people connected the recapitalisation process with the first assessment, to finish, says, first of all, the assessment and then the recapitalisation - to bring the Grexit scripts back through the window, which would come if Greece had bail in. Because on the basis of the data obtained after European legislation, since 2016 we have bail in, that is, the haircut of deposits, when we do not have a success in the process of recapitalisation. But I also understand the bitterness of some other circles, which might have intended or neglected, succeeded, the process of failure and some large systemic banks, so that with very little participation, at very little price, they could gain control over the banks. What amazes me is your own point of asking this question with this tone and with this style and adopting, in fact, unfoundedly, various conspiracy theories about supposedly selling out predators and other such imaginative things. First of all, to think that the banks needed new funds because of the bad operations, as you kindly say, of our own government in a few months' time, it shows that you are clearly ignoring the situation in which the banking system of the country was in place a year ago, especially at the beginning of the year, which we had a major outflow of deposits before we even took over, which, if they were not instigated then, certainly supported your various members, who today also claim the leadership of the party. Red loans had approached 40% before taking over. It was close to 80 billion euros. We've lost control ever since. The credit expansion was negative, showing that banks as they were unable to meet their key role in providing credit and liquidity to the economy. Let us now see one by one of the facts concerning the recapitalisation. The initial estimate in the agreement we made in July was that we would need 25 billion euros for the recapitalisation, which would be borrowed by the Greek State from the Financial Stability Fund. So it would be a further EUR 25 billion in debt on our backs. Later, after stress tests, the total capital requirement of systemic banks was calculated by the European Central Bank at EUR 14.4 billion. Ultimately, the HFSF only participated with EUR 5,43 billion, and so instead of initial estimates for EUR 25 billion, the Greek State is currently in charge of EUR 5,5 billion. So we've saved up to 10% of our GDP. In spite of the forecasts on the contrary, private investors had a significant stake. I accept that, with common sense, even after July, in August, in the conditions of the Greek economy after the harsh negotiation, no one could say with certainty that we will have such an important involvement. They would probably be going crazy for someone who would say in this Chamber that in two months' time 6.5 billion euros of private money will go into the bank market. However, 6.4 billion euros have entered a fact that seals investors' confidence in the Greek economy. So, is the fact that we have succeeded and entered with 6.5 billion private individuals shows despair or positive expectations of recovery, both from banks and from the economy as a whole? What was that about? Of course, as I said before, the public debt burden was drastically reduced. This is deliberately concealed and underestimated, and the reason is obvious, because it is not in the interest to hear. However, as regards the issue of banking control, the share participation of the CFSF may be smaller, but I think that a small child also realizes that a 40% percentage of a bank that goes to liquidation and has a negative outlook with a 25% percentage of a bank that is sufficiently recapitalisation, in absolute figures 25 is more important, stronger than 40. The 25 to a sufficiently recapitalised bank is more important than 40 to a bank that goes to liquidation. Everyone understands that. However, let us come to more specific issues, which are not just the percentage. Because new shares have full voting rights. So far, the majority share of the HFSF in the banks' share capital has had very limited voting rights. And what you have done since your recapitalisation, your resignation, the Samara government and, of course, was a global originality. You referred before as an example to the United States of America. That's where we had the statement of banks, Mrs. Bakoyannis. I do not remember well, did you then propose that Mr Samaras proceed to the stateisation of the banks and refused? Is that what you suggested? Because here there is a great contradiction with your positions, well known and expressed, about the role of the state, about the need for the free market that works well and all of this. I would remind you that in the previous recapitalisation, which took part in the CFS, the banks' administrations could keep their management, since they managed to attract from the private sector only 10% of their total needs. They're also unprecedented in time. I would also remind you - because some of you are forgetting these things and perhaps you have reason to forget them - the scandalous way of dismantling the agricultural bank and the Post Bank. And when I say you have reasons, I do not suggest that you cover some who have made these choices, but you may have reasons, because in particular in your rural parties they were badly paid. Over 250 million are the debts of PASOK and New Democracy. Even if for the next forty years what is available from a state budget you give it to pay back, you will never pay back, the Greek people will be charged, that's what you want! [[Applause]] Let me now come to the other crucial theme of delinquency, the famous delinquency of the banks. It is worth reminding and stressing that over time the majority of the shares of the Greek banks were held by foreign investors, before the crisis. An exception, of course, to the time of the crisis, after the first and second recapitalisations, which the HFSF acquired the majority, but, as I said before, without any real reason in the administration of the banks, as the shares did not have the right to vote. So what sudden disarmament do you talk about, and what does this word really mean? Are you talking about the equity composition? Are you talking about the administration of the banks? Are you talking about a reduction in the value of the shares, when since June 2012, when the country's governance took over until January 2015 and despite two recapitalisations, did you cause losses in the 66,5% bank index? And the evidence is known to everyone. I will give you just one example: Eurobank has lost in the years of your administration in stock exchanges 97.6% of its value, despite its scandalous subsidy at that time from the Post Bank. So you're telling us about foreign funds. As I said earlier, and in the past most of the shares were foreign investors. It is true that much of the funds attracted come from foreign capital and many of them with a short investment horizon. Did that not happen in 2013, when you were a government, in the recapitalisation? Are you surprised now? As I said before, however, what makes me wonder is that you say that, Mrs Bakoyannis, which is well-known to your views. So what exactly are you telling us? Same thing you're telling us about the banks, will you tell us tomorrow, and about the privatisations, where are you ideologically defending years? I believe you. Will you tell us "do not go any further if you don't find Greek capital to buy and foreign capital to invest"? Will you tell us the same thing? However, I would like to inform you that this is not the case in practice, because if we sum up - especially the two largest banks, Piraeus and the "National" - the share of the Greek State with what belongs to Greek investors, you will find that 66% in Greek and 55% in Greek. So where's the delinquency? I would also like to inform you that all systemic banks have entered IFC, International Finance Corporation, as well as EBRD for the first time. National funds were also attracted, sovereign funds, from Europe and the Middle East, Norway and Abu Dhabi, while the return of a French bank to the share capital of a Greek bank, Credit Agricole, to Alpha Bank, is indicative. At the same time, they maintained their participation in the long-term investors and in fact some increased their participation, such as FAIRFAX, and also participated in an extremely high percentage, as I said before, and important Greek investors. So you probably have a bad briefing on this, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Of course, we will continue to try to attract new long-term investors. The beginning has already been made. Stage by strengthening confidence, improving macroeconomic data, resolving the issue of public debt and introducing the country into the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme, which we believe will create a completely new picture of the Greek economy. I would also like to stress that the recent legislation we have passed improves the level of governance of banks and also of the Financial Stability Fund, while for the first time a procedure for assessing administrations is envisaged, which you as a government did not even think about, let alone you did not dare do in the recent past. The new recapitalisation, in spite of the difficulties, was designed to ensure that the Greek State fully safeguards the interests of the Greek State in the best possible way and can even lead to a total recovery of the amount allocated at this stage. 25% of public participation is in the form of common shares and 75% is in the form of special bonds, so-called Cocos. These bonds have a high interest rate of 8%, so banks will have a strong incentive to pay them back and return their money to the public. In addition, the agreement provides that the shares of the banks after the recapitalisation will be included in the management of the new independent Privatisation and Investment Fund, which aims to ensure better use of public assets, even by mentioning and avoiding the sale process, in the texts decided on by its establishment. All this has been achieved, and I repeat, under the strict limitation of 1 January, on the basis of the directive put in place for the resolution of banks, for deposits of more than EUR 100,000, for a risk of impairment. So you all realize that we were in front of a great danger that we avoided. And that would be a risk - and I close - regardless of whether we were fighting the negotiation or not. No one is happy that they were imposed on the country capital control. But anyone who tries to convince about the problems of the banks with red loans, which exceeded 80 billion euros and were ejected during your governance, saying that the banks needed recapitalisation because capital controls were imposed, all right, then it is demolished, it is not convincing and it is not convincing, because the reality is what it disguises. So the reality says that we took over at a time when there was a strong flight of funds from the banks had already begun, at a time when the grand depositors had already made their money abroad. Enterprises that are exclusively dependent on banking mediation are fully protected against a possible bank clearing and this is extremely important. In two words, banks are now fully capitalised, with a capital adequacy index of 19% compared to about 10% at European Union level, and so we believe that from now on they will be able to perform their intermediation function, inspire depositors confidence in returning money from mattresses and chests and bananas again to the real economy and banks, but above all move in and above the resolution of the Gordian bond of non-performing loans and provide a credit expansion towards Greek companies, with lower interest rates. Our aim, therefore, is for the banking system to return to its purely development role in financing business and creating jobs, which our economy and society so much need. So, Mrs Bakoyannis, I fully accept that this procedure - how did you tell me? - "will be chasing you, it will be stigmatizing you." Indeed, it will be chasing us because we have succeeded positively in overcoming this hump, we have managed to reach the great goal, having recapitalised banks, which are the first assessment, with the economy standing up and with society standing. We have managed to prevent the banks from suffering the great damage we have actually endangered because of the ambush some of us had set us up last July. Some people today are sad about this because they no longer have any other way of blackmailing the Greek Government by breaking up the banks, and that is why you should not be sad, but be happy. We are going to be positively chased by the way in which we have managed to rescue the banks, with society standing up, so that we can move forward with our objective, which is to complete the first assessment, so that we can reach the big national debt reduction target, and I hope that we will have an ally for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs. Bakoyannis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I have had the honour of being a Member of Parliament for twenty-five years. From the seat on which you sit have spoken great leaders. We agreed, we disagreed, sometimes at times, but we always recognised the political authority of the Greek Prime Minister. However, no one, Mr President, at least as far as I remember, has shown such fermentation. With all due respect, then, I will tell you that it is early for such a caesarism. All of us who have exercised power know two things: firstly, that we have all made legislative mistakes and, secondly, that, if you do not notice, you are removed from reality. It is no accident, Prime Minister, that what your group has just said only applauded you once when you attacked the New Democracy because within them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u51	Come on, ladies and gentlemen. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u52	...they know very well that the problem of recapitalisation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u53	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u54	It is a basic qualification for a parliamentary man to be able to listen to criticism. I'll introduce it to you. You'll need it very much next year. I'm on my way. The recapitalisation which took place created huge problems. I asked you specific questions. I did not get an answer to any of these questions. You tried to tell me if I'm ideologically in favour of demilitarization. I am, don't worry, Prime Minister. The truth, however, is that you have declared the need to state the Greek banking system, which of course belonged to a vast majority of the public through the Financial Stability Fund. You have nullified the fair value of the CFSF portfolio, which has so far spent over EUR 31,000,000 on systemic banks, without, unfortunately, a prospect of recovering these funds. And because the banks weren't in liquidation when you came to the government, claiming it today is just a lie. You, with your delays, inconsistencies and mistakes, have shaped the worst possible environment for recapitalisation, for which you are so much on today. But since you have not answered any of the other questions, I expect you to answer one now. Prime Minister, the National Bank does not seem to have been very successful in trying to attract funds. I would therefore like to know whether it is true that Finansbank has to sell underneath or about 2 billion, when the value of Finansbank, if I remember correctly, was something between 4 and 5. Is that true, Prime Minister? Is it true that there are shares of privilege, which on one night, by legislation, have become common? How much has this Greek State damaged? Could you inform the Greek Parliament and your own enthusiastic colleagues as well as the opposition, which is concerned? The Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, want answers and do not hide behind the results of the last elections. Today he is experiencing the results of this policy. And because of the attack on the New Democracy, you know that the New Democracy is proud of its route. We did our self-criticism for the weaknesses we had and perhaps we still have. At the same time, however, we can look the Greek people in the eyes. And I'm telling you this as a man who has always had his courage to criticise his own party. So don't get trapped in a moment. The New Democracy has come from far away and will go farther. The best defense is not always the attack, because you need to find the courage to answer questions. And since I have also made a final proposal to the President, I really do, Mr President, for the committee I have not heard a word. Will you include your own recapitalisation in this expert committee, as requested...? I am pleased that Mr Drasakis, from what I understand, advises you to accept. Because, badly lies, ladies and gentlemen, the results of this recapitalisation, yes, Mr Tsipras, will be coming after you for a long time! The 0,001 that made a share of a bank, which once became battles, is not honorable for your Government. The way you recapitulated the banks will be a stigma and chase you. It is a good thing, then, that this is going to be done in depth. However, I'm telling you my party will do it, look into it and give it the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mrs Bakoyannis. Prime Minister, you have the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u56	First of all, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that such an experienced parliamentarian, such as Mrs Bakoyannis, comes into a parliamentary controversy process and secondly reads from a text that 'the Prime Minister has not answered'. He had anticipated that he wouldn't answer. And he reads from a poetry text! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm returning your poems, Mrs. Bakoyannis. After all, it would be justified for a man who does not belong to a political fireplace to have a little pestilence, who manages to become Prime Minister at forty! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You who belong to a big political fireplace have to admit that things have changed in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u57	Tell us about the truck!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u58	I'll say about the truck. I've been talking for 20 minutes. Don't rush! And because you mentioned before, in your initial position, in an abstention, which relates to a very nice foreign film by the American film, if I am not mistaken, in relation to Mr Varoufakis - you said that he returned to the house at night and said: 'My love, I closed the banks', from: 'I dragged the children', I imagine, the corresponding one - I will answer you with a corresponding film title: 'Look who speaks!' Who are they talking to? Those who plundered this place for more than twenty - five years! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I would like to ask you, Mrs Bakoyannis: The destruction in that country has been brought to bear by the seven months that this people dared to come out before me with pride and dignity and a government to claim its rightfulness in Europe or you, of 'yes' to everything and subjection?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u59	With great ease, I'll answer you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u60	And because, Mrs Bakoyannis, your prolongation a year and a half ago was talking about a success story in this Chamber and it was implementing a budget that had a double value adjustment than our own, difficult budget, I would remind you that your own success story of the five-year period, which increased the red loans of the first two agreements, supported by the New Democracy and the PASOK, increased red loans by EUR 53 billion, from EUR 22 billion to EUR 78 billion! This is your success story and your success! And now you're coming here to show the muzzle to us, trying to wash out the laundry that you've left for so many years in this place. We're going to wash them! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because you tell me that I am not speaking with data, I tell you that the financial position, based on the Financial Stability Fund, on 31-12-2014, that is, last year, compared with 31-12-2013, had accumulated losses of EUR 25 billion. This situation has been found by your own government in the Greek economy and banks! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Of course you say here that you want to set up committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u61	What about us? You made them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u62	All the committees you want! For both the banks and the loans of your parties, you want to load them on the back of the Greek people with night amendments. All the committees you want! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But you should know one thing: this government has a position of responsibility and responsibility towards the Greek people and towards the future of this country. Maybe some people are upset. I am not talking about you and I never wanted to question your national commitment. But some are sad because Greece will succeed. They are the ones who wanted Greece outside the Eurozone, outside Europe, outside Schengen, generally outside. We're gonna disprove them. We have already managed to proceed with the first recapitalisation at the least cost. The first recapitalisation was the great shell we managed to overcome, with difficulty, but we overrun it intactly. Now, the first assessment comes close to us, and we have already achieved considerable victories in the tough negotiation with partners and creditors, such as the one we achieved yesterday by saving the public character of IPTO, when you were aiming to sell half of PPC. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Some people may now also be saddened by the fact that Greece is again gaining a prestigious regional force, with its cooperation in the Southeast Mediterranean region, with the agreement, which we managed the other day, to create the vertical IGB pipeline, which will link the TAP with the former Eastern countries, with the positive developments in the critical debt issue. For there are not only the "pads" of the extreme conservative circles, which are constantly struggling "exodus, Grexit, catastrophe". There are also leaks, which proves that the write-down of debt - as was printed yesterday in a very prestigious newspaper, The Wall Street Journal - has already begun to organise. There are serious thoughts and, if we do so, it will be a great national success, which all of you will have to applaud, and all of you, together, to move forward in order to finally get the place out of this hostage and the exercise of sovereignty over recent years. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Finally, as far as Finansbank and the National Bank are concerned, do you know what the restructuring plan of the National Bank signed by your government was? If you have no knowledge of this plan, get it. We are therefore moving on all the crucial issues with a attitude of national responsibility and with the main aim of defending the public interest and of achieving it, despite the tins.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u63	Answer? Yok!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the current questions to the Prime Minister has been concluded and we will continue with the other topical questions scheduled for debate. Before entering the debate on the rest of the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question report to the House on Monday, 14 December 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. By No 278/8-12-2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Evangelias Karakostas to the Minister of Finance concerning the replacement of his order. 4172/2013, which defines as business transaction the sale of real estate. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Georgios Vlachos with regard to the introduction of the system of objective determination of the land price in the 4th Hellenic Urban Planning Unit of the Municipality of Marathon. 3. The question by No. 268/7-12-2015 of the Greek People's Association MEP - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi to the Minister of Health, concerning the complaints of doctors about loss of tools and machinery from the ORL clinic of the hospital of Rio. 4. The 283/8-12-2015 topical question by Z' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health about the problems of anti-physical vaccination in Greece. 5. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the European Parliament, on the ratification of the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation (WHO) No 275/8-12-2015. for Tobacco Control. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Finance about the malfunctions in the area of restaurants and related businesses by how to calculate municipal taxes. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 264/7-12-2015 of the Greek MP, Mr Spyridonos-Adonis Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the treatment of the smuggling of tobacco products and the institutional protection of tobacco retailers. 3. The question by No 269/7-12-2015 of the Greek Association - Golden Dawn MEP Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the bureaucratic obstacles to the production of the legendary Greek car Pony. 4. The 284/8-12-2015 topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "the intervention of the employer in the operation of the Workers' Association in the Supermarket "ARVANITIDE". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 456/30/22-10-2015 question and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens of New Democracy Mr Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Finance concerning the public debate between the Government and the Secretary-General of Public Revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a short break before the process is resumed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. The fifth question will now be discussed under number 281/8-12-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece. Emmanuel Synthraki to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Security and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the reintegration of the forty-two employees of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete by WASTE SOLUTIONS. This timely question will be answered by Mr Georgios Katrugalos. Mr Emmanuel Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the recycling plant in Heraklion serves the Prefecture of Heraklion and the Municipality of Agios Nikolaos, Neapolis, Sitia and Ierapetra. This recyclable material sorting centre has been operating since 2006 with two-year contracts concluded by contractors with the «ELLENIKI REQUIREMENTS OF RECORDING S.A.», the known EAEC. At least since 2008 all the contractors who took over the plant have maintained the staff as a whole, with all its rights, as they are experienced and efficient in their work. Workers won these rights with their four-month heroic strike in 2012 and would maintain them until 31 October 2015. In fact, there was a productivity clause for workers. On 31 October 2015, therefore, the contractor of the former company managing the recycling plant and taking over the company ‘WASTE SOLUTIONS’, based in Aspropyrgos, expired. Despite the fact that at the first meeting, on 21 October, between workers and company, the latter committed themselves to recruiting all old workers and with the same employment relationships, the contractor failed this agreement, provoked their dismissal and tried to recruit new staff with less rights. So the company is trying to reduce the already low wages for the nature of this job. I would remind you that wages started from EUR 751 mixed with the old National General Association Convention and even without the Act of the Ministerial Council, which reduced wages by 22%. The company now tells them about wages from EUR 490 to EUR 600, an increase of EUR 0.40 a day, abolition of heavy and unhealthy presses and much more. As for already working people, that is to say, new workers, the company asked them to offer their services free of charge and test for fifteen days, as many as they needed to train young people and then to throw them out. The company cannot claim to be unable to pay these poor wages too, because if you look at the 2013 and 2014 profit balance. It operates three ADIs, in Elefsina, in Lamia, in western Thessaly, and in previous years it signed contracts with the Attica Region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Do you mind, Minister, what do these workers do? They're collecting garbage. They take over from WWII grenades to syringes, medical waste and, without any excess, brains. The employer, in fact, also asks for the change! Two tripartite meetings were held at the Ministry on 20 and 27 November - to which I participated - and the contractor held a provocative attitude towards the workers and their representatives. Especially in the second, his attitude was so provocative, he said he has every right to make any recruitments he wants, whenever he wants, with any employment status he wants. He defined his own intake criteria, such as physical imaging, height, age, experience, health. He almost said about workers' dentition, like riders look at horses in the marketplace. Workers, therefore, at the recycling plant, unanimously decided to demand that this company hire them all, while maintaining all their working rights. Forty days recycling in Heraklion has stopped - you probably know it - and as a result the waste is buried in the dump. In other words, two prefectures for forty days are hostages of the contractor. Note that the Municipality of Heraklion is damaged daily with EUR 2,500. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you, Minister, what measures will you take after the closure of the factory for forty days after workers' racing in order to re-entry immediately all of them - and forty-two - with exactly the same working relationships? They conquered it. They can't go back. Secondly, what attitude will you take towards the contractor who has put in hostage forty two families and two prefectures - Heraklion Prefecture and Lassithi Law - while public health is at risk, as it ignores provocative decisions to support bodies, associations, municipal councils and the Crete Regional Council? Thank you, Madam President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Katrugalos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I have stated to the similar questions of the Communist Party of Greece that we are trying to deal with the working jungle which has actually been created in the country and because of the deregulation of the memoranda and because of the generalised crisis, with the tools available to the Ministry of Labour. These tools do not reach the revocation of redundancies unilaterally by the Ministry of Labour. These tools are mainly two, namely the exercise of controls through the Labour Inspectorate, so that every time we have a breach of existing legislation - something that you unfortunately know is common, with workers being unpaid, paid for four hours and work eight, with multiple violations - there are checks, fines being imposed and legality being observed. Where we have cases of working games, such as the specific factory you mentioned - and I do recognise the self-evident thing you said, the particularly unfavourable working conditions in which workers work in the field of recycling - we are trying to strengthen workers' claims with the other possibility that the Ministry of Labour has, that is to say, convening three-way reconciliation meetings in the Ministry, which we are always trying to do as much for the world of work as we can. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] I have said that precisely because these meetings have no binding content, all they can do is strengthen workers' struggles. In some cases this is a success, such as in the Yannina business, for which we had discussed a similar question for Members of your party. In any case, we are trying to make the burden of our own efforts, as I have told you, in favour of fair claims by workers. This has also been done in this case. Two meetings were held at the Ministry of Labour. A number of commitments have been made by employers. We're at your disposal, if you think it would help, call back to a third meeting and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Madam President. There were no commitments on the part of employers, Minister, they did not exist. In fact, I told you in the protology that in the second tripartite they were much more aggressive towards workers. Be careful, on the one hand, the company said that in total it will employ a hundred people - this is its ambition - and it will start with ten recruitments, but on the other hand, in order to operate the plant at least for forty people. And I, on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, and their workers said: “What better? The already forty-two that you have and are proven experienced, you have nothing to indulge them, take them along the way and get a hundred extra staff." "No, I'll fire them and then I'll hire whoever I like." Is that the logic? So where is the government, the ministry, to take a stand against it? Should we have a third meeting on what basis? Should the employer come even more aggressive against the workers? It is clear that the new contractor wants to get rid of the workers who had won - I repeat - with their strike struggle in 2012 to maintain their wages at the levels set by the collective agreements with seven hours, due to unhealthy work, heavy and unhealthy times and when overtime had to be done, they were legally paid. The workers then set up a union committee, supported by the association of private employees, their own association. Through this struggle, they prevented redundancies and any negative changes in industrial relations. Indeed, they have also set up a committee on health and safety to improve unacceptable conditions within the plant. But that's not all. It's like they're ruthless. Employees are ruthless. They have been in racing forty days, able to gain the support of dozens of actors, unions and all of the people of Heraklion. I tell you that the Municipality of Heraklion, the Municipality of Maleviziou, the Region of Crete and many other institutions, about thirty, support this struggle of workers. Also, the OTA association is in their fight. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And not just that, I would say to you that in the mobilisations, the support of the unemployed workers that the company tried to hire to use them as a siege ram and to confront workers made redundant in order to break the mobilisation and break the labour rights and the conquests. They are trying, in other words, to break the unity of the workers, filing a complaint against strangers on November 2, and threatening to arrest workers outside the factory. It should be noted that the workers did not stop anyone from entering or leaving the factory. The contractor, on his own responsibility, has been holding the factory shut forty days. In fact, the representatives of the company tried with the police escort to put in unemployed workers for work and the workers themselves said: 'We do not go in, we stand up to colleagues'. He says one: "I am unemployed for three years, but I do not go in and work for crumbs and find myself in front of them." This race is trying to break the employer's mind. That's why he doesn't want them at work, so he doesn't want them inside the factory. So it has a political dimension. In Ioannina, you know, the MATs were hit on behalf of the employer. Is Heraklion in turn now? What's your position on this? Because the immediate next choice of the employer, in the face of the resistance of the workers, what will it be? What do you intend to do, what attitude will you take toward it? The logic is to sit down and find them " both with the police officer and the policeman!" Social peace, consensus, social dialogue proves that the barbaricity of capitalism cannot be objectively achieved. This system is always bored in favour of the capitalist and employers. That is why workers are determined to go this story to the end and to be vindicated once again by opening up the way, of course, to all the workers who fight and fight for their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u71	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u72	As I have said several times, we fully agree that in the conflict of capital and work, at the end of the correlation between social forces, it is considered who will be the winner. And in the correlation between social forces, baron is the social struggles, as you described them, of the workers themselves and of society that supports them. The only thing we can do is whatever institutional burden the Ministry has to put it in favour of the workers' side. That's what we're committed to doing. And that's what we do. In this case, as you know - I read it in the Minutes - the Ministry, in fact, stood in the tripartite compromise in favour of the immediate intake of forty workers. From there on, any other measure you know is in the institutional capacity to do it, to propose it and to do so. I have told you on several occasions and officially that on this point, namely, the protection of workers against the work jungle, I consider you to be de facto allies, regardless of ideological differences. I don't suggest we agree ideologically. But we have to deal with a regular issue: dealing with this terrible situation in the workplace. I am prepared to tell me that there are issues, as a party, as a trade union movement and obviously not just you, but every trade union party of workers, to intervene immediately, so that where we have a direct violation of the principle of legality, to restore legality, where there is a question, to strengthen fair struggles, fair workers' requests, with whatever institutional capacity we can recognise the legal framework, to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u73	The first question will then be discussed under number 276/8-12-2015 of the Second-cycle MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the support and use of the National Centre for Quality Control, Classification and Standardisation of cotton in Cardiff. Here, Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as you know, Karditsa is a county in which cotton cultivation is the most agricultural activity. Support for cotton production and the improvement of cotton quality must be the government's primary objective in order to achieve a better product competitiveness and better place it on the world market. Our prefecture is based by the National Cotton Center for the certification of product quality. The centre was constructed with high standards and high technology, as required by international standards for cotton grading laboratories. It has one of the latest laboratory equipment systems for measuring cotton quality characteristics. I believe that this National Centre for Quality Control, Classification and Standardisation of cotton is the most important tool that the Greek State has today to develop a strategy for the product and for the certification of its quality. It is also the only body left after the abolition of the cotton Agency and the Institute of cotton and Biotechnological Plants and supervises two regional cotton classification centres, Thessaly and Central Greece. Since 2011, it has been a self-financed project, serving the quality certification needs on behalf of ginning enterprises, seed companies, product dealers and genetic cotton materials. At the same time, it plays the role of arbitration in the cotton market and its credibility within and outside the country is relevant to its mode of operation and administration. Flexibility, high know-how, organisation and precise programming are therefore needed. Minister, this centre falls under the "ELGO - DIMITRA" which is supervised by your Ministry. Unfortunately, the National Centre for Cotton has not been exploited by the Greek state, as envisaged by the original objectives of its establishment and while today it provides a great service to the cotton market, it is facing serious administrative, bureaucratic problems and a lack of staff. They put their proper functioning at risk. So I ask you: what measures do you intend to take to support the National Couple of Couples? How do you plan, Minister, to take advantage of this body in the development of a cotton product strategy? And finally, how will you connect this strategy to the national planning for rural development for the benefit of the economy of Karditsa, Thessaly and our country in general? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. Before giving the floor to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and a teacher from Eleftheroupolis Kavalas Gymnasios Gymnasios (B' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides]] Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u76	Dear colleague, you have raised many issues. Your question is very important and I thank you for giving me, in particular, the opportunity to refer to a product which is very important for our country. In this respect, therefore, we must support it with specific policies. Indeed, the role and responsibilities of the National Cotton Centre you mentioned are many. I'm going to dial a few to show the role that he really has to play. It is the conduct of the country-wide cotton standardisation by modern methods and on the basis of international standards. It is the exercise of the role of arbitration in the cotton market, in accredited fields mainly relating to quality. It is the organisation, implementation and coordination of actions, of course, in cooperation with the Ministry, which relate to improving the quality and competitiveness of the product. It is, of course, also the keeping of computer files and databases for drawing up the course of the quality of Greek cotton, which you mention and channels to the Ministry of Rural Development, ELGO - DIMITRA, ginning companies and the interprofessional cotton organisation. Our main aim, therefore, is for Greek cotton to acquire identity, to facilitate its promotion in the international market and above all to gain added value. In the context of achieving these objectives, therefore, and in order to resolve problems that have arisen in general in the industry, we have set up a committee, a group, involving representatives of ginners, textiles, cotton producers and service providers. The president of the National Cotton Centre is also involved. The task of this group is, among other things, to develop and support this centre. Greece is the seventh export country and the tenth in world production. For the first time, our country has an accredited ISO17025 test laboratory to certify quality and exercise the role of arbitration, as I said, in the cotton market, which most countries have been doing for many years, while our own traffickers and merchants have previously sent samples for a business on quality results in foreign countries. The National Cotton Center is the only one left to inform producers, ginning companies and traffickers, mostly, about the importance of quality, as I mentioned earlier. For us, for the state, it is a tool for developing and implementing a product quality strategy. As we will support it, because above all we support a product, cotton, which is connected, I would say, in the way of life, with culture, especially in regions of Thessaly. And indeed, there is also a huge prospect for cotton, because after a period of downturn in the world market, it seems to open up prospects and in that direction, we will support it. With regard to this particular National Cotton Centre, I will say more in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u77	Come on, Mrs. Katsavria.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As I mentioned in my protology, the credibility and effectiveness of the National Cotton Centre is relevant to the way it operates and runs. The decision to set up it provided for the operation of four sections: Division of Classification - Standardization, Department of Technology, Fibre and Thread, Division of Arbitration and Secretariat. Only the Classification - Standardization Division operates from these sections. The other sections, while there are modern infrastructure and laboratory equipment, which unfortunately is not used, with negative impact on its future function, are inactive, as there is no staff required. Also, to date, Minister, the only decision taken by the management of the centre is the placement of a head of staff, who, unfortunately, has not yet been entrusted with such responsibilities. The remaining staff of the centre, two GNIs, one TTEs, one PI, two PI administrators - one of whom will soon be retired - and one PI cleanser does not even meet the needs of the section that operates today. The Ministerial Decisions establishing the Centre shall also determine the financing from the increased aid provided for in the relevant Regulation of the European Union 1307/2013, Article 59 and Article 60 on improving the quality and competitiveness of the product. I would therefore suggest that the Rules of Procedure should finally apply. I also propose that this centre should also take over the certification of the cotton varieties declared by proliferation companies at the Institute of Variety Control in Thessaloniki, which does not have a laboratory. Minister, the National Centre for Cotton is a ready-made tool in the hands of the state, which needs to be used to develop a strategy, to improve the quality and competitiveness of Greek cotton, by producing a classified, standard product that meets the needs of the international market. So what I ask, Minister, is to ensure the proper and effective functioning of the National Cotton Centre, and this is only done with its administrative and financial autonomy. The solution is the National Centre for cotton to report directly to the central administration of "ELGO - DIMITRA" or to the Directorate-General for Research. Otherwise I fear that the administrative insufficiency and the meaningless bureaucratic process will deprive our country of the possibility of obtaining official data on the quality of Greek cotton that the interested and foreign traffickers are persistently asking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u79	Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u80	Dear colleague, let's see how the National Cotton Center was created, so we can see how it works. First of all, it acted as a regional control and standardization centre. The centers founded were two: The Karditsa centre, to which you refer, as well as another based by Orthomenos Voiotias. These were included in the "ELGO - DIMITRA". This is the situation that has been shaped today. The Carditsa Centre has indeed modern facilities and workshop equipment for the latest technology. It is also one of the most modern cotton conference centers. In fact, its capacity exceeds five hundred persons. It is very important, as far as the whole of its organisation, staff and function are concerned. Indeed, the Orthomenos office, due to the position in which it was installed, has presented many problems and has finally been downgraded, I would say. Only a participation in circular tests does it just so that the accreditation it has remains. However, the activities of the National Cotton Centre of Cardiff are controlled, supervised by "ELGO - DIMITRA" and carried out, I would say, in the form of a self-financed project, that is to say, the provision of services to third parties, paid on the basis of the cost decided by "ELGO - DIMITRA" and at prices which are very low for producers, because we absolutely have to support them. A recent evaluation of this centre’s work showed that there is really good function and that it has prospects to develop even more. As far as its administrative function is concerned, this is done within the framework of the "ELGO - DIMITRA" regulations, which has as much autonomy as possible in order to facilitate the performance of its tasks, but above all in order to serve what we call its autonomous operation. Now, from there on, they are issues of their own, of their respective agencies, of the administrative boards. However, what I want to tell you is that so far it has a very good function. I inform you that in the framework of the NRP 2007-2013, more than two thousand samples had actually been counted. It is a very serious job and a job that has helped both the ginners and producers, because it seemed that these people have shown great interest. It has also submitted three research proposals for the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, related to measure 16-1, concerning the establishment and operation of operational teams of the European Innovation Partnership for productivity and sustainability of agriculture. In this case, we are talking about cotton. The second programme that it has asked for is measure 16-5 on cooperation for environmental projects, environmental actions and actions on climate change and, thirdly, a programme to highlight cotton production, a designation of origin ‘Thessaly cotton’, in cooperation with producer groups, ginning companies and clones. It also plans too many jobs for 2016, which will also be done in collaboration with the ginning companies, with the producers. In other words, I would like to say that this centre really has the possibility - there are conditions - to respond to what is specifically called for for cotton, to return cotton as a traditional product to the position that has been in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. In the next, the second, with number 263/7-12-2015, the second time question of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukorous to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the suspension of the authorisation of renewable energy projects by Regional Directorates for Rural Economy and Veterinary Affairs will also be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, my timely question is being discussed. I have to tell you that it is an institution that I believe in very much. I also believe that if there is good will and will on the government side, many problems can be solved. I have tabled four topical questions in the current parliamentary term and, believe me, they are all aimed at strengthening the effort to find equivalent measures that the government is looking for. I would therefore like to remind you about this issue, the question of self-production by farmers, of the legal framework. In 2010, the issue of high productivity land was finalised. Now we all know that there we can only produce products and make use of renewable energy sources. But there comes Mr. Minister, Mr. President. In order to apply production, a joint ministerial decision must be adopted by the Ministers for the Environment and Rural Development, and this has not been done. In conjunction with the December 2014 decision, which now institutionalises self-production, the so-called 'net metering', all farmers remain at home - because, above all, I am referring to them - who want to carry on self-production in order, Minister, as you best know, to take into account the costs of production that they have raised and the increase in VAT and all the factors that form the cost of production. I would therefore like to know whether you intend to issue the joint ministerial or ministerial decision, so that the rural development directorates we have been talking about here and now confirm that they are investments that are less than 1% of the land of high productivity, so that these investments of farmers can be authorised and, as I said before, they can cost less than 1% of the land. I must inform you, as you may know, Minister, that with archaeology and forests there is no longer any problem. The thing is now stuck in rural development addresses because of the requirement of the 2011 Ministerial Decision. In my dentistry, I'll give you some extra information.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u84	Mr Colleagues, it is the Ministry of Rural Development which must keep in mind and in its policies, the defence of the land of high productivity. You referred to the relevant case-law which gave that possibility. I will start by telling you that Article 24 of the Constitution speaks of protecting especially the agricultural land of high productivity. And, of course, the relevant case-law of the Council of State is clear. This particular land must be protected, and indeed its destination, in the penitentiary, which will be the agricultural holding, excluding any use other than that in question. It speaks, of course, that in specific cases, in exceptional cases, I would say, this matter may be overruled. As the energy needs of farmers can certainly be integrated, we have previously tabled a proposal to replace the first paragraph of Article 21 of the Treaty. Date of birth: 4015/2011. As regards the second question concerning the adoption of the corresponding joint Ministerial Decision on the delimitation of high-quality land under the provisions of the Law. 2637/1998, an important role in our decision will play the final receipt of the approved work of the NSRP in the framework of the NSRP 2007-2013 entitled ‘Developing a single system of information on the terrain and demarcation of rural areas in the country’. You realise that demarcation of rural areas in the country is something that we must have, that this approach is over. Recently we had a meeting with the OPCEDEA unit responsible for monitoring this project, who told us that we will be delivered by the end of 2015, will be received. So you realise that that is where we are going to have this debate. I repeat, however, that we can see that, given the energy needs of the rural area and, of course, bearing in mind that too many issues have arisen in terms of the management of the land of high productivity, which we must take seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you referred to the land of high productivity. But the 2010 Act - as I said before - makes it clear that investment in renewable energy can not be more than 1% of all high productivity land. It is therefore not a question of changing the character of high productivity lands. Production is of interest to us. With these investments and a reduction in production costs, production will also be strengthened. After all, you will read in the report of the National Bank of Greece that, unfortunately, in recent years, while other European countries have managed - and worldwide - to increase their agricultural production by 20%, we have increased it by 1% or 2%. We need to look for ways - and there are smart ways, Minister - to drop production costs. I believe that one of the ways is electricity, which is the biggest exit today for farmers. I think you should move on to the ministerial decision, because here we are not talking about investors - you have referred to the problems that have arisen - that sell electricity to PPC for profit. We are talking about auto producers, we are talking about net metering, we are talking about power generation within the limits of the needs of each farmer. I would even suggest that such investments, which are a few tens of thousands of euros, should be included in the upcoming NSRP so that more farmers can meet their energy needs. You have also referred to rural meteorology and to some programmes that are being prepared. I'm glad to hear you. And I would like to say that another smart solution to drop production costs is this: If you address the Agricultural University at the Department of Agriculture, you will see that that is where experts are already working. One of these is "farming of precision" through satellite images. With an investment that does not exceed EUR 2 per acre, Minister, we can drop production costs both in water and in nitrogen fertilisers up to 30%, as Greek scientists say. Since farmers' taxation comes too - sooner or later, we all know that, Minister - I think the state must discover those smart tools with which it will facilitate production. Because that is our problem, in production and, above all, in the primary sector, in agriculture and livestock. I would therefore ask you in your dentext to be a little more specific and to give a hope to the rural world that soon they will be able to cover part or all of their energy needs in order to bring about the cost of production. Unless it conflicts this request with more general political decisions of the Government on renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u88	My dear colleague, I repeat what I said before, that we will see this positive once we receive this study, of course, in the context of covering energy needs and demarcation of rural areas. Let me tell you something that, unfortunately, is happening in this country, but we have not approached it so far. The only land that can cover all uses is rural land. For all other land, there are special - I would say - regulations, protection for agricultural land. As you can see, taking into account the half-heartedness of our country, the available agricultural land, and especially the productive agricultural land, is reduced compared to what is happening in the geomorphology of the country. I would mention to you the characteristic cases: L.4178/2013 - I have noted it - that the Minister for Rural Development did not sign it, because it actually allowed the construction of almost all of the agricultural land of high productivity. Something like that had happened in 2005, before, with v. 33/1999. I repeat, do not consider that we will not address the issue of energy needs. However, since the debate gives us the opportunity, let us focus on the fact that we must protect the land of high productivity, given that we are talking about the needs of rural areas, of food adequacy, of productive reconstruction. If, then, we do not guarantee this groundwork for high productivity, you realize that our words are not going to find any response. I conclude by saying that once the relevant contact has been made and we have had the debate on this matter, we will have a positive attitude to the subject and we will have a regulation on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u89	The fourth question, number 282/8-12-2015, will now be discussed at the second time by the Member of the Lesbos Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the problem of the technological educational institutions of the country. Mr Tassos' question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. I see Mr. Tassos isn't in the Chamber. Wait a minute or should we go to the next one? It is not one of our next colleagues. So we'll wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u90	The ministers are here and the MPs are gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Our question, as you know, refers to the shortcomings that exist in staff at the TEI. The situation has, of course, reached the unprecedented, I would say, because from 2008 to 2015 the reduction in teaching staff reaches 80%. In particular, since 2008, we have had about two thousand two thousand jobs in teaching staff, until 2014-2015 there has been a 61% reduction, that is, it has reached the eight hundred forty-six. And in one year, the year when SYRIZA was in government, this downward trend continued, and so we went from what eight hundred sixteen places to seven hundred one, that is, another 17% reduction. In other words, we had a total reduction of about 80%. A similar figure, of course, was also the reduction in government spending, about 80%. Of the staff currently serving - that is, from the seven hundred-seven-six - the vast majority, the six hundred-seven, that is, 92%, are non-permanent staff posts paid out by the institutions' reserves. Only fifty-four posts are paid by the state budget. The situation, of course, as you can see, has reached the unprecedented, because the theory lessons are cut off, workshops are compacted, students cannot report lessons to get their degrees as they are removed from their curriculum programs due to lack of staff. And it is clear that these developments are part of the strategic targeting of the previous governments, but also of the current government, in order to change the nature of the TEIs, many of the departments develop into cheap training providers. Thus, on the ground of the tragic underfunding, the TEI departments are being promoted more closely with the jewels of large enterprises, with direct costs in the pocket and in the education of students. So we ask: What measures will you take to immediately recruit all the necessary teaching and other staff and to teach with sufficient competence all the courses of the TEI, to carry out workshops without shortcomings in scientific and laboratory partners, to stop the unacceptable status of contracted teachers and to call directly for posts for teaching staff with a permanent and stable job relationship? Also, until recruitment is completed, all necessary measures must be taken to prevent students from being prevented from completing their studies. I would like to say here that the vast majority of staff - 80% to 100% - are in four-month contracts and cannot even cover the six-month period. In fact, in some parts of this kind of regional employment relationship reaches 100%. Also, much of the staff are university scholars, who are paid if they are found, if the income is obtained. I would therefore like a concrete answer to the questions I have put.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u93	Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Tassos, thank you for the question. You described reality, but half the reality. We've left her out the other half. You did, of course, criticise the government, that it is the same as the others, and that it wants to do private or connect to private companies, etc. TEI. The whole reality is that for decades there have been infinite divisions in the country for party and clientele reasons from each minister, without any study, economics, or scientific, or market connections. And that's not all that's done, but all these departments didn't have at least the staff they should have. And I'm talking about the periods before the economic crisis. It is enough for the economic crisis and makes this nightmare scenery even more nightmareous and the "ATHENA" project is added, where in a completely irrational way it has come to tie up this whole tragic system. So you blame us for being like others and trying to be in this policy. So I will inform you that in addition to the six hundred forty-seven posts - plus the fifty-four that we received from the ordinary budget - in addition to the eighty-six that we have just requested on 24 November, as an extraordinary training staff for the Central Greek TEIs - where we really have shortcomings, but it has a sufficient reserve for the TEI - instead of making redundancies or putting ourselves in availability, we were barely hiring and with great difficulty in this economic narrowness. We hired two hundred - a hundred ninety-five people in fact - as a specialist, scientific, laboratory staff, for whom they are imminent - and will come - an amendment because these people had been elected since 2008-2009 and had never been recruited. So we immediately made sure that they were recruited. Unfortunately, these positions, which are now, with an amendment to come to Parliament in the next few days, had been abolished, we are recommending them again so that their appointment can be completed. At the same time, we hired fifty LAG members who were still in employment, as well as thirty teachers - members, mainly educational staff for TEIs. I'll tell you what, these places are not enough to fill in the gaps. I totally agree with you, I'm a university, we've got old and dedicated HEIs. However, what we have done in this parallel programme that the government has set up is now, in 2016, to move on to new recruitment. I am still unable to tell you the exact number, but a number that will allow the higher education institutions to take a breath. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u96	Madam Minister, in order to speak in terms of physics a little, you know, only the opposing forces, i.e. forces in the opposite direction, can compete with each other. When the forces are homogeneous, they move in the same direction, they are added to each other. What do I mean by that? Our educational system is directly interconnected with the socio-economic system in which we live and the socio-economic system in which we live is called capitalism. And capitalism means the operation of the economy for profit rather than for social needs. So when the current government accepts the ironic laws of operation of this system, of the capitalist system, of course, within the European Union, in which it states its faith, it is fatal that the educational system is geared towards this objective, namely that teaching should also be linked to the higher education institutions, both to the HEIs and TEIs, with the needs of the large companies. It cannot therefore become a genuine national planning to produce scientists that meet the needs of society. Scientists will be produced according to market needs, as is repeatedly said. And the needs of the market are the needs of large businesses. We are therefore saying that there is no conflict of opposition, that is conflict with that logic, but conflict with that logic. And only one counterprocess, a conflict procedure with that logic, can make things a little better. For us, that is, the definitive solution and the problem of higher education and function and staffing and instruments is directly linked to a overthrow of this system. But we say that, in order to gain something within this system, this will only be done through a conflict procedure and not a process of social consensus and dialogue, which, in the end, will actually end up doing what the big chapter wants in the field of education too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u97	Mrs Readingstopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u98	Mr Tassos, we must take this debate as much as you wish, but I think that ideological embezzlement and ideological purity are not solved at all. For so many years we have managed in this country, and with customer relations, and with all of this in the European Union, and with the various problems in the whole system and in the capitalist system, to maintain public education in one way or another. I have said many times in this House that we are in war conditions. If you think that direct conflict is the best way of doing this, as SYRIZA, as the other left wing, we believe that especially when one is in such financial impoverishment, one cannot go to a frontal conflict. Because if he goes to a frontal conflict, those who want to protect them have already condemned them in advance, they are the first to become impoverished. But if that's the JRC line, I can't say anything. What I am saying is that in these war conditions that we are, within this capitalist system, we must, in my view, keep up these pillars that are really pillars of resistance and resistance are public education. With nails and teeth, it is not limited at all, it is not enough to cut off student care at all - you saw it in the budget, I said it - it is not enough, it is not enough. I'll agree with you. I see it inside, but we tried not to cut any of the things that would enable them to stay, to fight survival - not to survive, to watch what I say - the weakest social groups. As for recruitment, etc., I told you again, I am one of the first to see subscribing, but we are also the first to be recruited from 2009 onwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u99	The next two questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Before I give the floor, however, to the Minister, I would like to announce that the third, with number 277/8-12-2015, to the University General Hospital of Ioannina, and the fourth, with number 267-12-2015, is the first question of MP I'Mr Piracy of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of National Defence, on the supply of missiles from abroad for the Greek Army of Xiras will not be discussed by the relevant ministers and deleted. Furthermore, the question by No 258/7-12-2015 of the Independent Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the reduced funding in the second half of the Pre-Accession Institutions of the Region of Western Macedonia, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member and deleted. We will now discuss the fifth under number 274/8-12-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on dealing with the smuggling of tobacco products, increasing public revenues by combating tax evasion and institutional armouration of the market. Mr. Dimitris Kammenos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Alexiadis, good morning. This is a very well-known matter. It is because, as we all know, the questions are being tabled, I will make a brief description of the issue. Tax policy on tobacco products and the deregulation of the retail market in tobacco products have failed completely since 2009 - we will say so - because we too have not practically managed to harmonise and bring the changes and bills needed to combat both tax evasion and the process of tracing tobacco products. The total loss of public revenue was estimated by Mr Marda, the former Minister of Finance, at EUR 900 million per year. On my own data, I have calculated that tax evasion is multiples, rather the income of the state that escapes. A bill submitted by the co-legislative ministries and following the provisions of the Law. 3943/2011 and had been announced at the beginning of September, the purpose of which was the imprecise and effective method of combating tax evasion. Therefore, the fight against tax evasion is effectively achieved by the mandatory use of a modern, integrated system of traceability and digital verification for the identification of tobacco products and their complete traceability throughout the supply chain, using a encrypted code and a new type of characterised security tape, which will bear a unique, invisible encrypted code. The loss of revenue from films per year - and I have the data from the respective link between tobacco sales - amounts to EUR 300 million, counterfeited, forged or not declared in the films on cigarettes. You are therefore asking, Mr Minister: What is the legislative initiative announced before the elections to suppress smuggling and combat tax evasion in tobacco products? Has a new legislative initiative been launched to take effective measures with compulsory use of a traceability and digital verification to combat tax evasion that will generate direct revenue? Is it planned to take other measures in this direction? Finally, do you intend to take measures to protect the social role of the pavilion for the existing beneficiaries? Are you considering the award of administrative supervision to the regions of their operating conditions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u101	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Papoutsis, the question you have put to us is the possibility of opening up the issue of tobacco smuggling, an issue which has unfortunately not dealt with a portion of the media in these days, because they have preferred to hide the super gun taken by the Ministry of Finance, the self-propelled scanner behind the evidence and various other things. I come to the essence of your question. I'll submit the three documents from the Ministry of Finance, from the Ministry of Justice and from the Ministry of Interior, which say in detail all the evidence, so as not to waste any time. I would like to say briefly that, as our tax system and mechanisms are structured right now, every time we increase taxation on tobacco products, what we see is that, instead of taking more taxes, we lose taxes even from those we have. Currently about one in four or five packages of cigarettes sold in Greece is smuggling. The figures are important, not only for public revenue but also for the health of the citizens, because many of the cigarettes circulating are not just smuggling, i.e. without the corresponding tax, but they are the so-called "munion", that is to say, health and lungs in the world. On the subject of the bill, we already have an original piece of legislation that has been made by Mr Nicoludis, which has been an important step in improving the institutional framework for tobacco products. This important step is in the process of processing and a new piece of legislation will soon be tabled, which will have to incorporate the Community framework that will apply from 2016. So we are together with the Ministry of Justice in the final drafting of this plan, so that we can move on to the new tools on these issues. With this bill, we will be able to go to the traceability systems for cigarettes, tobacco products in general, but also other products, such as alcoholic beverages, to incorporate Directive 40/2014, which should be incorporated by 20 May into our national law and to establish a traceability system, which for cigarettes and tobacco we are obliged to establish by May 2019 and for other products by May 2024. There are specific commitments there too. The technical specifications that this system will have to be compatible with the technical specifications of the European Union, so that at European and pan-Hellenic level we can do control and cooperate with other services in this area. As you can see - and I am going to say in my dentext of self-propelled scanners - we are moving towards a number of measures to strengthen the institutional framework and mechanisms so that, like all other European countries, we can decisively hit the smuggling of tobacco products.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. I've got the evidence, and I'll testify it too. You are absolutely right to say that when you try to increase tobacco prices and expect revenues, it is all down and the table shows them. You don't collect what you're waiting for. It's the wrong tactic and I'll testify for the record for whoever's interested. At the same time, it is also a reduction in revenues and revenues, because there is also a reduction in turnover and accessibility in the kiosks. There are thousands of families living from this job and we should have that in our minds too. In recent years five thousand kiosks and a hundred and fifty thousand tobacco distribution companies have closed down because of this practice, unjustly increased taxes and a reduction in turnover. I want your attention, Minister, on a very sensitive matter. I shall table the protocols to the World Health Organisation Convention in relation to what we say about tobacco, traceability, etc. There are some sensitive points and I would like to highlight them. The most sensitive point of all is this and if you allow me, I shall read it. The Framework Convention on the World Health Organisation - I shall submit the relevant articles - of 2003 and on the control of tobacco ratified by n. 3420/2005 and the guidelines for its implementation, as well as in accordance with the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, etc., Article 5, etc., prohibits any involvement of the tobacco industry in the establishment and implementation of a labelling and traceability system. Here, because I read this - I liked scanner and donation too much - to be careful whether we do not fall within the law and the directive prohibiting the use of machinery and a monitoring system by the tobacco industry rather than an independent authority. This is an issue that we should see, because if we illegally, I suspect that there will also be a fine. I have nothing more to say. I will put forward the relevant articles, which both the House and the Ministry and all of us must be informed of the effects on health and the way in which we, as Greece, now have to implement, as the Minister rightly said on the dates that he gave, the legislation, put it into practice and follow the protocols. Here, I would like to inform the House that on Monday I have a similar question to the Minister for Health, because there is the cost in the health system of illegal tobacco, which the State cannot monitor, which is huge and unreasonable. It is EUR 2 to 3 billion the cost within the last three years of the effects on health of tobacco and not only from legal tobacco, but also illegal tobacco, which is of unprecedented quality and we cannot monitor where it comes from, but unfortunately it ends up with the lungs and homes of the Greek families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Alexiadis, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u106	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u107	You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u108	On the occasion of dentistry, I wanted to highlight the issue of the scanner you said. First of all, we took it completely legally through all the procedures provided for by the acceptance of a donation from the Ministry of Finance. It is important at a time when other companies are attempting to deduct revenue from the State through tax evasion and smuggling, to come a large company, "PAPASTRATO" and give the Greek State an important control tool worth 2 million euros. We have praised this and said it once again. With this tool we will now be able to control about eighty trucks an hour across our road, in ports and in other facilities. It is an important control tool, as I said. It's important that the company did it a donation and has nothing to do with it from now on. That is, software, use and everything else is of the Ministry of Finance and they are not related to the company, in the sense of the traceability system that, as you quite rightly said, stipulates. So we will now be able to control lorries and containers at the port of Piraeus, either in other ports or in national routes, which are currently in control in a traditional way, which does not honour the tax and customs administration in Greece. They have no responsibility, of course, for this. We are responsible for the fact that we have not been able to strengthen them for so many years. The aim of the Ministry of Finance is to strengthen the mechanism with other self-propelled scanners, because one is not enough. Nevertheless, the design runs in 2016 and we think it will be completed, as well as installing a stable scanner at the entrance gates of the country, at the major customs offices, at the ports, because this government has decided to fight with smuggling, tax evasion and corruption and will stop us nothing in this area. At the same time, when others do not want to go through what is happening even in fine letters - not all, but some media - I want to inform the Greek people about what is going on in this matter. As far as the issue of the kiosks you said, and I did not mention in my first speech, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. It is, in fact, a side-effect of all this history and, unfortunately, it must teach our tax system what has been done. The price of cigarettes has increased to theoretically get more taxes, but we have received fewer taxes than cigarettes, we have led people to unemployment, and we have shut down businesses, not only in the kiosks, but across the whole network and at all levels of tobacco. I think we need to learn from this and we need to learn from policies that, while starting with another goal, eventually result in catastrophic results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy MP, Mr. Georgia Martinou, is requesting a short-day absence abroad from 11-12-2015 to 23-12-2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u110	The House approved the requested permission. The sixth under number 272/8-12-2015 top-level question by MP B' Athens, Georgios Amyras, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the position of the Ministry for the PPC's request for free emission allowances for lignite generation will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and deleted. Also, the seventh under number 273/8-12-2015 top-level question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health, on the need for the immediate acquisition of a Linear Accelerator at the Department of Radiotherapy of the University General Hospital of Larissa, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted. We will discuss the first with number 439/29-10-2015 - very old - question and application for the submission of documents by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the inclusion in the regulation of the act of legislative content of 27-3-2015 of debtors with arrears of more than EUR 1 million. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Madam President. As you have rightly pointed out, the question and the request for documents we have addressed to the Minister of Finance, as we have been trying for ten months with successive parliamentary interventions - we have already tabled three questions - to find out what was the real objective of the legislative act that was adopted on 27 March, which changed Article 1 of the just adopted a few days ago, on 20 March, the law on the hundred instalments and incorporated those who owed more than a million people, which had not been made either by our 2014 law, nor by the law that we voted on, which was proposed by the Ministry of Finance and which gave fines and increases to n. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since then we have been trying to find out who this approach has been, since, as you can see, the time the House was discussing has not come for this regulation, and it has come round with this obscure legislative procedure. As I said earlier, we have asked three questions and we haven't got one. When she handed over to Mr Alexiadis on 20 July, she said in her speech that they made use of this provision of more than two hundred fifty grandparents. The only answer the Treasury has given so far by Mr Alexiadis is that a chapter of seven hundred sixty million has been arranged and eighty-eighty-eight million debts have been deleted. You realise that this is a very large amount, especially when it comes to fines and increases for large tax-growers. And that can be compared to the money that we cut off from the oil subsidies to poor people, with the money we remove from supplementary pensions, with the money we remove from the CSCE. So we expect the Minister to tell us today if he is able to give us names. And since so far, in the parliamentary debate which has taken place here on the occasion of the debate on bills, tax secrets have been invoked, I would like to remind the Minister that with the n 2943/2011 and with POL. 1185 that Mr Venizelos has signed is allowed to make available to the Treasury the names of the grandparents who owe more than a hundred and fifty thousand. We are therefore waiting today, Mr Alexiadis, for you to tell us the truth. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u112	Mr Alexiadis, are the documents you have submitted now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u113	I have tabled the documents to which I referred in the previous question and now I shall answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u114	You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u115	I am new to parliamentary duties and I am respectful to try to respond to them, but sometimes I am surprised to see a platoon and a process that does not help the real political dialogue. First of all, Mr Koutsoukos, because Mr Kegeroglu who has signed the question is not here to hear the answer too, you say that the questions are unanswered. Of course you said below in your speech that we answered questions. What's the reality? We had to respond by 20 November, we had the previous bill and we replied after three working days. That's all it is to understand the world. We are doing a whole thing because we have been late for three working days to respond to the formality. You are absolutely right, the Ministry of Finance replied in time and had to respond in time to this issue. But I'm explaining why this story happened. But you forget something and I expected you to mention it in your speech. From the first day I came to Parliament, from mid-July, what I keep hearing is: "Get us information on the hundred doses, bring us information on the hundred doses". I answer: "The evidence will come. Bring us an answer to the Lagard list and throw the ball in the platform, nobody answers anything about it. That remains a question. But I, for what you ask in the Minutes of the House, brought the evidence to the bill and tabled the table. What you are asking here today has been tabled in the Minutes of the House on a table and I will put it again today. I am sorry that you have insisted on this because it is clear that more than one million has joined, 0.03%. In nine hundred thirty - seven thousand seven hundred six cases that have joined the n. 4321- I'll testify the plate -270 is over a million. That's what he's joined in. You complain about this, and I understand why you are protesting. You don't want the hundred doses for certain reasons, but I told you next time that although 0.03% has been added, we have received 20% of the money that we went from these debts, more than a million. And the table shows that chapter 756 million has been included and chapter 225 million has been collected. Specific numbers. You may disagree about this, but we in 2015 covered adequate public needs in this way. I shall be tabling one document and the other one that shows exactly what has been done. In relation to your first question, as to who these debtors are, you know very well from your term of office in the Ministry of Finance that we cannot in the institutional framework that we currently have to give names of the great debtors. Of course, we must change this institutional framework and at some point we must look at the issues of confidentiality - and fortunately we are taking steps in the areas of tax evasion and the huge ones - but with the existing institutional framework we cannot give this information. We'll have problems with justice. I repeat, therefore, that your question as a result of the bill has been formally answered by three working days and has actually been answered in the bill with the information I have submitted and I hope Parliament will not be involved in this matter again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Kutsuko, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Madam President. You can be sure, Minister, that Parliament will deal more often with each other until the truth shines. Because it turns out and I'm sorry to say that you have nothing to do with the truth. We've tabled three questions. The first was on 31-3-2015, the second on 23-7-2012 and the other on 21-10-2015. And you have not answered the first two at all, and in the last time you said that you have responded late, you are not telling the truth, you are not answering what we are asking you. Also, you are not telling the truth when you say that we did not want the 100 doses. Unfortunately, this lie has been said by the Prime Minister. I would remind you that we voted for Mr von Wogau's report. For the hundred doses that you voted against. I would also remind you that we voted for Mr von Wogau's report. 4321/2015 that you brought to the House. Stop lying and answer the substance. So we're telling you that you've been conducting a whole process. The law was passed in Parliament, the SYRIZA MPs voted enthusiastically and you trapped them and us, bringing an act of legislative content that changed the most important article of the law to put in some you wanted and we don't know who they are. We're trying to find out that. We'll oblige you and we'll find out. Because, Mr Alexiadis, you have said repeatedly - you have said this today - that existing legislation does not allow names to be made public. So you're Deputy Minister of Finance. Open the website of your Ministry and enter into the relevant table, where on the basis of the law I told you earlier and the circular of Mr. Venizelos, the names of the grandparents, those who owe more than 150,000 euros, natural and legal persons have been made public. Here's a copy of the first page of these situations! I have to say to you, because it seems that you are not watching or are not telling you well, that these are some thousand, about five thousand, to natural persons, with debts of more than two million and to legal persons there are seven thousand, those with debts of more than one million are three thousand eight hundred. So there is the law passed by the Greek Parliament, which we brought. There is the relevant circular, which has been implemented. You could update these situations and draw conclusions about who they were before that date - on 27-3-2015 - who you brought the arrangement and who they are next, if you are ashamed to tell us! And I want you to know that during the debate here in the House, many cases have been mentioned, and the newspapers on specific businessmen, systematic tax collectors, where neither you nor I can go to have fun, for presidents and UAEs, etc. Look at the lists, it's inside! So who are you kidding? So you have a feasibility, Minister. And I believe that you personally have no reason to cover up this method. Mr. Drasakis told us here in the House that the "first time left" will bring the names to the parliament. Mr. Tsipras said yesterday in the interview that he is not a "Golden Guide". Then where can we go find out the truth? "1880" will we finally go? Here in the House, we claim the evidence to come. There is the legislative framework and to the extent that you do not carry out your duties you are illegal and we will oblige you in the parliamentary ways that we have to do so. Because, Mr Alexiadis, you cannot invoke a moral advantage that you have lost. And I repeat, you too have personal responsibility. You have no reason to cover up this approach that has been made to serve some surnames, well - known big ones. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u118	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Madam President. I am opposed to the intensity and content of your attack and personal and political content. I did not expect it from you, but we are learning a lot in this life and in this Chamber. However, as far as the substance of your complaints is concerned, you forget to answer a basic question, to which I am coming back. And I will come back whenever Members who supported a previous regime of opacity, interoperable and other sick situations come here and move our fingers. I'm asking you again why you forgot. I said it again before: In 2010, 2011 and 2012, where was the Lagard list? And I'll put it every time I'm in here, so you can put yourself here sometime, because you've forgotten it today. We will have a Commission and a plenary next week. And because you know things and people in the Treasury, you finally answer: Where was the Lagard list for three years? Simple question. You accused me of not telling the truth, as you accused me of other things. So, to help our memory a little. Has the extension of the television advertising tax which helped the media, which curiously supported your Government and fought SYRIZA for so many years? Are you going to put a question on this? Will you ask a question about who made the proposal to make this extension and start disciplinary proceedings by the Ministry of Finance and to come here before Parliament, to those who have political responsibility? Or do we keep throwing the ball at the platform and changing the conversation? I do not understand, do you blame the SYRIZA - ANEL Government for giving all this year's struggle for parliamentary procedures, for which we are not always happy, for which we are forced to be, when you have received a postgraduate and doctorate in these procedures? Have you forgotten what you've been doing for so many years? You were here in the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u120	Will you tell us about the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u121	What have you been through with legislative acts, have you forgotten?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u122	Will you tell us about the question? You're not opposition, we're asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u123	For the question I answered. Whatever evidence you've requested from the Treasury and above, we've given it to you. The institutional framework does not allow it. Once there is an institutional framework, we will do so. You've come to blame us for everything. You even accused us of heating oil. Let me remind you - why you have probably forgotten - that it is a provision that you also voted on, on 14 August, and you are now coming, and a number of other members, to blame us on why we are implementing what has been voted on here two hundred and twenty-two Members? So there is a limit to politics, not personal hypocrisy. There's a limit to populism. Let's not cross that line.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u124	Who are you covering, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u125	Decide what you want to do and finally submit your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u126	Our proposal is...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u127	I, Mr. Kutsuko, neither politically nor personally cover anyone. You tell us politically and not personally who you have covered so many years by having the Lagard list in drawers by voting for extensions of the television advertising tax that favoured specific media in particular? You certainly don't cover SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u128	The third under number 267-12-2015 topical question from the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of Health, on "the Thrace Muslims premium in health notices of the Ministry of Health", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister responsible and deleted. The sixth question under number 280/8-12-2015 is a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the activation of an internal control unit of the Ministry of Health. It will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We will have a short break before we can get on the agenda. I hope that all colleagues are close and watching the development of television. I would ask them to come in to begin the debate on the question tabled by twenty Members of the New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The Question No 1/1/2-11-2015 of the New Democracy MPs will be discussed. Emmanuel Konsola, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Charalambou Athanasios, Panagiotis Mitaraki, Konstantinos Tasou, Stavros Kalafatis, Mavroudi Voridis, Anastasios Publicskalis, Vassilios Kikilia, Georgiou Koutsakou, Sophia Vultesis, Eleni Rati, Athanasios Kavvada, Georgios Vlachos, Ioannis Kefantou, Christos Dimas, Georgiou Stylou, Anna Karamanlis, Theodorou Fortsakis and Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Ministers for Internal and Administrative Reconstruction and Foreign Affairs and the Committee responsible for Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, on the immediate treatment of the migration-refuge problem. The honourable Members will be given the floor first. On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction will take the floor, Mr Mousalas, and then the parliamentary representatives will follow. Mr Consolas has the floor for ten minutes, because he is the first Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the debate in this House is of great interest, since it has been preceded by a timely question to the Prime Minister by colleagues and so we have heard his views. I am pleased that the Minister, who really has shown great interest in the immigration programme at the moment, is here, and I am glad that the President-in-Office also had the experience of immigration in the past period. However, let me start this debate on the position of the Prime Minister. At the meeting in Maximos, Mr. Tsipras - Mr. Kamaeros was also there - he did not even have the kindness to call the Members of the islands as a whole, but chose to call only the Members of the ruling party. That is the first point and I have to put it before you. We such customs in the New Democracy had not lived. We didn't show them because we didn't believe them. We believed in dialogue and the participation of all those who are struggling for the issues of the border and, in particular, immigration. But I'm standing in a second report by Mr. Tsipras. He referred to the fact that he called the metropolitans - I will not dwell on the clergy, which I have unlimited respect for, and I do not want to comment on their position at the meeting in Maximos - and self-government. In fact, he said that there was consensus on the government's decisions by government. Allow me, Madam President, to present to the Minutes the memorandum from the Municipality of Kos and the Mayor of Kos, which he submitted to Maximos at this meeting. It also took place in public in this memorandum from the municipality of Kos, which analyses all the issues of immigration policy, the government's responsibilities, the weaknesses of this political expression especially at this time. So I'm not commenting on it today - I respect the Prime Minister - nothing more. He's an undisputed witness of what happened in Maximos. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] At the same time, let me convey a picture from Kos. At this time when the debate is taking place at the National Representation, ladies and gentlemen, in Linopotis, in Kos, mentioned by the Prime Minister, there is a strong protest, with universal participation from the citizens of Kos. This is an urban area where he tried to become the residence centre. I would ask the Minister then to tell us what the Prime Minister means under the term'residence centre'. Does this have to do with the safe passage center? Does this have to do with the processing center? What does the Prime Minister mean? How long will the immigrants stay there? In any case, the residence centres, to which the Prime Minister referred, are carried out in an urban area and the first work was attempted with the assistance of the army. If that's possible! Gentlemen of the government, let the army go away from purpose. And I'm glad the army in Kos said it didn't take part in such proceedings. The army is for another job. There are bodies of the ordered state to implement the act of law or the decisions of the government. In any case, after this introduction, I am sincerely glad that the government has finally taken the initiative to discuss matters at the National Representation. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that since March, I, Mrs Bakoyannis and other colleagues have tabled a topical question, and the previous leadership has not had the pleasure of discussing this issue in this House. Even late, he comes to debate today after three postponements. We had the postponement of March, July and now, from 2 November, the Minister is here to discuss these issues. You know, the building blocks of government policy dealing with immigration issues seem to be moving between ideas, improvisations and contempt, despite the Minister's intentions. I must point out here that in a meeting in Kos, in the presence of Mr Avramopoulos and the Vice-President of the European Council, what the previous government has not done was in three days by Mr Mousalas as Minister of State. It is not wrong to recognise this when it is in public debate. From there on, however, I need to remind you of a few problems that the government has made on Greek territory. He still didn't explain why he shut down the Ammondaleza. The center of Athens was cleaned up. Unfortunately, we have led immigrants to'swamp' in Attica. I would also like to remind you of the announcements by government actors that immigrants would be provided with travel documents to move to Europe. We didn't say that, you said it. These announcements have unfortunately worked as a prisoner, as the popular rupture says and have turned Greece into a attraction pole. I would also like to remind you of the threats to European countries unleashed by the Minister of National Defence, Mr Kammenos, the President of the ANLEs, that we will send immigrants to Europe's territory. And he did. He sent indiscriminately. I would also like to remind you of your inefficiency to absorb European funds. You have also seen it in Kos, Minister. There was no action plan for eight months. In addition, no managing authority has been established for eight months. I would also like to remind you of the fundamental lack of an operational plan in the Aegean islands, which raised a great and disproportionate burden in the summer. Ask for the islands Mr Athanasios, Mr Santorinios, Mr Cameroon, any of my colleagues. I would also like to remind you of the Prime Minister's statement that there are no sea borders. You know, all of us understand what the term 'borders' means, especially the ones who live the pulse of the border. Each of us understands how the government guarded the sea borders in the previous period. This is how the Aegean Sea region has turned into a paradise of slave traders and circuits that act literally undisturbed. Of course, it's done, it's done and it's done. But there must be protection and prevention. This must be a precondition and a message to Europe, but above all to the traffickers' circuits. We have not answered why there is not so much flow in Italy as there is in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government has tried to use the refugee, possibly in order to achieve other issues that it has not been able to achieve in the past, or has tried to become a centre of gravity in displacement of problems and decisions in relation to the reforms that have unfortunately shifted for later. He has made promises for the country - and we must say this from this Step - as it is, for example, the remaining fifty thousand immigrants, without telling us what this figure will be managed for, and why this particular commitment was made, when the principle of proportionality was not respected and when there was no proportional distribution of refugees in all European countries. Other countries have announced a much smaller number of refugees and, indeed, some other countries have announced a minimum number of refugees in the biennial region. Is there a framework for proportional distribution in Europe? Have we talked about this? Greece lives in special circumstances. That should be a given for our negotiation. Also, according to population characteristics, it should have been otherwise the relationship and the ratio agreed by the government. Have we considered how many refugees and immigrants it is possible for our country to host? You know, there's another serious parameter. The Government's intention to make the refugee and negotiating ground for relaxing the terms of the memorandum seems to have undermined our firm position that immigration is a European problem and requires a European solution. It is clear from my report that there are two directions to the government in how the problem is dealt with. There are some who, in the name of a cloudy and outdated internationalism, and those who have nothing to do with reality, turn migration from European to Greek. Inertia, inconsistencies, inability to interpret the consequences of other countries also contribute to this. You see that walls are erected everywhere. What do we do about it? Have we interpreted this data? We don't care. You don't care, gentlemen of the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you must know that a number of multinational companies in Greece, who had chosen our country as a transit centre for transporting their products to Europe, have now been compromised by efforts by the previous government. This is due to the fact that train tracks have been closed for weeks. The loss of revenue was EUR 1.2 million until a few days ago. I know and you know very well what we mean by that. For twenty days you have tolerated the occupation on rail lines and did not deal with it in line with other policies in Europe. When there is a sea borders incapable of guarding, when the main Prime Minister himself disputes the existence of sea borders and no control in the Aegean, you realise that there are forces in the European Union that are to the detriment of the country's sovereign rights to pursue such policies. Has the Prime Minister raised at the summit on 25 October the question of Turkey's refusal to implement the readmission agreement? We don't know that. We're not sure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the end, because time is relentless, with the hotspots. Unless, Madam President, you give me some time from my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u132	You want your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u133	If you want me to exhaust the protology with a slight tolerance, because I want to have a second. Give me two minutes more prototype, and I'll be done. SYRIZA has ideas. You know, it would be very useful if the government partners from the ANELs, like Mrs Kouturas, were here. I'm glad Mr. Santorinios is here. However, Mrs Kundura expressed the view in the London International Report that if there are hotspots on the islands, it would be disastrous for the country. Allow me very briefly to submit a few documents in the Minutes. I will submit a letter to Mrs Koundura, which means establishing temporary detention centres or detention centres, said by the Prime Minister. You know, you say about hotspots of thousands of people. Who are you mocking, gentlemen of the government? In Kos, Minister, you know that a thousand people arrived every day in the summer. I would also remind you that, according to the reports by the tourist players in the region, we had thousands of cancellations overnight in the summer and now the prerogatives are minimal. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I must also tell you that we have returns from the border of refugees to the north of our country. In fact, in the past few days, reports reported returning immigrants to Mytilini and Kos again, where they were identified. So here, then, something else is going on. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Refugees remain locked in the country. We want to make it clear that last year's experiment showed that not only twenty-four hours or forty-eight hours, as the Prime Minister said, remain but for weeks whole. You know about their inability to move to the mainland by boat. So the issues we put here today are: Decision on the proportional distribution of refugees at European level in all European Union countries. It must be cleared up by the government if it has been discussed and how a specific framework has been established. Secondly, if there is any direct establishment of a framework for the expulsion and relaunching of illegal immigrants - and we are not talking about refugees - those who do not fall under the protection of the refugees of a European mechanism, because, as I have said, it seems from the relevant document that I have tabled in the Minutes, there is now a return and I am afraid that there will be the arrest of thousands of illegal immigrants. The third question we raise is whether the creation of centres for recording and resettlement and resettlement in third countries in relation to Turkey has been discussed and cleared up. Fourthly, I would like to make it clear, Mr Minister, if there is - as you have announced - the strengthening of the Port Corps and the Police in the region, and if you intend to establish - as provided for by the Presidential Decree - the border guard centre in Kos, Leros and Rhodes. And also, what agreement has been reached with FRONTEX, since we have seen in the public eye that FRONTEX is moving from Piraeus to Naples, Italy? And in this respect, what is FRONTEX's position and role, in cooperation with the Greek authorities lately, which seems to me to be a pleasure to the government understands - even late, eight months later - that it is a precondition for European borders and European borders to assist with the Greek authorities? Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u134	You have covered your dentistry, Mr. Consola. Mr. Cryazides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u135	No, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u136	It's five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u137	We're friends, you'll give me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u138	Do you want your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u139	If I can't make it, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has a specific heading. It is the morning of Prime Minister "Obviously, we were surprised at the first time". It is next, ladies and gentlemen, when one is improvising - unfortunately - to be surprised. But is that the way things are? But that is not the case, because since March we have been trying to discuss what we are discussing here today. March, April, August. Unfortunately, you did not come for any debate or answer any questions and questions on the part of my colleagues were and have been tabled. To prove that I am tabling the relevant questions in which we unfortunately did not receive any reply, Madam President, and you too were responsible for this big issue. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition to the refugees, a large number of economic migrants, i.e. non-justifiable foreigners, who are evolving into a rough bomb for our homeland and society, are wrong, which is impossible or does not want the SYRIZA Government to understand, which has been declaring a general invitation since the beginning of this year, open borders, which was unfortunately taken out of the country as "opening and waiting for you". The lack of effective actions and policies for this particular category of migrants is now apparent, as this is a real problem, which unfortunately does not seem to be worrying about the relevant ministries at all. And I would like to explain that the New Democracy Government has made a genuine and coordinated effort to ensure that there is effective control and control of illegally entering the country of third-country nationals, a policy which is judged - in comparison to the present chaos - at least successful. In other words, not only did it not implement open borders policies, which, unfortunately, directly or indirectly - for our country - have been adopted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but at every opportunity it has sent a message. Greece is not a clear vine, it has rules and laws. And how did he do that? Through its strict policy in this area. I am referring here, for example, to the systematic requests for data audits made by the Greek Police in the framework of the "XENIOS DIAS" operation, the mass deportation of deportations and the expulsion of unjustified persons, the attempt to record migrants in general and, in particular, the faithful implementation of European policies in the field of illegal economic migrants. Immediate registration, identification and repatriation of foreigners whose presence was not tolerated by the Greek and European legal systems. To this end, it established and operated detention and hosting centres for foreigners from whom a large number departed for repatriation, in cooperation with the countries of origin and origin. That was, Ministers, the policy imposed not only on the rationale but also on the Greek legislation. I am referring to No 3907/2011, an adaptation to a European directive. This law, which was the product of the transposition of the abovementioned Directive 2008/15, provides in Article 13 that ‘third-country nationals arrested to enter the country shall be directly led, under the responsibility of the authority which carried out the arrest at the centre or unit of first reception at the limits of the local authority of which they were arrested. For the purposes of verification and other first-hand procedures, the persons subject to them shall be subject to a restriction of their freedom.’ In other words, these are the centres you have closed down. In accordance with Article 21, ‘in the event of a request for a residence permit or for a renewal of a residence permit, as well as in the event of the withdrawal of an existing residence permit, the competent authority shall adopt a return decision in the country of the national’. The procedure laid down in Article 23 followed, during which the competent police authorities took all necessary steps to implement return decisions. And I ask, Mr. Ministers. What of these provisions of the existing legislation has the SYRIZA Government to date implemented? Why has he effectively abolished the policy implemented by the previous government and the co-legislative Ministries of Internal and Public Order? Why should our homeland, in an unprecedented left-wing policy, remain a prey to amateurism and improvisation, as a result of which unfortunately the country is drowned by immigrants? Mr President, the situation has run out of control. From the government's policy, our country is at risk - in view of the reintroduction of the Dublin II Treaty, which ends at the end of the year - to become an endless storeroom of souls. It is now mentioned in international instruments that three hundred seventy thousand are uncharted. Will they return to our country if they came in from here, Minister? The suspension of the Dublin II Treaty ends at the end of the year. And, of course, there is the threat. We were also given the proposal of 1 December by the Council of Europe - I am tabling it - where the bell hit us for any exit if we did not implement the seventeen points that we agreed in October. [[At this point the Member, Mr Kyriazidis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The questions, Mr Ministers, are crucial and society requires it to be officially informed by the Government and at the same time calls for seriousness and national strategy. Greece was and remains a hospitable and democratic country. However, if this is the case, the conclusion and attribute can turn our country into an endless panoramic of human souls - as we are seeing recently in closed centres - we will have to avoid it at all costs. We do not even offer the basics for what economic migrants are experiencing, which we have "suckled" them on concrete lands. There's chaos. And, unfortunately, you will allow me, Minister, to mention - although the valuable effort you are making is acknowledged - that this chaos has to do with the chaos of SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too. Mr Athanasios has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that migration and refugee is one of the most important and most complex problems facing our country and the European Union, and it is not an exaggeration to say that Europe's future and cohesion depend on their successful response. But it is also an issue for the ideologicals to develop their views, ignoring the facts, the facts and the consequences of their choices. I would like to make a clarification here, because there is a great deal of confusion in the world. What is different - especially with regard to the inhabitants of our islands - the refugee from the illegal immigrants? Refugees, ladies and gentlemen, are those who leave their country, because there are armed conflicts, to save their lives or physical integrity, or because they are persecuted because of their beliefs, the color of their skin, ethnic origin, ethnic origin, religion, etc., while immigrants are those who leave their country because they are looking for a better way of life in other countries. Both categories are used by poachers, with the same routes to Europe. In order to qualify for refugee status, however, a refugee must first apply for asylum and, if granted, is deemed to be a refugee. Otherwise anyone who enters our country would be regarded as a refugee and has nothing to do with the process of law and international conventions. Asylum ensures health care, legal work and, of course, for every six months, other European Union countries will be able to visit. That's to keep it from confusing. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Now, as far as our issue is concerned, the government is giving up eleven months of governance. It has been called upon to deal with immigration and an outbreak of the refugee issue. I remind you what we've experienced these 11 months. Initially addressing the immigrant problem, based on extreme statements on migrants that are'moved' and a minimum substance. Soon we had the collapse of our maritime borders, which the Prime Minister has questioned in the run-up to the election. The intensification of the refugee issue was a perfect pretext for both issues, namely refugee and immigration, to be dealt with as one. I made the distinction above. Then came the dissolution of the islands that received the waves of immigrants and refugees. Lesvos, Kos and other Aegean islands were left alone to deal with this great problem, without having the potential for effective response. As a consequence we lived in the summer, first of all on my island, Lesvos, unprecedented situations that we all remember. Economic activity and tourism 'freezed', and the atmosphere and non-determination of the government strengthened the forces that promote racism and xenophobia, as shown by the elections. Along with the refugees, they opened the border for all illegal immigrants. That's where the government moved a little sloppy, I'd say, and allow me the expression. He considered that immigrants would leave Greece with the refugees, until Skopje closed the border and illegal immigrants were trapped in Idomen. There, they first let them understand the rail line that crosses the border, "frozen" so the economic activity at the port of Piraeus and causing enormous damage to our country, both to the economy and its prestige. And after the knot arrived at the comb, the government removed immigrants in a hurry and immediately then brought them back to Athens, creating fear of returning the center of Athens in the 2010-2012 era. In the intervening period we lived Turkey's diplomatic walk on the issue of refugees and Pakistan's refusal to accept their own nationals. And not to forget, of course, the shamefulness, I would say, for all of us, parasiology about getting out of the Schengen Treaty, which, thankfully for the moment, has been cut. What, of course, was the informal governmental leaks in the first few days, which, instead of actually denying the Cassandras, were saying to us: 'What happened, that is, if we leave the Schengen Agreement? We are not losing anything." Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, in these eleven months you have already failed to deal with immigration and the refugee question. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Questions remain relentless. Will you stop putting in the same bag - I will take a minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude - migration and refugee in order to justify your failure, but also open borders policy? Will you develop separate and distinct policies on each issue? What are you going to do to work the hotspots in Turkey and not in Greece to prevent our islands from falling apart any further? How will Turkey be forced to exercise more effective control over its shores, preventing the ship from being sailed by slaves? What measures will you take to restore the damage that has been done to our islands? As long as I can tell you that in the village of Moria of Lesvos, the olive groves have been destroyed. You will see, Minister, that because of time, they have been turned, they have been cut and they have been burnt to the ground. On this point I have to agree with Mr Consola that, in fact, on your day - and as Minister of State and now - you have a sensitivity and you are showing greater interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u142	Canteens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u143	Canteens and cafes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u144	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u145	Canteens and cafes. They're all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u146	Oh, well, let go of that. Don't tell me that, that the cafeterias, etc. It's funny. I'll take you to Moria, at my expense, to see the situation. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u147	We've already gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u148	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u149	I would also like to ask a few questions, Mr Minister, about non-governmental organisations, questions that the Northern Aegean Region has raised to you as well. Do you know how many NGOs are active in the Aegean and how many are their members? It's about eighty-one. Who coordinates their action? Who attests their scientific training and suitability for the services they provide? If we remove the "Doctors of the World", which are known, there are many others who claim to be NGOs with medical activity. The Greek Government participates in their entire activity and, if so, how? Who gives and how can they be licensed and financed? Is there any control, approval, planning? They're controlled by the state? Are they the precursor of hospitality structures, as it sounds very often? The costs incurred by the Municipality of Mytilini - which are huge - but also the region, have been covered? Do you know the cancellations of flights that we had in Mytilini this year and what will we have in 2016? Hoteliers and agents, in their study, talk over 30% of Germany, England, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, Denmark. I'll testify all the evidence. Eight cruise approaches were cancelled for at least six thousand passengers. Why did the Prime Minister accept the setting up and operation of hot spots on the islands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Athanasios, I'm sorry to interrupt you. You've already exhausted your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u151	It's basically what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u152	Please, be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u153	I'll take a minute from Mr. Cryazides' speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u154	There's no more time. Evaporate both your protology and your dentextology. Although you asked me for a minute, I gave you the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u155	Good, last question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u156	You're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u157	You're right, Mr. President. One final question for the Minister to answer. Why did the Prime Minister accept the establishment and operation of hotspots on the islands of the eastern Aegean, while Turkey refused? What is the legal framework under which Greek hotspots will operate? What is the institutional framework governing their operation and what are their rules of operation? Who runs them? Moria and Kara Pepes, Minister, in Lesvos, promised to operate permanently today? Are the constructions within Moria and Kara Pepe legal? Has environmental and urban legislation been complied with? Who made the construction? Can you produce the relevant documents? Now, with regard to what the Prime Minister said this morning, namely that societies are not reacting, I would like to present the practical resolution of the People's Assembly of the Coordination Committee of Professionals, etc., of Lesvos, which unanimously condemn the establishment of hosting centres. Of course, I can tell you that those who have left because they have not been able to go to Europe, come back after the borders have been closed, because their goal is after they have destroyed their papers, which have already been received, travel documents, supposedly presented as refugees from countries where the war is like Afghanistan and Syria, so that they can be identified again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u158	Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that Greece is turning into an endless camp and refugee and economic migrants. The outlet swing closes, if it has not been closed, as other European countries take increased measures to protect their own borders. However, the'stick' of the influxes to our country is still wide open, with the humanitarian risk of these people being caught in our country. The numbers are ruthless. Only last Sunday, on St. Nicholas's eve, the Port Authority detected and rescued four hundred and four hundred four foreigners, one day earlier five hundred eight foreigners and, of course, the ones who managed to get out on Greek coasts are not counted. We will all agree that the European Union was ready to face the refugee crisis. But - and this is even more about the National Representation - our country was unprepared and unprepared for what happened in 2015, for the great multiplication of flows. And it's not that the government was unprepared. It followed a rhetoric, an open door policy, and now the refugee flows, the migration flows that found other corridors to reach Northern Europe, have now chosen our country as the best, the safest, the nearest corridor. The government in the end, with its rhetoric, sent not only a clear message to refugees and immigrants. He sent a clear message that took advantage of the slave traders' circuits. Today, apart from refugees from Syria, apart from immigrants from Eastern countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan, the Aegean Sea and immigrants from Africa who used to pass through other corridors pass. As I said before, there is a great risk that these people will be locked in our own country, which currently has neither the economic nor the social opportunity to offer a safe haven. Of course, these influxes have a great impact on our economy. I would like to make a special reference to the recent events at the northern border, to the occupation of the railway line. Our country, in attempting to exploit its comparative advantages, has tried to show that we are the eastward gate to the West for trade. This economic model on which the value of the port of Piraeus and Thessaloniki was based, the value of TRAINOSE, the value of many professions and companies that could create jobs in our country, is questioned and the large foreign companies are now looking to find alternative routes for their goods. Ladies and gentlemen, at diplomatic level we are not currently seeing any initiative to relaunch illegal immigrants entering our country. But you are bound to create hotspots on the islands. But that is not the problem. You have said so far - and I expect you to repeat this - that these are temporary housing areas. I do not know, however, how you ensure that, on the part of the European Union, you have a guarantee that it will absorb all these immigrants who live in our country. Is there a European commitment that all the immigrants who come to our country will continue towards the northern border or these temporary hotspots will eventually begin hosting permanent refugees and immigrants? The problem has become explosive. Local government, local communities expect the government to finance the infrastructure. They expect both parallel and simple things, such as the appointment of coordinators for the islands. Minister, in your recent visit to Chios you said that this is something you intend to do in 2016. Do we have to go through all these weeks, all these months, to set up a coordinator? Now on our islands there are the municipalities, there is the region, there are the NGOs mentioned by Mr Athanasios, all those who are trying to offer and nobody is there to coordinate them. Shouldn't you at least have done that yesterday, if not today? Of course, all of this has an impact on tourism, and that is what the people of tourism say in the islands themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the government's political and diplomatic failures, we must also highlight internal failures, the total absence of state aid in our own territory. And I do not just mention that from an opposition standpoint. If you look at the publications of the local and electronic press, even the government-friendly, you will find dozens of publications highlighting this absence of the state. The burden has fallen in local government, volunteers, church and NGOs. The islanders finally see a failure of the government to deal with the problem that is now in their own homes. I would also like to raise a point about the supervisory role that the state must exercise. All these immigrants who pass through Greek territory - many have no paper - should not somehow be supervised? Can one assure us of the role and real purposes of all the NGOs active on our islands? There are some NGOs doing an amazing job. There are, however, some others that we do not know about, no one is aware of the subject of their action. As we see from press reports, some members of organisations are waiting in the dark for refugees and directing them with bright signals to the point where they can land. How do these people know in advance at the time and the arrival points of the immigrants? No consensual? Accidents await in the dark at five o'clock in the morning at dawn? We arrived at the point where the NGOs announced that there would be a reception station of three and a half thousand people in northern Lesvos, and the regional council did not know it, as the District Minister said to you, Minister. Before I close, I would like to make a special reference to the members of the Port House who responded to five thousand incidents this year, saving tens of thousands of people, a unique number in the world in time. And that was accomplished, because the men and women of the Port Corps and the other security bodies exaggerated themselves. Minister, this situation with the inconsistency of services, the absence of the state machine, throws water into the mill of those who are working various dangerous scenarios for our country. In this situation too, the government must change its strategy. It must now speak with concrete actions rather than, as sometimes happens, in well-known rhetoric, seeking internal enemies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Before giving the floor to the next honourable Member, I would like to make it known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-seven students and students and two educational sessions of the Kypris Messinia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the question we tabled about a month ago has not lost its timeliness I think something is telling us. First of all, it says a lot about the way in which Europe is dealing with the refugee immigration issue as a whole, which the Minister also insinuated in his speech. But it also says, Minister, a lot about the weaknesses of the Greek Government dealing with this top issue. I would say that the most important of these are the problems of most of them, is its inability to distinguish migration from the refugee issue, which is a subset of it, and to draw up two clear, different and to some extent complementary strategies for each of them. Unfortunately, little has been done in this direction. It often addresses the two issues as a single one, simply creating more problems than it is called upon to resolve. Things have, of course, become much worse than the 2 November the question was asked. Of course, the catastrophic event of the terrorist attacks in Paris which have unfortunately turned the migration issue from a humanitarian and economic issue and a security issue for Europe has taken place. This development is, unfortunately, the worst possible. It has triggered other kinds of reflexes to international public opinion and the recent success of the far-right in France certifies this. However, it seems that the government has not yet understood that the country after Paris is internationally judged not only for its ability to rescue or even to provide first aid to children and elderly people who arrive on the coast of Greece. This clearly seems to have passed on a second background at the moment. First of all, at the moment, it is also judged by its ability to curb the flow towards a Europe of the jihadists' roads. I do not know whether it is understood, but whether we want it or not, we have entered the fringe against terrorism. And here is the greatest failure of this government, which recently with unfortunate statements by its ministers, such as Mr Kammenos, erroneously identified the issue of immigration with that of terrorism. The threats to the country's exit from Schengen were only the beginning. And to tell you rawly, Minister, you will remember that perhaps at some point the government has tried to link the refugee issue to the economic problem facing the country. The danger now, unfortunately, is the opposite. If you do not act before developments, the risk to us is precisely the opposite. Europeans should make the refugee issue part of the country's economic problem. In practice, I put forward four points, in the hope that they will be taken into account for a more active immigration policy. Firstly, directly divide your strategy into migration from the refugee issue. War refugees and illegal immigrants use the same streets and trafficker networks to avoid legal entry procedures in Greece. Finally, stop treating all refugees as refugees by sending out the messages that illegal economic immigrants are being treated favourably by Greece. The results of the policy have been seen in the case of Asylum. Huge cost for the economy, incredible suffering for economic migrants, great waste of resources and energy for the Greek state. You must finally send out the right messages, make it clear that illegally entering immigrants cannot be treated as refugees. Our country's obligation to them must be exhausted in providing humanitarian aid and their transfer to pre-repeal centres to return to their home country. The close cooperation here with the International Organisation for Migration on Repatriation is self-evident. Secondly, with regard to the current management of illegal economic migrants, we learn that you are looking for facilities to accommodate them, and even mention has been made of the facilities of the former airport in Greek. The question is what the airport installations will temporarily operate. Host center, hospitality, pre-regions centre? Will it be an open or closed facility? How do you guarantee health conditions when there is no such infrastructure? Who will take over the feeding and the cost of hosting these people? In general, what is your plan, Minister, on this? The third issue is directly linked to the previous one. We have heard the Minister, Mr Xydakis, mentioning the need to activate the agreement between Europe and Turkey on the readmission of migrants. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I will also use part of my dentistry. Without wishing to zero whatever efforts were made, it is clear that the government did not do everything in its power to implement both bilateral and European readmission agreements. I would like, for example, to know whether you are putting pressure on the European Union in the context of the European Union's negotiations with Turkey for its immediate implementation between us of a readmission agreement and whether it will be one of the prerequisites that, if it is not implemented, you will put to Europe in the assessment of the agreed Euro-Turkish summit next summer. Will you expressly press for the creation of hotspots on the Turkish-Syria border in order to make the first identification there? I conclude with the question of the involvement of FRONTEX in the patrols of the Aegean coast. I think that you have not pointed out and indicated, Mr Ministers, as much as Turkey's responsibilities. Now the European Union must do it for us by highlighting the poor control on the coast of the neighbouring country and demanding the activation of the memorandum of cooperation with FRONTEX signed in May 2012 for patrols and on the Turkish coasts. We don't even know if you asked for it at the recent summit. And if not, you can do it now. Finally, close this debate that has been opened by the evil about joint patrols in the Aegean Sea. Mr President-in-Office, I think and hope that the government has realised that there are no magical solutions to the immigration issue anymore. I am pleased to see that you have abandoned some phenomenal ideas, such as the fall of the fence in Evros, which was one of SYRIZA's main positions in the previous period. And it is not just that Greece currently accepts the greatest population pressure from all the other European countries. It is above all that we must finally have the political organisation and infrastructure to manage them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mr. Kalafatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, Minister, I shall begin with four assumptions. Firstly, the refugee issue, as it seems from recent investigations, is on a major subject, on a fundamental issue, close to the issue of unemployment at a pan-European level. Secondly, the numbers are vague. Refugee flows have exceeded six hundred thousand people since the beginning of the year. Third admission. Turkey plays a key role in the development and intensity of the phenomenon, as the basic flows towards Europe pass through its territory. And of course, fourthly, this is certainly a pan-European issue and it is not just a matter for a Member State. In any case, all of these elements I mentioned to you, these assumptions indicate, and how important it is to have a comprehensive planning and implementation of a political plan that is essential in terms of the Greek Government. And I am sorry to say that in the examinations that the Greek Government has so far given it under the basis, both at planning and at the level of execution. We have specific proposals, and I could in fact put myself on the table and say, first of all, that we should establish a monitoring mechanism for the implementation of what Turkey has undertaken to implement. It's something very important. Political support to deal with the refugee - immigration problem is also required, in essence, also from flexible European institutions, funding mechanisms. It is surely still a reinforcement of the power of FRONTEX by staff, which you have in fact recently adopted. And, of course, also the change in the Dublin regulation, which may bring more solutions to the issue. I would, however, really like to focus my speech on the issues of the Greek Government's administration's management failure on specific problems that have arisen. Four are the points I could mention. First of all, I shall refer to your predecessor as well, but the Greek Government is in fact committed to dealing with such a very serious issue in a kind and naive way. And, of course, we had the Prime Minister's confession a moment ago that the Greek Government was surprised, as if it were not possible to see the cosmogenicity that is taking place in the neighbouring countries and that, in fact, this problem would touch Greece. Secondly, it is the inability to address the vital issue concerning the distinction between refugees and immigrants on first grounds and, of course, the discrimination on second count of the illegal - not the irregular - migrants. And it's your phrase. Because there is also a different phrase between you and your predecessor, where we had been corrected a few months ago by my colleague that we need to talk about irregularity, and you are talking about illegal people. In any case, the issue of 'illegal and legal immigrants' is a second distinction and you have virtually failed to implement this issue. I should like to point out in particular two points, not the two that I mentioned as much as the two that I am about to mention now. The question of dealing with the crisis in Idomenis is typical not only of how unprepared it is for the Greek Government to understand the gravity of the situation and deal with such a serious issue, such as the issue of Inomenis but also shows the Government's perception of the development dimension of the issues. In other words, the fact that for twenty days big companies such as 'COSCO', 'HEWLETT PACKARD', 'SONY' - which, if you wish, the Government of New Democracy brought them together - have been deceived through the treatment of the issue on the part of the government - is really showing how you understand the development issue, as well as the fact that there are companies that are actually isolated, trapped, and which have not been able to solve their problems, precisely because of your inertia. And, of course, a big issue - and I close with it and take the time of my dentistry - is the question of understanding, Minister, with the bodies of local government. Today, we have only actually had the positions of certain mayors in southern Athens who were glad to say that there was no front for the Greek Government. Mr Kamines, Mayor of Athens, also expressed his reservations about the agreement between local government and central government a few days ago. In Thessaloniki, too, the Mayor, Mr. Boutaris, and the city council have spoken of some telephone conversations he has made with you. It is clear that there is no concrete implementation plan, it is clear that there is no care and interest on your part in the development of the social and political life of the country, and it is also clear that there is no substantial plan for sincere and effective consultation with the relevant local authorities, in order to have an ad hoc effective response to the phenomenon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. I would like you to allow me to use my dentistry as well. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the big question, I think, which the government needs to answer is if you believe that we have a technical issue that we are discussing and the government's uncertainty stems from some sort of government weakness. That is, if we have agreed, in a few words, at least we with the Radical Left on what objectively the objectives to be pursued are, what policies to tackle the phenomenon are or are not. Because it is here that answers must be given. We have, for example, a clear position. We say that the borders must be effectively guarded and there must be a halt at the border to migratory flows. Question straight. Is that a government target, yes or no? At the same time, the Prime Minister, who I am sure many colleagues are nostalgic, September 2014 at the IGC, said: "The policy of closed borders, the policy of repression, is a policy of deadlock, ineffective and leading Europe to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis." I'm waiting here for an answer. We say again that the policy of halting migration flows and effectively guarding borders is a legitimate policy. And by the way, because they hear something like that in Europe, they come and raise the question of FRONTEX, that is, what? The guarding of our own borders with FRONTEX, because obviously here, in the context of this fine statement by the Prime Minister, there is a reluctance to implement this political objective. Not weakness but reluctance, denial, other politics. So I ask. Is it your goal - yes or no, to make it clear - or do we have open borders? Secondly, it is our political position to distinguish between refugees and illegal immigrants. Here again, I have a specific question. Do you believe that distinction? If you believe her, do you apply her? I need numbers now to convince me. How many people have you judged as illegal immigrants from all those who came? Were they all refugees? Everyone was from Syria? Were they all from Afghanistan? Was it anyone else? The one who was from elsewhere illegally enters the next issue - we say he should be deported. Is that your policy? To convince me, how many have you deported? I want numbers. Have you deported anyone? Next question. We say that the whole question is resolved effectively if readmission agreements are implemented. There is such a readmission agreement with Turkey. He doesn't keep up with her. That's a specific question. Do you want to keep her? You want this deal to be activated? When this nice meeting took place, the pan-European meeting, where the Turks came and said what they were doing well, were congratulated on the 'hot spot', and they took 3 billion for what they are going to do? At that time, did you raise the question of the activation of the agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u166	Did you have it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u167	Because you're asking me and I was sure we're going there, I'm going to tell you there's an extensive report on October 25, 2013, Antony Samaras' statement after the summit in 2013. And Antony Samaras says there: "The waves of illegal immigrants destabilize South Europe directly represent a threat of destabilisation for the whole of Europe." The next issue that Antonis Samaras raises: "The European countries and all the countries concerned must put at the heart of their policy the question of their relocation to the countries from which they came, namely their repatriation". It is not possible for Europe, Antony Samaras says, to offer financial aid to third countries that refuse to sign re-process agreements. Okay? Did we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u168	How many were there?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u169	Did you put it here? We put it in. Watch what I'm saying, and I want an answer there, Mr. Ministers. I say you don't miss, you don't fail your policy. It's not that you missed, it's not that you couldn't, it's not that you're incapable. I say that you have different policies, I say that you do not have European policies and that that is why you leave the country unarmed and defenceless in migratory flows and also expose the country to Europe, creating enormous risks. Our disagreement is not a technical one, it is a profound policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories of the House they are attending our meeting, thirty-five students and one meeting from the Panteion University. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On behalf of the government, the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Mousalas, will take the lead. Mr. Muzala, you have the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the protagonists of the honourable Members who ask the question, matters have been raised beyond the question. I'm probably going to miss something now, but I think we're going to have time to talk about it again. Let me start as follows. I read the question very carefully. It has the permanent feature that has too many of the positions of the Opposition. It takes a distortion or a lie as a given and on it "builds" another given, which is also a lie. In fact, the adoption of such a lie - I do not give any intention, in any of what I say I give no intention and, if I say so, I will call it - leads you, for example, to say that Europe does not have a common policy. So Europe has a common policy. It has a common political institution. Europe's common policy is based on the reception of refugees, relocation and resettlement. Relocation is proportionally the refugees in countries, resettlement is the establishment by Turkey and a balance between security and human rights. In this sense, there is nothing to help now to hear expressions which I do not think anyone believes. A Member of Parliament said: 'to curb the hordes of the jihadists'. For God's sake, there are no such things. Are there terrorists and terrorists, but jihadists' hordes? Tools for this policy are the identification centres, this malicious hotspot. They are the relocation camps, places where refugees will be installed until they are relocated to Europe - an average of two months - they are the apartments that will serve again, the hotspots, the location centres in places in Turkey. That is Europe's policy. In Europe's policy, there are states within Europe that are opposite. I am referring to Hungary, because it is a clear example. There are members of the People's Party - not the People's Party itself - and of course there are the far-right and xenophobic elements, regardless of the way they are organized. There is no reason for any party to the democratic arch to join them. If you look at the issues, if you read, there are all these written, I do not invent them. He says to the question: "What will the government do, why did he do government?" etc. - not to waste time - 'for the permanent establishment of fifty thousand people, which is a violation of proportionality'. The lie is there is no permanent installation of fifty thousand people. Once you accept that, then you build something, which is based on a lie. Greece has been under pressure for 100 thousand positions. This pressure, through our efforts and our assistance from both the Commissioner and other states in Europe, has been decided on fifty thousand temporary posts, which have been shared. Seven to ten thousand in hotspots, identification centres, twenty thousand apartments, subsidized rental places - which is a great conquest of this thing, you must not despise, share the population, bring money to the economy, you know, I do not think I need to tell you - and twenty thousand hosting places in what we say in the English camp - the Greek is bad, they are called refugee camps - which we are trying, in consultation with the United Nations, to share them in smaller pieces. We are partners with the United Nations. That's a lie. Hotspot only in the islands, not in the mainland. That's not true. The identification centres are made on the islands, because that's where the flows go and where the flows are going. The streams go first and then the identification centers go. I'm putting down the flow here. What islands? On these four islands. Why? Because that's where the streams are increased. Because that's where the first wave goes off. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is not a perverse choice between Europe or me or the government. First the flow goes and then the I.D. center goes. Apart from these identification centres and not yet our obligation from the European Union, we will build both Macedonia and Attica in these relocation camps for those who leave the islands without being fully identified, due to increased flows. You say that in Europe, the single asylum policy has not been established. I imagine you mean European asylum. It is good to be in favour of European asylum. The People's Party and I think the New Democracy or a large part of its members are not in favour of European asylum. I wish there was such a coincidence. This is a position of social democracy, partly on the left and on the Greens, and I hope I am wrong. You're talking about returns, and I've heard you make fire reasons. There's no need for fire reasons. In 2014, gentlemen, you made forced repayments of 11 thousand sixty - eighty people. In 2015, ten thousand three hundred ninety became. We're making refunds. As with you, and in the SYRIZA Government, there is the problem with Pakistan and Turkey. You've dealt with it and we're dealing with it. You put it on and we put it on. We have no ideal on these issues. With regard to repatriations, that is, when Greece goes to Turkey. In 2014, you submitted four hundred nine requests for nine thousand six hundred ninety-one people and accepted four hundred seventy. In 2015 - so far - the government has submitted six hundred five demands for nine thousand three hundred and six hundred twenty-four people. As far as refunds are concerned, you cannot know - and that is why you have no reason to leave it - that Mr Avramopoulos has said on several occasions - and the last Council of Ministers I took part in Europe has the responsibility - that the European Union must act on the refunds. You had the problem before and we've got it now. The same was decided on for Turkey. Where can we fight here now? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u172	We'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u173	There's a lot of ground. Unfortunately, there is!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u174	We'll talk. All right, all right. Finally, he says in the question: 'The government is passively monitoring the upgrading of Turkey's role'. This is a disgrace! I don't easily use those words. It's a disgrace! It's too wrong! It is the government that has taken resettlement from the Yonker proposal in Turkey, and last but not least within three months it has brought it up to the main theme of the European Union. It is this government, which helped with the Merkel-Erdogan meeting. He held a meeting with Turkey on these issues. He has produced inter-ministerial committees and committees on these issues. That's what happened in the last three months. It has also succeeded in participating in the trilogue with Germany and Turkey and - that is very important - in the European Union's main policy of resettling, i.e. the camps in Turkey. With regard to the answers I would like to give you, I think that for the relocation, relocation centres, I have told you. Here it is a success that, while at first, we were given sixteen thousand refugee seats to relocate, we were finally able to have sixty thousand positions. You say: 'Is it possible for the government to insist on the creation of hotspots only on islands which are tourist destinations?' How does the government insist on this? We've got the flow. Hots, identification centres, can only be done where refugees come from. Here is an objective difficulty that you and I have had, that the flow is determined by others. It is defined by Turkey. It is our flagship in the European Union, this thing, that Greece is not the door, it is the corridor. Where are the identification centres going to be built? Where the refugees come out. If Kos doesn't want to, we can't change the geographical position. There can't be two thousand refugees coming out in Kos and three hundred in Lero and build the identification centre in Lero. It's not blackmail. It's not mean. That thing's objective. You can't help it. You'll do it like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u175	Minister, Turkey has the hotspots and why it refuses them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u176	I'll tell you, Mr. Athanasios. I have listened with great respect and with care to your position. I'll tell you about that. So no one is insisting on creating these centres where they are tourist destinations. He insists, because it has to be where the flows come from. Why does the government insist there? Because it is, ladies and gentlemen, the only way, if properly done, if properly operated, to make the least possible damage to tourism. That thing we have to understand. Kos paid for having these bad reactions last year. He paid for that thing. Samos? The Mayor of Samos is not a SYRIZA. Chios? The Mayor of Chios is not a SYRIZA. Mytilini? The mayor of Mytilene is not SYRIZA. Leros? The mayor of Leros is not SYRIZA. They want it. They are rightly seeking, criticizing, wanting more things, making a negotiation, wanting to help like this, they want to help otherwise. Do not take positions that do not help but involve a solution. It's easy to choose some things, but if you look at them, it's not random. Four mayors - the three of the New Democracy - have agreed on everything - we have disagreed on other things - and we are going to build. A mayor has not agreed, he is the one you support. That's not how you offer good service. You're most scientists. One must stand scientifically, make a cold analysis of this matter and, of course, then put his ideological opinion on it. But the cold analysis will help you and me to get rid of strangles and not to accept lies like truths. So the government is making identification centres because it is trying to safeguard tourism as well. We also have a duty to identify and secure Greece and Europe, and this must be done very well. I present the table on returns and returns for the minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Reimbursements and re-entry. We've been through it. Because the government has not claimed accelerating procedures. I told you before that there is no council or bilateral, a bilateral meeting, which I have with ministers in Europe, which the Prime Minister has, or that the Foreign Minister has not raised the matter. And you can easily have access to the Minutes of Summer and the Council of Ministers, where you will see it at all as the second point we put after the issue of Turkey. Therefore, we here or have not been or have been overtaken - no matter what you say, you like this thing - any strangles. That's not a reason now. They can. We want to do it. We understand that. I also want to tell you this. I've said it many times, to tell you now. The illegal immigrant or the irregular immigrant - it is not an ideological matter of what you say, in French, it is called'sans papiers', so do not seek to find differentiations here - has rights and obligations. It is against the Geneva Convention not allowing you to enter a country for ethnic reasons and ask for asylum. As you know, asylum can be demanded by a Frenchman in England, an American in Thailand, a Thai in Yemen. Whether he gets it, it's another matter. But the UN gives him the legal right to seek asylum. In this sense, the move made by countries such as Slovenia and Croatia - Croatia - says that it did so because it was forced by Slovenia, Skopje says that they did so because they were forced by Croatia - is a move that violates the Geneva Treaty and European law. However, it is a fact and as a country we must stand by it. We defend the law of those who want to seek political asylum but the fact remains. So these people have three legal routes and a government can only apply legality. The first legal path - which they have a right - is to seek asylum. They will therefore enter the asylum procedure and we will at some point judge the asylum, and we will do so accordingly. The second possibility is to ask for voluntary repatriation. Now, in these last people, we have several applications for voluntary repatriation. We have done a great deal of work with the International Organisation for Migration. We're trying to start. Europe has given it a fairly significant sum that can cover many such positions. The third thing we have, which is not the right but the obligation, is that if they do not want one or the other, they should be placed in the category of those who return to their country. On this issue, there is no objection. Where there is objection, ladies and gentlemen, it's that we don't have to be so vulnerable to how many prisons we'll make. In the question he says: "How will Greece be able to withstand 50 000 refugees?" We have in the pre-dispatching centres, which - I think I know well - SYRIZA inherited - I do not call it degradingly - from New Democracy, about four thousand positions. There are already people in there. How many can we make, gentlemen? What do you say in your argument against hosting refugees? How many can we make? Make thirty thousand? What if sixty thousand come? We'll make sixty...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u177	Minister, we're not talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u178	Let me do the parallel, if you want. What if seventy thousand come? So I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u179	We're not saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u180	But you can't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u181	Because we hear you, that's why we disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u182	So I say that while for refugees, you say ‘How long will we last?’ And you are right, for the prisons, you do not say 'how much will we last?'. We've got four thousand seats. All our criminal system - Mr Athanasios, correct me - must not exceed 15 000 posts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u183	Minister, we're not talking about prisons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u184	It's the same dead end. If refunds do not apply, if recesses do not apply, the problem will remain the same. The pressure must therefore be where the government is right to put it on Turkey's agenda. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall end in a minute, Mr President. There's a government planning. It has been said many times. It may or may not be agreed. But he can't say there's no design. It coincides with the design of Europe and has some new elements. They are the identification centres, which are built on the islands. In Lesvos, 90% ready. It was approved by the European Commission. In Chios we have created a temporary, which has received very good criticism from the European Commission and in cooperation with the municipality, we have bought a factory and are preparing a more decent one. There are major improvements in Samos. Lero's getting ready, and by the end of the year it'll work. In Kos is the well-known situation, which is suffering and suffering. At this point I would like to tell you that with all the mayors I had an excellent cooperation, except in the case of Kos, which is a special case. But I have no reason to argue with anyone. That doesn't mean we didn't have any disagreements. It means we've been able to marry our different opinions. I must publicly apologise to the Mayors of the Greek, Glyfada, Argyroupoli, because this time, because of the workload, I could not go there before these people go there. Every time I see them, every time we talk. We believe that without local government this can't go any further. We have a very big improvement in the typing with very few means. Of what we need, Europe has given us 1/3 third. In other words, to reach 50% we have taken them from Germany, which has offered them to us. What's the famous identification center? Listen, so there won't be any misunderstandings. It's guaranteed. It's a patent. It is a closed hosting and recording structure and lasts forty-eight to seventy-two hours. It's guarded by the police. ID functions are from the police. Once this is done, it automatically moves into the mainland. This is the ID. And for that reason, it can help the islands. We've been talking about relocation camps. We've been through the rents. Border security. Listen, I told the European Union, what do you mean? Resuscitation to the sea, Mr. Voridis? I do not agree with that. Do you agree with the United Nations? Do you agree with Europe's law? Do you agree with national law? Are you claiming that you had a policy of resuscitation to the sea? I think you were denying her when you were government. I think you were accused of resuming to the sea and saying 'No, these things are not happening'. And today, Mr. Vorides, suggests a sea stir? I am so glad that this thing was not proposed by anyone else. But Greece is not a clear vine. The border in Evros is wonderful, nobody enters. At sea, you can't stir up. If it were, FRONTEX would have done it. At sea, you must also rescue for that reason, as long as the flow from the European Union cannot be controlled and controlled by Turkey, we will have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u185	Illegal immigrants were resuscitating.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Athanasios, please don't interrupt. They will also speak to parliamentarians, they will ask questions if necessary. Minister, go on. You've already been in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u187	For Turkey you must consider it a great success. It was a last matter and in three months we raised it, with the help of reality, is true, because our position was right. We raised it first, set up committees, run, meet Prime Ministers, became the bilateral with Germany tripartite. It's a success. Finally, I would like to tell you that as Greek MPs, beyond the criticism you can make and that you have the right to do and I will not tell you what to do, you should know, by reading the texts of the committees, which are easy to find, that we have been commended by the European Commission with criticism, together but praise for the steps we have taken, by Asselborne, the President, from Abraham, the Commissioner, from the High Commissioner for Refugees, from the High Commissioner for Human Rights, from the President of the International Organisation for Immigration. And in the last sammit for the first time - they are written in the minutes of the sammit - 65% of the countries that participated said in his speech that Greece is going well, helping her, backing up, tearing up. Put your back on. Criticism is good, it can be creative. If it is a criticism that broadcasts "The jihadists will eat us, we will do, we will sew," they are not. And I'd like to think there's been an end to intercepting the sea. I must admit that I was upset about this, because I remember that the New Democracy quite rightly, a bourgeois party, hopefully Enlightenment, did not even discuss this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the circle of the Parliamentary Representatives, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Chamber and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-eight students and students and two teachers attending the Kyprissia Messinia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me announce the appointment of parliamentary representatives from five parties. In particular, SYRIZA stipulates for the debate on the topical question by Mrs Katrivanos Vassilis, by New Democracy Mrs Theodora Bakoyannis, by the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiriris, by the Communist Party, Mr. Katsotis Christos and by Potamis Folila Iason. Mrs Bakoyannis, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. For twelve minutes is the protology, you have dentology and tritology. The other parliamentary representatives have only protagonists, as they know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the Minister. You must admit, Minister, that the New Democracy Members in question, with great seriousness and responsibility, are facing the issue, because for the New Democracy it is the number one problem, and I fear that it is not just the dimensions of internal policy, but as I have just said yesterday, I have had the opportunity to stress the foreign policy dimension of the country and European, because Europe will be very upset by this problem and it will not be easy to deal with it. But you came to tell us - with low tones I have to say - that the New Democracy lied and was based on a lie. You are wrong to say, my Minister, but you are disputing yourself. You said that we are claiming that Europe does not have a common policy. It doesn't have, Minister! It has common conclusions of European Councils, which I have all of them here, but it does not have a common policy. Because I informed your Prime Minister today - as he had not taken care of anyone else to inform him - that yesterday Hungary and Slovenia appealed to the European Court of Justice to cancel the decision to relocate refugees from Greece to their countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u190	We know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u191	If you know, my lady King, you should have informed those responsible too! So, think that of the fifty thousand we accepted here, the nine hundred eighty-eight would go to Hungary in theory and the six hundred twelve in Slovenia. So what if other countries resort? So the New Democracy didn't lie. What we said is the truth. There is a huge problem in Europe today. There are countries that do not want to accept, there are countries that want to lift fences. And that is a reality which, unfortunately, we cannot deny. Second, you told us we lied about the 50 thousand. How did we lie, Minister, about the fifty thousand? In the same breath, you said immediately after they were going to ask us for a hundred thousand, that we had our success, and we took fifty thousand, and that these fifty thousand, we would share them in apartments, etc. Inside the country, though. You won't share them in apartments in Tobuktu! Here in Greece they will share. So, we still haven't lied. That's true. Fifty thousand have been accepted by the government to take. I will not judge whether it was right or wrong. I understand that you were under pressure - that's not the problem - but we didn't lie. So, little attention to how we talk about opposition, especially when it comes well and wants to support and help. I would therefore like to reiterate the position of the New Democracy. Minister, the position of the New Democracy is the European position, which, on the basis of all these decisions, distinguishes refugees from economic migrants. Are we in agreement with this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u193	Good. The refugees therefore receive all protections which European law gives them, and we have made an agreement which I fear the rest of the European countries will not observe, but in any case, we insist on this agreement. They must be shared in all the countries of Europe. They are refugees and they need special protection from Europe. Then we have the economic migrants. I won't call them illegals or irregulars, as you want, tell them! The whole of Europe has agreed that it cannot stand world poverty. He can't handle it. Our societies cannot accept the whole of world poverty. Therefore, immigrants are treated differently. What is this treatment? You said it fast. In other words, they must return to their countries, they must be repatriated. How will repatriation be done? Greece has signed seventeen agreements with other countries and fifteen agreements have been signed by the European Union. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u194	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u195	They're headed by the competent diplomatics. That's right, then. What does that mean? It means that where we have bilateral agreements, we put them on a plane, the European Union pays it and they go, Minister. There are also cases where Europe has agreed. And you were right to say since I was at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Pakistan's behaviour has been annoying. Europe has signed with Pakistan, so it must press Pakistan. And the way to press Pakistan - not to chew my words - is one. There is no funding in Pakistan if it does not get its inhabitants back. The Greek foreign policy and the Greek Foreign Minister must say this outright and openly, because those who were yesterday in "Tacvodo" are people who come from all of them or from the Maghreb - where instead of going directly, as they used to, they have found their way through Turkey and come here - whether they are from Central Africa or are people from Pakistan, Bangladesh, etc., who have a chance of returning. So there we are telling you that you are late, clear things. The numbers you gave us, compare them to the times when the flows were much lower. So you compare ours with yours. It was lower, Minister. Today we have to run if we want to. To run, we must record and we must also guard. So here I am telling you that pre-repeal centres must work immediately and must be closed hosting centres so that, at a much faster rate than those we have today, these people can return home. Be decent, be human - there is no doubt about it - but quickly. Because otherwise, together with the refugees, who really need protection, we will meet with them and with them. So the separation must be clean. And because the message of the brothers, friends, colleagues, has sometimes been very confused - and I do not want to say anything more - it is now good for the SYRIZA Government to make it clear. I'm glad to hear you say that the Evros border is brilliant. I take it as an honor for all of us who were not intimidated to say that the Evros fence must be shattered. Thank you, and I am glad that at least the Minister of Government SYRIZA recognises that some of our policies were not downside policies because we liked to build fences, but because they were necessary for border guarding. To me, it's a key theme of cooperation. My feeling is that the Ministry of Immigration was rightly established, but it's not enough. In order to be able to make this effort seriously, you need at least one Inter-Governmental Commission of three to four Ministers, the corresponding Secretary-General and the implementation, Minister, because what we are now seeing is 'we see and do'. You know that, too. You don't have the infrastructure underneath. Was Greece not prepared, as the Prime Minister told us today? I'll take it. Greece wasn't prepared. But it has to be prepared now. Eleven months is the story. Now we must really prepare and deal with the problem, because otherwise black winter waits for us and we will become a first page of all those who want to see us as the black sheep, if anything happens to the cold or if anything else happens within our region. So cooperation is a key issue, intra-government cooperation, which does not exist today. I've heard you claim there is. So I would be very curious to know exactly what the plan is, namely who will give the apartments, by what process they will be able to get in, what camps - or whatever you want, tell them - how many people they fit, who will pay and how they will pay for the islands, the people responsible and so on. You said a good word about the municipalities. I must say I was waiting for you around the corner, and you caught me up! Because your Prime Minister today was unfortunate in his expression when he spoke to Mr Leventis when he said about populist mayors. If it is good in SYRIZA to avoid the word "plasticism" because I think you have taken a doctorate in the matter of populism. Besides, you're not talking about the mayor being a populist when the mayors are backed up. Self-government and grade 1 and grade 2 put back on this whole thing. The mayors went and fed to Galatsi the hungry people, the mayors went to the Old Faliro, the three mayors, the Greek, etc., are in front of tents who did not know their existence and now see in a hundred meters from where their children are engaged, without any preparation, that people are coming. People are, of course, in need, but let us know that we must also notify local government. Nothing, Minister, can be done without cooperation. I am pleased that you have said so and I am pleased that you have corrected your Prime Minister, because I hope - and not because he meant it - he has said a great deal of talk, which is good that you at least corrected it. On the issue of borders, I would like to say the following. The need to guard the borders is a position that you too have signed in all European texts. You're all talking about the need for border guards. In fact, there is a phrase that I would not accept as a Foreign Minister, but I imagine that the positions are now a little curious. He says that FRONTEX will have the right to act on our borders. I would not sign this as a Foreign Minister. You signed it. This is the public announcement. I wouldn't sign it. There is, Mr. Xydakis. There is also English - thank God - we have learned. That's what the text says. In any case, what does FRONTEX mean will it act on itself? It means that FRONTEX will also be in the common European patrol, that is, the Port, in order to proceed to a certain form of border guarding. That's what he says. So the New Democracy did not tell you, and I would ask you very much to be very clear about this, nor did anyone ever come out of New Democracy to say that we are going to sink people in the Aegean. I'm sorry, there's no such thing as that. Clear things and don't put words to us in the mouth we didn't say. That the borders must be guarded, you say it yourself when you tell us that they are spectacularly guarded in Evros. In other words, you don't deny it, you've signed it. So, Minister, because diplomatics are too complicated, he wants to pay attention when you accuse the Greek opposition and how much more of a party like New Democracy, which in any case has a history in this area. The last sentence I would like to say is that I expect Mr Xydakis' answers from yesterday to continue the nice debate that we had yesterday. I expect an answer, because I am very interested in this. You spoke of Turkey. I agree, Turkey has refused all this time. We have put it too, you put it yourself. It's not your success. Let us not have seven hundred thousand refugees in Germany and I would have told you whether the European Union and Germany would have shown this sensitivity to Turkey. But in any case, we all agree today that Turkey is a matter and that Turkey must definitely comply with the agreements it has made, otherwise the European Union should also react differently. We have, however, made agreements which the House does not know about. I put it yesterday. I don't know if you know them, because it's not your responsibility, but it's Mr. Xydakis' jurisdiction or Mr. Kotzias's accuracy, because it's not Mr. Xydakis's responsibility either. We have made some agreements, which the House must know. I said it yesterday and I repeat it today. The NOTAMs that came down at the same time as Greek and Turkish, I want to know what a deal is. What have we agreed with Turkey? The Greek Parliament is entitled to know, Mr. Minister. That's not what's happening in secret. So we say yes to the battle in favour of Greek interests together, we say yes to the problem together, but to know that the administrative incompetence shown by the government is no longer possible to mention it to you and not to tell you where you are suffering, because that is the task that we have. Refugee flows will get worse. The picture we have today is bad. I'm afraid it'll be even worse in winter. If we are not prepared, then, and if we do not quickly start repatriation, so that at least 50% of those who come to get away from it can also send a message to Morocco, Algeria and all of them that 'Children, do not come from Greece, because you will be leaving again. There's no point in getting into trouble or risking your kids in the Aegean Sea. From Greece you will not enter Europe," this message must be clear to those who are not refugees and do not need European protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mrs Bakoyannis. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mrs Catrivanou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the questions raised by the topical and urgent question, I would like us to consider a very basic issue in the concept of the New Democracy, which is the problem for me. You even claim today that Greece became a magnet and has attracted migratory flows since the government change took place in January 2015. If that is the case, then what is the case with Italy, Hungary, across Europe and around the world? Is it SYRIZA's fault for this thing? Is it because of SYRIZA, where Europe is currently facing the greatest displacement and movement of people after World War II? Are you accusing us of such supernatural powers? I wish we had them, we could do more. Flows have increased, because people desperately realize that they cannot return home. Watch the TV and all the pictures from Syria. A pile of ruins. In 2014, we had forty - five thousand people who came here. In 2015, we had seven hundred sixty thousand. The flow is not comparable. Most are refugees. Not to be a full spec of what we're doing with immigrants. I want us to admit that most people who come are refugees. And so we have to say what we are doing with the refugee, because this is the key question in Greece of 2015, in Europe of 2015, in the 2015 world. And those who, you know, have been asked what they will do next, if the war stopped, everyone says they want to go home, because we know that people would not leave if there was security and elementary dignity in their homeland. Therefore, the solution - not to play but to recognise and say things by their name - is to stop the war in these countries and strengthen them with infrastructure and develop so that people have an elementary dignity and can stay there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u198	Immigrants, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u199	Relax. That's ridiculous. You are denounced for hotspots on the islands - I will call them identification centres but I say it so that we have a common language - that it is an attraction and magnet. So we believe that people are risking their lives and the lives of their children, to go to a nice hotspot or to escape from war and from destruction, why have they no choice? A Syrian refugee said - and has been released much online - that no one is risking putting their child on a boat unless the water is safer than land. Furthermore, Mrs Kundura, with whom I have spoken, disguises what she said. He said the hotspots should not be in a central place and should be a short-day stay. That's what he told me he told the Mayor of Kos. Finally, would we like all this world to be around the islands without a place in? That would promote tourism in the region? How do we see it? We saw what happens when the opposite works. You are accusing us of protecting the borders and especially the seas. Well, when a warship enters another country, clearly there's opposition to entry and clearly there's border protection. But you know it's both cruel and illegal to do people's backwards when you don't know on the boat what it is. And you can't do the check while the other guy's drowning. You have to rescue. On the boat you will rescue all people. That's the basic thing. And then the identification process will follow. At that time, you'll save everyone. We have stopped the illegal repropriations that were made before and were against the Constitution and European law. We're proud of that. We are proud that reproaching us does not cause people to drown. If you can, please, make a little quiet, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u200	We agree with what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u201	So you say to another part of your question that the Prime Minister is turning the country into soul storehouses and undermining the demand for proportional distribution of refugees into European Union countries. You know very well that the first time Greece actually raised the issue of the proportional distribution of refugees was by a SYRIZA government and by Alexis Tsipras. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u202	It took fifty thousand, and the others didn't take anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u203	You, ladies and gentlemen, had found another solution before. You'd found a solution to the detention centers. You put refugees there illegally, minors illegally, vulnerable groups illegally, asylum seekers illegally. And that was a solution that brought some effectiveness? You illegally kept the people inside, went out, grabbed them again, kept them again. Do we see any realism in dealing with immigration? You are therefore complaining that 50 000 refugees will be installed in Greece. He's answered. Of the fifty thousand refugees a proportion will be relocated, transferred to other countries in Europe, and perhaps another one will seek asylum, and if not, the legal procedures will be followed. I would like to ask the following question: In 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, you remember how many people were trapped here? Have you forgotten what happened to Patras and Igoumenitsa? Ladies and gentlemen, we also have collective responsibility for some people to keep and take care of their integration. At the moment Jordan has 3 million, Turkey 2.5 million, Germany has over 700. That is where I want you to be strong Europeans. So you ask if we understand the danger of people being closed down and locked up here. Of course, we are very concerned about it and we are very much aware of it. But we're not in danger. Another is awareness, and another is to be used for dangers. We are proposing and demanding a rapid proportional distribution of these people in Europe. We demand greater allocations and the resettlement with large numbers from Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan. You say we have abandoned the immediate re-promotion of immigrants in your question. Apparently, you're confusing the concepts. But readmission which is a legitimate process and which we too want to see re-promotion, which is an illegal process. It was heard under other conditions: guarding, deterrence. All of this is illegal at sea and leads to drowning and shipwrecking. The government can't take these things into its throat. The refugee problem, ladies and gentlemen, has no magical solutions. We know it and we see it. People will continue to move and be displaced as long as there are wars, disasters and horrors. No fences will stop them. They'll find roads. That's how we see it, that's how reality says it. We need a human and realistic vision that strengthens security, reception, integration and not a vision that strengthens fear and racism. Europe will be judged on the management of the refugee and so will our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u204	Mrs. Catrivanu, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u205	We have to answer. Do we want to become Hungary of the Mediterranean or better to fight to be better than that, with our shortcomings, which we do with all our powers and our policies today? You should see what the Commissioner for Human Rights said today, Mr Musniek, at the Council of Europe. It has asked the European Union to change its rhetoric to prevent racism. He said "... design more human policies that improve reception conditions, facilitate safe passage and access to asylum, as well as promote effective integration in reception societies". We want this Europe and this Europe we are fighting for. And for this country, we are fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u206	The Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u207	He stood up and left, as expected, the appointed Minister of Illegal Immigrants, who took no vote from the Greek people. He was appointed and entered the House and runs the country. It was hidden, as every time the Golden Dawn exercises parliamentary control over this national crime involving illegal immigrants. In fact, it sends us these disgusting manuscripts here, these disgusting documents, where it says that the Syrian ministers do not deal with racism. It sends us these infamous documents and the Minister and Tsipras are hiding, because they have criminalised Greece. Well, he did, and he hid himself today. We are asking you to release us more generally from this sad presence, from these misery, from your racism against Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u208	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u209	Shame on you! You're ashamed that you sold Greece out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u210	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u211	Shame on you who have made Greece a illegal immigrant warehouse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u212	Please, Mr. Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u213	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u214	You must be ashamed of yourself! You're the seller and the fool! You betrayed the country and you have no right to speak in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u215	Get lost!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u216	Degraded!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Cassidy, leave the characterizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u218	Your Prime Minister should go to the Pakistani. Let your Minister go to Taekovod to hang out with the Pakistani and clear our corner. Well he did and got up and left, because all you do is illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u219	We're talking here, we're not boiling.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u220	Please, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u221	When Tsipras goes up here and says it's not legal to relaunch illegal immigrants...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u222	Please, Mr. Cassidy. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u223	...presumably the man is an idiot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u224	I'll interrupt you. I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u225	No, Mr. President. You'll listen. You never talked...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u226	Please. But you don't respect the Bureau, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u227	...when the Minister refused to reply to parliamentary control. As long as this country is betrayed, as long as this country is sold out, we will raise tons and tell the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u228	Can you hear me, Mr. Cassidy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u229	Here, at the moment, there is a racism against Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u230	Can you hear me, please? I'm being nice to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u231	There is a government that wants to make Greece a ghetto of illegal immigrants. There is a government that wants to make the Greek minority within this country. That disgrace won't pass. Golden Dawn will take care of that, because the Golden Dawn today is the only voice that says loudly what every citizen wants to say. Tsipras said earlier that no one reacts to Kos and that everyone accepts what is happening. To ask Kammenos what happened when he went to Kos. To ask Abrahamopoulos for omelettes. Ask all those who betray this country, who are hiding from parliamentary control, who decide against Greece. They have piled the German economic oligarchy, because as you know very well, it is Merkel that, playing the game of German industrialists, forced these flows of illegal immigrants to start through Greece to go to northern Europe. Today, they turn Greece into what Tsipras said in a warehouse. If I said so, you'd condemn me. Another Syrian had said about "cooked Moroccans". If the Golden Dawn used this phrase, you would all come out and say, "Make them a lift of immunity with anti-racist law". Now where does the government say that? That was true. You want Greece to become a storeroom for millions of illegal immigrants, because then it will be much easier to sell the country and the wealthy sources of our country in a Europe that gives the Turks 3 billion euros. We are paying the Turks right now EUR 3 billion to send millions of illegal immigrants into Greece. Closed borders, then! That's the solution. To close the border at last. And don't talk about humanity, because you're fake humanists, since with your own policy, minor children are drowning in the Aegean Sea. If there were the policy of closed borders, then all of them would remain on the coast of Asia Minor, where there is no war or problem. You are playing the game of the Americans, who have created the problem, as the war led millions of people on the road to refugee and illegal immigration. If you want, you play the game of all these foreign forces that are aimed at enslaving this country. So your humanism is a fake, and this is denounced by the Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn asks for self-evident. It calls, in this country, for legislation to finally be applied. And what does the law say? He says the opposite of what Tsipras does. The law in Greece says that anyone who enters our territory must be reprocessed to their country of origin. And here comes the man who wants to be called the Prime Minister and says that it's illegal repropriations. Where did that sound? Who does he think he's talking to? In hazelnuts? Retreats and expulsions of illegal immigrants are the only legal instrument to be imposed to get our homeland out of this anxieties of illegal immigration. But, as I said before, you are racist against the Greeks. You have reached the point where you - the Ministry of Justice - a law where anyone who gives food to Greek citizens will go indicted to the prosecutor. You who have given nothing to Greek citizens, you have taken it all from the Greek citizens, blame us because when we had a state funding, we returned it to the Greek citizen through the custodians. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] This policy we denounce. That's why we see you're getting tired, you're crazy, you get sick many times when we talk at this Step about Golden Dawn, because you're afraid of the truth, you're afraid of control over all these crimes you're doing against Greece. The recent example of France has shown that the multiculturalism, which you publish, has died. There isn't. Multicultural model in European nations and states does not exist. In France the nationalist party became the first party. The same will be done with the Golden Dawn in Greece, only we will not allow you to make Greece, France. Greece will remain a sovereign national state, as much as the forces of globalisation are opposed, which are expressed by all the parties in this House. I do not blame the New Democracy, which today makes the sensitive - supposedly - for the issue of illegal immigrants. From 1992 to Samaras who started and put all the Albanian in Greece, we ended up with Prokopi Pavlopoulos, who said: "We are proud to see the millions from Pakistan and Bangladesh." So the whole political system at the expense of our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Tsipras said so very well today - I agree with him - to unite all the wings of the House, from left to right, to face Golden Dawn. To unite on the issue of illegal immigrants all Parliament's wings, as they have systematically done all these years, at the expense of the Golden Dawn. The Golden Dawn, therefore, against all, continues this race. We will be the final winners, because we are the only ones fighting for a great and free Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u232	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is now undeniable that Europe is facing the greatest post-war migration flow, for the management of which it proves unprepared and awkward, as was the economic crisis. They have sparked populism, fears and been exploited by extremes, subjugating the democratic profile of the European Union. At the same time, solidarity and the European achievement of open society are at stake, in other words, being tested both by the structure and cohesion of the European Union. We therefore need a clear European and international strategy at first instance. The problem has three dimensions. It is international, European and national for our country. It is international because it must be resolved at the source of refugees. There must be an effort to make peace, for example in Syria. Here too, we must take action from international organisations and, of course, the European Union must press in this direction. It is European, because it is not only Italian, it is not only Greek, it is a European issue. In the last few days I was in Brussels. I met Commissioner Avramopoulos. We had a detailed debate where he informed me of all the issues and where the situation is right now in our country. It is a good thing that we have agreed with Commissioner Avramopoulos: firstly, that the Northern European fences are not a solution. It is not a solution to the policy currently being pursued by individual countries such as Hungary. Secondly, the problem, as I have said before, is European and cannot be solved by any country alone, nor by Greece. Thirdly, we need action towards a single European policy. What is needed, for example, in matters of security is more Schengen and not less Schengen. Without wanting to say much more of a sense of national responsibility on this issue, Minister, I would like you to know that you have made commitments - we have already discussed them in the briefing you have made in detail in the previous period - which are heavy for our country. However, since they have been taken over, you will have to be able to fulfil them at this time, because this procedure can come back to us in the next few years. You know very well that there has been a debate on Article 26 of the Treaty from some countries, which, of course, could never have been and all this could have come back to the fore in the spring. That is why we must respect the difficult commitments we have made and the timetables for hotspots, which are difficult timetables, and you are well aware of that, but all possible efforts must be made in consultation with local government. It is a national issue, as I have said before. At national level too, let me say that a little has been done in the last ten months. Indeed, we see from you a process that things have entered into a series of years ago, but what happened - and last week in the Council of Ministers - is very worrying. But we have, first of all, lost a very long time. I should like to remind you that there have been incredible statements, loopholes and too many issues which have not gone all the way from the former Minister - because your government has a follow-up, it is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government itself - and we see that these problems have also led to this situation. Minister, I told you in a committee about the relocation process that the process of a fiasco, which has been done to leave thirty people and relocate, is not honoring neither our country nor the European Union. The next day in the Aegean Sea we mourned more refugees. And we tell you that we are positive about the relocation of sixty thousand at European Union level. You replied that this matter should be made public and that is why it was done, that was the argument of the government. Well, that is exactly what we are telling you that this is not a matter of this strategy. And what you said here today and you and the Prime Minister have said a moment ago is that it has not been achieved in the end either in immigrants and refugees, nor in the other countries of the European Union to participate in the system. Therefore, I tell you now, because in one, two years' time, we will see this process of fieste back and no one will honour either the European Union or Greece or your Government. At national level, therefore, the crisis has found the country weakened by this long-term economic crisis. There was a lack of central planning on the part of the government through contradictory statements I mentioned to you. But we don't stick to theory. It is an issue where we really need understanding. And I would remind you that at the recent Council of Political Heads of State or Government, the Democratic Reconciliation took part in the joint communiqué on the refugee issue. I would also like to say here about the New Democracy that the issue of refugee is very serious and a national effort should be made. And badly he did not participate in the Council's joint communiqué of political leaders in the previous days. It is an issue of which if we do not understand the implications at the moment, if we do not understand that the European structure is at stake - and of course our country accepts all this pressure - then it will not be possible to find a solution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] But we have made concrete proposals. We have made the proposal 'KIVOTOS', the pilot project in the European Union, which refers to specific elements. We've seen Mayor of Athenians. We have seen them in our meeting with you, we are constantly putting forward proposals and we want you to see them with genuine understanding, which we are seeking. So I told you when we were found - a central planning of immigration policy. A few things have also been done on this subject, despite your commitments for a cross-party committee. There is no new risk of the country remaining in the Schengen Agreement. To create a common front with countries facing the same problem. To increase the state certification and recording structures, both at the entrance gate and in the rest of the continent. To exploit, Minister, unexploited public spaces. And you know what? At our meeting - and you said it publicly - you said that you have a file with camps which could be used and which the Minister of National Defence gives you. However, we have not seen such a process progress along the way. We want them to move faster, to submit the evidence, to see if there is such cooperation, because we do not see it. In the pilot project "KIVOTOS" we have submitted to the European Union we call for special care for vulnerable groups, such as single-parent families, pregnant, disabled children, and unaccompanied or exposed orphans. Our humanism must be shown in this process, that is what we want! For these vulnerable groups too, we are proposing the creation of this European programme aimed at creating a safe road to Europe. It was presented in detail by Mrs Gennimatas in Malta, at the European Summit of Socialists and Democrats. Yesterday, in Brussels, I also analysed it in the Socialists and Democrats' group and, of course, because they want to be a European issue and a European solution, they see very positively these proposals which they want to go ahead with. Of course, it cannot be allowed in different countries, as I told you before, to raise walls, not respecting their own agreement at the various summits. We therefore need exceptional financial support from the European Union and we need, in cooperation with third or accession countries, to combat traffickers' circuits. I heard the Prime Minister this morning referring to Eurodac, for example, that we hope it will be done quickly with the new procedures. Today, however, the European Commission has sent a strict warning to Greece, together with other countries, that it does not comply with the identification system and that we will then have the procedure of the European Court of Justice and the harmonisation of the Community directive, which shows that the procedure has not gone ahead. So what are your actions on all these issues, which the European Commission is putting today in its official communication? We have heard the Prime Minister say about the question of travel to Turkey that until now we have seen nothing about reducing the refugee flows, that is to say, he is not satisfied with what he said, that he has achieved nothing. We have seen you happy, on the other hand, on the issues that have been raised with Turkey. Let us say here that this is not a bilateral issue and it is not even a tripartite one. It is a matter of the European Union and its relations with Turkey. And so it has to be resolved, because if it stays on the bilateral level, we will not achieve anything, just as the Prime Minister's trip to Turkey has done. And of course, you referred to the issue of European asylum. We have taken concrete action on the issue of immigration. I mentioned some of the recent ones. I am tabling the Minutes and the question by Mr Cremastinos, who had made since April to the former Minister of the Interior, on the issue of the growing flow of immigrants on the islands and that they must be addressed. Unfortunately, the general responses then led to what we saw in the previous period. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think it's a serious matter. Government and Critical Opposition should see it on the basis of the national responsibility it needs. This is how we deal with it in the Democratic Reconciliation. We are putting forward proposals at all levels, in the government, in the European Union. So we will continue to operate, with the aim of really finding a solution for both refugees and immigrants and the inhabitants of our country, which of course have a specific capacity...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Theoharopoulos, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u235	...and we'll have to respect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and the n. 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 10-12/2015, criminal case law concerning the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr Nikolao Philis. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. Here we heard a racist delicacy a moment ago by the representative of the Nazi criminal organisation, the Golden Dawn, who exploits the refugee, the immigration problem and defends the females, supports the war in the region, NATO, the European Union, and the United States, and turns against the victims of imperialism. With their xenophobic and racist propaganda, they poison the working class and popular strata, hide the true tragedies and sufferings of the people, hate the refugee and the immigrant, as they hate the worker, the young woman, the poor farmer and self-employed, who fight for their right. The Greek people, the people of Europe, must combat xenophobia and racism, isolate fascists and lenders who are trying to raise their heads, oppose their own class unity and popular solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, refugee, immigration is not only a major social problem. It is a deeply political issue, due to the rotten capitalist system itself, its contradictions and dead ends. Developments in the Middle East have promoted the emergence of the refugee problem. That is why the responsibilities of all governments are enormous. They're invoking surprise to justify them. SYRIZA - ANEL Government, like the former New Democracy and PASOK, invokes the commitments that exist from Greece's participation in NATO and the European Union that has involved the country deep in the imperialist war in the region. It shall contribute to the implementation of the planning of the imperialist forces for the control of their energy and transport routes. It advertises its potential to play a wider role in the region and contributes to imperialist interventions, even if helpful. It already provides important facilities, such as the Souda bases, for the information recently agreed by the Minister of National Defence. It is well known that the statements of the old war in Iraq, 'without Greece we would not have done it'. In the wider region, imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries collide. There is a growing risk of even more general imperialist warfare, with a direct involvement of Greece. The people must be concerned and demand that every facility be stopped by the people's butchers. The question of the Members of the New Democracy - like the answers so far - did not have a single reference to the intervention of the imperialist countries in the region, to the war which is mitigating the painful effects on the peoples of the region. The issue of refugees and immigrants is raised as an autonomous problem and not as a result of the imperialist war. And that, because they support, like the government, but also the other forces outside the Communist Party of Greece, the commitment of Greece to the imperialist alliances. There is much to be said by the government, but also by other urban parties, about the multi-dimensional foreign policy, the geostrategic upgrading of the country. At the core of this policy, however, there are the interests, the pursuits of monopolies, their own upgrades. It is an extension of internal policy that serves the interests of capital against the working class and the folk. It is part of the goals of the Greek bourgeoisie for its own upgrading in the area, the greatest involvement in the interimperialist designs. Our country is known to be bordering the outbreaks of today's imperialist operations. It is a gateway to the entry of refugees and migrants and to their transit to Europe. It is suggested that our borders are not allowed to become a clear vine. You are, however, following the so-called commitments that grant sovereign rights to the European Union, NATO and, above all, sovereign rights to the Aegean. In this context, the Government implements the European Union's reactionary and dangerous decisions, which it itself signed. The Greek Government's request to FRONTEX that the Rapid Intervention Teams - the so-called RABIT - take over the sea borders in the Aegean Sea and upgrade their role at the northern border is affecting sovereign rights. It opens new and dangerous chapters in the direction pursued by the strong forces of the European Union and the Turkish civil order, for common border surveillance and the management of the Aegean. "A water strip" was described by Merkel in the Aegean, Minister! You are turning, Minister, the so-called reception centres, which operate on Aegean islands, into centres for the sorting and forced concentration of refugees and immigrants. The islands are turned into a first zone of caging and concentration, from which the most powerful countries in the European Union will choose to absorb minimum refugees, only those who need as cheap labour to enhance the profitability of their business groups. Hotspots, the upgrading of FRONTEX and the support given to the Turkish Government by the European Union and NATO are being carried out while the imperialist forces are escalating their operations in Syria with various pretexts and constantly fueling new masses of suffering the refugee flows. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has great responsibility for these options. We say that it must be condemned by the people. While the New Democracy and the PASOK, and in particular the Golden Dawn and the others, are saying "not hotspots", with the logic of creating somewhere else, as well as the commitment to a five thousand refugees' stay, but you accept, gentlemen of the New Democracy, as well as the others who are supporting the European Union's policy, the European Union and its decisions, which means repression and caging the refugees in our country. Because this policy entangles them. Our people have expressed their solidarity and position throughout this period, that they do not want our seas to drown refugees and immigrants, children and women. It rejects the country becoming a place of clandestine despair and policing by the mechanisms of the European Union, which has the first responsibility, together with the United States, for the wars and the robbery of the peoples, for the massive waves of refugees and immigrants. The JRC has taken clear positions and calls on the people to fight against the creation and functioning of hotspots, while at the same time claiming the abolition of the Dublin and Schengen Regulation to facilitate the direct safe movement of refugees and immigrants in the countries of their real destination. It also seeks to create decent and healthy temporary reception, registration and hospitality facilities, with the responsibility of the Greek authorities and not the various supported and suspected NGOs, Minister, who have become a state in the state, and which you know and what other games are played throughout this region in the name of solidarity, for managing the residence of refugees and migrants. Also, the necessary reinforcement of rescue and care-related infrastructure and personnel, especially in the winter months. We are in favour of the abolition of FRONTEX and the other repressive mechanisms of the European Union. We call on the people to defend the country's sovereign rights, in conflict with monopolies and transnational alliances, which only harm the people. Above all, we call on our people to fight to stop the imperialist interventions of the European Union, the United States, NATO and other imperialist countries and the participation of our country in war operations. We must demand it so that our country is not a war battalion, because these are the sufferings that give birth to refugees and immigrants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Before I give the floor to the next parliamentary representative, let me tell the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-seven students and students and three of their educational sessions from the Laconia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The House has the floor, Mr Fotilis, from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I intended to be particularly denounced and acid. But after the prototype of the Minister, I am no longer in that mood, and that is what I have to say to him as a small victory. One of the first questions I had asked as a Member to the then Minister of Home Affairs and the newly established Ministry of Immigration was about the government's plan on immigration and the answer I had received was that it was still in consultation and that it would be immediately ready. Ten months later, this plan is still in consultation! We all know that the issue of dealing with migration flows and also refugees is not something that has arisen over your days. For many years this issue has been pending, and indeed the New Democracy, which has also tabled the topical question, has not done much better. From 2012 to 2014 the government had committed itself to the creation of two thousand open hospitality posts at the end of 2014, Mr. New Democracy's colleague, you - you did not have a thousand ready places. Potami, from the first time he entered the House - and the refugee - immigration issue was not as acute as today - had highlighted the need for an integrated national plan to address the issue. He also stressed the need for Greece, as a country of immigration, to take concrete initiatives to highlight and internationalise the issue. We had tabled a timely question to the Prime Minister - which was not discussed - which was accompanied by concrete proposals. We have proposed the need to create a European Asylum Service to find a formula for a fair distribution of demands. Today, Minister, 60 people are serving in the Asylum Service. Do you think that's enough? We know that the government in recruitment has had other priorities, but beyond the party obligations it is important to take into account where and where the real needs of the country are concerned. And we can only ask ourselves: is the present government doing what it has achieved? After months of misfortune, misguided statements and felony movements - for which you are not personally responsible, Mr Minister, but above all your predecessor and Prime Minister, who chose and held it, and you know that political responsibilities are not retained - we have reached the point that the flows of refugees and migrants are out of control, that our country is threatened by eviction from the Schengen area and one - the European countries close their borders around us. Since Greece cannot close its borders, since most of them are marine, we are faced with becoming a store of souls, impoverished people who have no way out, either forward or backwards. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In all this, we hear that the government has agreed to the stay of fifty thousand refugees in Greece, while all the countries of the Balkan corridor to Vienna have agreed to accept fifty thousand refugees. Our country, with so many problems it faces, must host and fifty thousand refugees in addition to all illegally entering migrants and refugees' boats! Honestly, I expect to hear from the Minister responsible what exactly this agreement includes and on what terms and conditions he has accepted it. I heard some things in protology. But I would like more and more to do. Bad lies, Minister, I said again, evil started by your predecessor, but he was taking part in a government. She wasn't alone. So, as I said, the responsibility lies with the Prime Minister, who also rewarded her for her good services at the Ministry of Immigration, putting her in charge of the dominance ballot. Because, you know, Mrs Christodoulopoulos' statements for melting immigrants and at night disappear were not random. The document by Mr Nicaragua sent, and on the same day he was withdrawn from Headquarters, is, in fact, in force. You know, Mr Panousis opened up the Amygdaleza, and the government's policy, particularly during the previous period, gave the green light to local slaves to prefer our country as a gateway to the European Union. If you see the statistics of the Greek Police, in 2014, they entered our country forty thousand immigrants. And the months of January and February 2015 the course was down. Suddenly since March, there's been a launch. I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jasson Fotilas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] What happened then? The Syrian war has been under way for five years. I am not a war correspondent, but as far as I know there has been no rapid worsening of the war. On the contrary, however, there were certain statements and acts of government officials, who actually invited them to come here, because they knew they would not be arrested or deported. And, frankly, there must be a separation of refugees from immigrants and the government must also tell us whether it accepts this separation or accepts that there are no immigrants, as Mrs Christodoulopoulos said. At least I am delighted to see that you, Minister, see things differently. An important factor in this equation, refugees - migrants, it is Turkey, which not only applies, as it owes, the signed readmission protocol, but has managed to negotiate and receive three billion for refugees and to be excluded from the creation of a hotspot on its territory. And one can only wonder: what has the Greek Government negotiated and what has it achieved? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, I'm asking you a little for tolerance. So he's finally accepting refugees without money? You told us in your protology that there would be financial aid. Clearly, answer exactly what the agreement is, what we are going to win. Because if you have accepted this without a similar distribution in the other European countries, it is tragic. What commitments have we made, as a country, by the end of the year? Minister, our country has been in danger lately, and I do not know if it is still in danger of seeing the exit from Schengen. I heard in the morning the Prime Minister with a great deal of nerve denouncing some circles supposedly that would like Greece outside Schengen, when the video where he says that Greece has nothing to lose since its exit from Schengen plays on all channels. So, we're kidding each other? I'll close by asking two questions. In order to answer the questions, it is normally the Minister for Civil Protection who, in my opinion, should be here today, but I imagine that you too might be aware. I was visited in my office yesterday by representatives of the Panhellenic Federation of Border Guards, and they raised the question of the new establishment plan of the Hellenic Police, which includes the abolition of the Border Guard Agency. For those who do not know, border guards have been recommended precisely for this reason, namely dealing with the phenomenon of illegal immigration and dealing with cross-border crime. Such services operate in all the country's border counties - not to tell them all - but also in areas that accept a large number of immigrants. So the question is: Is that true? Does the government intend to abolish border control from the Special Body of the Hellenic Police and give it entirely to FRONTEX? And one final reference to the ID, in the time I have left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u240	You've exceeded time. If you're kind, please, you'll be briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u241	Just a minute. Mr President, I have no second language, as you know, and no one else speaks from my party. They've all spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u242	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u243	The Minister admitted yesterday that there is no planning for the immigrants who were taken to Taekovod and all are taking a step forward. You have stacked up for more than two thousand people on the field, about a thousand of them have departed and are already looking for alternative ways to move to Europe. I mean, go find them! You, Minister, said that on 17 December the stage should be evacuated. I imagine it will be cleaned up to surrender to the Sports Federation. But you're still not in a position, you told us to announce the next steps. Meanwhile, we had episodes in Taequivodo yesterday, a squabble of MATs took place, we were wounded. This morning, and no first news on the sites is the mayor's letter. The question, therefore, is exactly what the plan is for all those who are not refugees and who arrive by thousands in Greece. In conclusion, I would like this step forward to say a great deal of good news to the police and port staff who, with their superhuman efforts, take the country out of a white-face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr Fofila, Parliamentary spokesman from the river. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Even after many years I owe Mrs Bakoyannis a "thank you" because she was a Foreign Minister when I was in the Mediterranean, with some others, we went for humanitarian aid in the Gaza Strip and I must admit that her attitude was at least salaried for us. And I'm saying this because, adversity on these issues, I want to think that there shouldn't be one. Today's debate on opposition crowns is not available. I would like to put three - four rhetorical questions. Can the war stop right now in Syria? Because I believe it is understandable to everyone that as long as this tension continues in that country, the flows will continue. And can our country do something to stop him? Unanswered questions. The second question is: can we force Turkey to respect what it has signed? And that's one of the hard times they don't answer. The sure thing is that the country's geographical position doesn't change, that's it. That's for sure. This question is answered. I would like to say that it is a reality very hard and if I wanted to put it in a balance, if the crisis is worse or immigration, it is one of the difficult questions I cannot answer. I am very pleased, however, because I now have a man here who has known him for many years. You don't know him, I know him from the too many missions and the real solidarity he has shown when he gave it all up and went to missions. I feel sincere respect for both the way he speaks and the calmness he has. I have listened very carefully to too many positions. Some are dynamic in the climate. I shall refer again to Mrs Bakoyannis, who, with homogenous efforts, was also trying to cover extreme voices through her party. I don't know if she can, but I want to tell her they're not all the same in this House. Surely, she's making a broker speech, which she's taking care of, with suggestions, but her friendly efforts to cover others from her party, too, I think they're falling into the void. To conclude, at the moment, no matter what some colleagues have said - immigration is an issue that I believe goes beyond the limits of this country, a country in crisis. And in any event, if we weren't financially well-being, I'm afraid it's no longer our issue, but it's gone away. Some attempts are being made to show that this government is attracting immigrants in some way. Let's get this straight? Because I am among the people who want Europe with an open borders, and I would like it to be the first to what is called enlightenment, and it was the worst thing that happened in Paris, the worst thing was the collapse of the Russian plane by the polarised Turks and we see where it leads to the explosion that we have seen from the particular wing that is now no one there and I do not want to comment on it. We all know that as long as some people are desperate, while they are in some way raped, violence will bring violence. Terrorism and extreme right movements are the result of incredible continuing inequality. If you want to go in depth, will you tell me: will we now solve this problem? Oh, no. Can we solve some problems within our home? We can. I want to believe that here and if we all need to unite - and I think I have at least seen no reactions, and I welcome that positively - together with the efforts made by this government, we will unite on this issue. I have listened very carefully to your proposals. In fact, many of them are debated and I think we could see them. We're not experienced, we haven't always had these terrible flows. I think it's the first time. Mistakes have been made, omissions have been made, but I want to say half a word about a mayor, Spyros Galen. I see Mr. Athanasios is here. He is a Mayor who emerged from this story and gave the good example, not only in his place and throughout Greece, but at another level. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr. President, do I have a minute yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u247	I think we should sit down with a very good intention. I don't object either. I would like to say this: in fact, there is a difference between refugees and economic immigrants. We'll have to see that difference. There's a funding thing coming in. Do we have the money to some of them in a nice way to explain to them that we are not a Promised Land and above all to fight for no more Hungarians within the European Union? No other frightened countries, such as Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland and, above all, Hungary, which is an example of avoidance. I want to say this and end with it. It was a positive impression that the Chancellor of West Germany, who has also passed the pandemics, because it has started from East Germany, is the subject of a terrible attack on her country by circles that are more extreme within her party and above all on the far right side of Germany. And to say that the praise that the Greek Government has received lately - and it is not an exaggeration - is a reserve for the future, a positive sign that we can really survive and solve it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u248	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Association of Centres, Mr George-Dimitrios Karras, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by saying that Mr Mouszalas seems to me to be very fond of his efforts, but I must say that it is not just the Ministry of Migration Policy. It is now a matter of foreign policy, and it is also a matter of foreign policy. I was sad Mr. Xydakis left earlier, because he is dealing with the issues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And to be clearer. The Middle East is a war. The Middle East has civil wars - it is fading - and has religious wars. They extend and extend to the north of Africa. We have examples. There's a civil war in Sinai. Libya is torn apart, Mali, Niger. All that ends up? In the suburban of Europe, which is Greece today. We are afraid, therefore, that these refugee flows will be intensified, because it is a more general issue, it is a move of populations, it is a border change - if you want - a geopolitical game of enormous text, right now, and an area. But we have something unfavourable. Already Turkey, by entering into this game, has gained geopolitical and economic gains in Greece. So what does that mean? That we already have the first examples of the Aegean, a wet grave of children, minors, infants, we have the examples of Idomeni, we have a huge concentration at the border, which the government is trying to unload, but we do not know how long its tolerances will last. And where are we going? We should manage this issue. How will we manage it, ladies and gentlemen? Are we gonna handle it with voices? Are we going to manage it in opposition? Are we gonna fight each other? We suggest no. In the Central Association, we do not want to exploit this politically. He wants to stand, see his course, he wants to help as much as possible with whatever powers he has. So what do we say? We say that, on the part of international law, as Mr Papachristopoulos said, all Europe and us must work with it, towards the side of the truce in the Middle East war zone. I understand that this is a difficult point, but at least it should, through the UN - I have not heard if the Security Council has been seized, if the Security Council has united, I think we all know that it is difficult for the Security Council to take decisions - to be able to impose a truce in this area. What will it have? We are not saying that the flows will stop, but at least they will be limited. These regions will be financed by the international organizations so that these large movements can be stopped. The Centro Association sees the reasons in a humanitarian manner in this matter, which it perceives to be national. It's not a matter of small scope. There are too many other issues. And you want our opinion? This issue goes beyond the disputes of the memoranda, the economic crisis, because it is a matter of people and it is not just a question of costing it, that is how much hotspots will cost, how much IDs will cost, what revenue will be generated by the European Union. As a national, therefore, the issue must be dealt with collectively by the political forces of the country. Because I want to say something else. We already have the example of Denmark, France, which refuses to introduce a single European justice system, of the former Eastern countries that are already members of the European Union and we see a wave of Euroscepticism, which will undoubtedly affect the policies pursued by these countries, and we will undoubtedly see more of the walls, the dams that set the roads of Europe, where refugees can drive. Why? It is certain that refugees are being given immediate protection, not only from Greece but from the whole of the European Union. Of course, here I have to separate the issue of immigrants, which I must say is much thinner, perhaps even more difficult. We have a population involvement right now, and it is difficult many times to separate who are refugees and who are not. I heard this morning - or on radio or television, I did not think - that those who returned from Idomenos are tearing up their papers - is an old technique - and they are back in Lesvos, Kos, and I don't know where else, trying to get new papers and get refugee status. I have heard - I do not know if it is true - that the Assad regime, the basalist party in Syria, is already supplying Syrian passports, for remuneration, many other non-Syrians, so that they can move to Europe, to put pressure on Europe by the number that will be moved to maintain the Assad regime. But it's also a source of enrichment of the circuits in the area there. Mrs. Bakoyannis, I think you're disagreeing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u250	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u251	So forgive me. So there are toys, which I say are above Greece. What's my proposal right now? There can be one and only. To unite the political forces, to move out on a common line, not only in the European Union, but also in the UN. Because, as I said, all this is beyond the memos and we cannot stand, beyond the economic crisis, and the big issue of immigration. We should therefore be able to achieve something on these points. We do not feel that there can be an absolute solution. But we are proposing something else in the middle of time. I heard. It was said from all the wings. What was said? Activating the municipalities. We see that the municipalities are starting to make an effort. We see the regions trying to deal with the situation as well. It is not enough, however, for these initiatives to be coordinated. The Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Immigration must start to give local and regional authorities the opportunity to move in this direction. I do not yet have such information, information, if there is indeed a coordinated policy in this direction. Why? Because at the end of the day, we will have the migrants left here, and we will not be able to manage them. Because their number will be growing. The refugee girl will at some point be treated, even with many difficulties, even with many sacrifices both from Greece and the European people. But we'll have a large number left, which won't be manageable. We must therefore consider that we want to help, but then the democratic principles, not only of Greece, but also of the Europeans, will be shaken. Because these people will not be able to have care, they will not be able to have protection, they will not be able to have family life. We therefore call, in this direction, for a single policy of the parties, particularly the New Democracy and SYRIZA. We have heard various divergent views, but we see that in the composition they can coexist. That is what I have come out of this debate today. I may be wrong, but I want to believe that this will come about at the end because of the scale of the problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall say something, Mr President, and I shall end. I would like to point out this: we still have an anachronistic legislation. We are applying the 2008 Asylum Directive. We have the 2011 Act on the Establishment of the Asylum and First Reception Service and we are trying to deal with these issues with ministerial decisions. Perhaps there is the hotspot issue, because there are the islands' reactions, there are the mayors' reactions, as much as the Prime Minister said, that these reactions are potentially limited or even motivated. There will be reactions to local populations. Because they are under pressure from the number of refugees and immigrants. So, in the sense that we should also call on the Government and the Opposition to work in a modern'short need' legislation, I would call it, even if you do not like the expression - because I believe that we should have legislative acts, even if I have built up this policy, which was a group in the previous period - to find a solution. Finally, I would like to refer to the timely question...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u252	But please complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, I am the last. At least they're listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u254	We have another process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u255	I shall also refer to the timely question by the President, Vassilis Leventis, who discussed the hotspot issue in the following sense: there must be somewhere. I don't know where. Maybe in the mainland or in the island country. It doesn't matter. But do not make permanent establishments of those passing through. Because, if they become permanent establishments of those passing through, then they will no longer be able to come and move up and there the number of refugees and migrants in particular will be suffocating and ultimately unmanageable. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Centro Association. We ask the honourable Members who, of course, have exhausted the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u257	We're not exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u258	I've kept time, as the Services gave them up. Mr. Consola, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President, and your understanding. Following Mr Carras' reference, let me put in the Minutes an electronic press post - many, of course - where the view of the mayors of Athens shows that the hosting places have become permanent establishments now of illegal immigrants. So this is in relation to seeing reality and not acting activists in relation to the reference of course made by the Minister, but also by the Prime Minister this morning. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Mr President, the feelings of solidarity between the Greeks are evident and have been captured from the north to the south. For Europe's solidarity, however, we have many questions. And that's because we see the fences rise every day. It is therefore, given the situation in Europe, because it accumulates in the Idolised world, that they return to Athens. On 17 December, Taekovod closes, even with the Minister's statement. What's going to happen from there? In relation to the negative attitude of the government towards the relaunch, we want to bring back what Mrs Bakoyannis has said. What happened in Turkey on 25 October? Is there a commitment or has there been made? I shall conclude with a reference to non-governmental organisations: we are waiting for the answer, Minister. There are non-governmental organisations that really offer huge social work. However, there are also non-governmental organisations, especially in our area that act uncontrolledly. In fact, they have seen the light of publicity of decisions by non-governmental organisations to share beaches. It's not a humiliating image, but it's getting dangerous. Here, we may agree that an extraordinary plan may be needed to deal with these problems. The season is before the gates. I refer to and repeat for the tourist season. I am pleased that Mrs Catrivanou disagrees that Mrs Kundura has become a socialist of these problems in England. But the numbers speak unnoticedly. At the moment, Minister, and you know that, I know you are aware of it - it is on hold for international agencies which are traveling tourists and are waiting to see what will happen with the government's decisions to see if the slots - flights - are to be reduced to the islands or not. Kos is a fourth tourist destination. We can't play any more. You also know the decisions taken by tourist players. We therefore call for the establishment of handling centres rather than detention centres, short stays and for the government to make sure that it makes every effort to get refugees out there, immigrants in less than forty-eight hours, as the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr. Consola. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am pleased that we have put a separate line today on what'refugee' means and what 'immigrant' in the sense of the illegal. We referred to security. You have rightly stressed that our borders remain and that they should be kept, that is, we have the fence in Evros. Of course, Mrs Catrivanu was where, with her presence, she strengthened voices to drop the fence. The question, however, is whether there is any attempt to break guard, should we not take action?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u262	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u263	I'm saying if anyone goes to break guarding, illegally entering, don't we have to take action?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u264	What kind of measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u265	At the border.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u266	To the sea?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u267	For the sea, since we have discovered that there are also borders at sea, we note that our proposal is that there should be a European coastguard, because we will be able to deal with this, because the borders of Greece are Europe's borders. Preparatory centres for the identification of illegal persons must exist. They were created with the European Community's money. He's in eastern Macedonia, Paradesti. It has a thousand five hundred seats, it's a model center, and you've booked it. It's a matter. As far as the managing authority is concerned, there must be, because where will they be taken with the accommodation programmes, with the rental subsidy programme? There should also be management studies, send them, approve them, and take the money. These are all issues that have not been answered. With regard to repatriation, you mentioned that in 2014 we had 11 to 11.5 thousand, in 2015 ten thousand three hundred. Yes, but last year we had forty thousand immigrants - let us say it - illegal and not so many people this year. And I come to the Dublin II Treaty and to whether it will be applied from the beginning of the year. We have not received an answer and we have the question of returning from the other countries in Europe to this large number. Are we prepared, precisely to deal with this issue? I am very pleased that there is a voice of reality from you and its acceptance. You don't adopt lies. You're actually here, but there's also a deep party of SYRIZA that, if you want, somehow creates a confusion. We come and accept your voice and effort, which we too will support from our point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Mr. Athanasios, I don't know if you want to, but you've surpassed all times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u269	I'm covered, Mr. President. I'll only need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u270	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u271	First of all, I would like to stress that there are two different issues of humanitarian aid and humanity, which we must have towards illegal immigrants - people too, it does not matter - and the refugees from the issue of the problems that have arisen in our country and especially in the islands. Therefore, I must stress here, especially for Lesvos, that all Greeks, but especially the Lesbians, do not possess either xenophobia or racism. So I must stress this and I will all assure you and I can also assure Parliament and the Minister can tell you how humane treatment of immigrants we have used. Minister, you did not answer two questions: the first was the questions I asked about NGOs operating in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u272	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u273	If you're kind enough to answer. There is also information that there are two or three NGOs on the islands, especially in Lesvos, who provide services only to Muslims. I don't know if you're aware of this. And the second question is that, as you know, the Commissioner for Health has recently visited Lesvos, Mr Andrews, who finally sent a letter to the College of Commissioners and discredits Lesvos in the worst way, after so many efforts and practical solidarity we have with immigrants. I would like to know with what critical factors the Commissioner has met in Lesvos, and what if you, as a government, as a government minister, called for responsibility for this unfair attack that my country has taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mrs. Bakoyannis, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u275	After the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u276	After the Minister. Very good. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u277	For ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u278	That is how time has been set.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u279	Forgive me, but I'll speak much less. Politically, the way I speak politically, I spoke before. I won't make criticisms. It is not necessary for all of us to have the same conclusions. I think something has come out of this conversation. I just want to point out a few things: Firstly, on FRONTEX. We want FRONTEX, but we want it under the FRONTEX Regulation and efforts are always made by some Member States to change the FRONTEX Regulation. In Skopje they wanted us to have Macedonian border observers. Fortunately, Mr Avramopoulos received our letter and acted. And now, Mrs Bakoyannis, this proposal made by the Council of FRONTEX to act autonomously, we have again sent a letter to the Commissioner. We are waiting for the answer, and I am sure the Commissioner will act. With regard to flows, we, ladies and gentlemen, do not control them. The door is Turkey and we're the hallway. We do not control them, so Europe does not control them. As long as Europe does not control them, the problem cannot be solved. That is why he is in Turkey. Why do we have an increase in May? It is presented, you know, an argument - let's say - that it has always been like that. It's obvious it wasn't always like that. In May there was an increase compared to the three or four previous months of the order of 300-400%. What's happened? The money paid by the United Nations Organization to camps in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey was dropped. That's evidence. Fifty cents a day came and the schools closed. They started to leave, not only from Turkey, but all three camps. In June Aleppo was bombed and the crisis arrived. There are objective conditions behind things. It is not, in other words, that a meesine, Muzalas, came out and said "Children, we all go to Greece" and go. Greece geographically is what it is and we cannot change it. And at the border - I repeat - we cannot stir up and prevent. If you see the streams, you will understand that the increase in flows has nothing to do with the identification centres. The increase in flows creates identification centres and not identification centres the increase in flows. If anyone sees this without claws, it's math, it's registered! With regard to Eurodac and identification, it is true - and I have said so, both in the European Union and here - that at first sight we have had very great difficulties. But, ladies and gentlemen, at first we had twenty Eurodac. After four months, when I took over, Minister, we still had thirty-six, and we got there fifty a month ago. Each Eurodac can record on a 24-hour basis a hundred people. We need a hundred and now we have fifty. It's not negligent. We have a huge improvement, which again follows mathematical and human effort rules - and indeed our policemen have been exterminated - to better recording. For the 'Return' programmes, I did not mean that it was nine thousand of them from over nine thousand of them. I meant that you, like us, have experienced inefficiency, that is that you make nine thousand demands and they approve you forty-eight. That's what I wanted to say. I have a deep knowledge that there are other flows now and others then. But even a hundred thousand demands to have been made now, ten thousand requests would have been accepted. And you know that. So I don't think he's standing. Mr. Athanasios, where we are compatriots, you are right about the disasters in the fields. It is a position - and the government believes - that if you do not want to let xenophobia and racism go sit on people, you must ease the burden that all this refugee current creates on people's daily lives. Life will never be the same. We're living historical times. We're living the story. What can we do? However, one must alleviate. So you're right. There have been the disasters, and I do not claim that, because some have rented their fields and are scared, that changes something or is an argument, etc. I would like to say to you that we are asking a body - I signed it - which controls these things - for forgive me, I do not know what the arctics are - to go geopolitics to see the damage. As far as the NGOs are concerned, you are absolutely right. I would not generally say the NGOs, but the way in which voluntary work and humanitarian aid are carried out is now problematic or - I would say otherwise - has problems. You're absolutely right. It's a great concern to me. I have spoken - and you can confirm this - with the President of the Mytilini Medical Association, with the President of the Doctors of the Mytilini Hospital, with the Police and the Port. The Department of Health makes an effort tomorrow, along with my Ministry, to see what's going on. In the next fortnight I or my colleagues - I will try to be me - will be in Mytilini to start intervening. You're right. It's not a theoretical matter. It is practically difficult to act, and, in my view, in a favoured state cannot anyone who wants to wear an acoustic and go to do the doctor or take a lifeboat and make the lifeguard. I don't know if we're gonna make it. He needs a cure. We'll try. What can I tell you about Turkey? Neither the Prime Minister nor I are happy. It's a dynamic. We might lose, we might win. Obviously, we must play in it, with the seriousness of it. He can't stay out. He must as much pressure as he can. And I don't think anyone disagrees with that. As far as the financial situation is concerned, I shall submit the papers on the Management Committee and so on. It's done, it's stationed, and the disbursement's started. It's written. You can get it from the Minutes. As far as Schengen is concerned, our position is: more Schengen, an effort for more Schengen. As far as the European Coast Guard is concerned, that was also our request. I would like to tell you that I agree with too much, and I disagree very much. But I also wanted to say this: Mrs Bakoyannis said something that we all have to take seriously, that the refugee has an internal and an external dimension. We must take this very seriously. If the squeeze takes place in the inner dimension, all right. If the squeeze on the internal dimension takes place on the external dimension, it will probably be a major problem. Therefore, I will agree - and I do not think anyone will disagree - that it wants a very good balance on these things, understanding the importance of the external dimension. I think I've covered it. I don't think I need to talk again unless I'm asked to answer something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Muzala. Mrs Bakoyannis, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u281	Minister, I think it was a useful debate and a necessary question from the New Democracy. I am pleased that the government has responded, even too lately. I do not think this will be overthrown because we have a future ahead of us. I think, however, that it was useful to present the views and colleagues who are experiencing the problem in their regions every day, such as Mr Consolas from the Dodecanese. And I think we have agreed that the need for cooperation, particularly with the first and second degrees of self-government, is now too great. The New Democracy will monitor the implementation very closely, not to move the finger on the government - nor do we have any such attitude to such a problem - but to emphasize the shortcomings in the Government's efforts to adapt to reality and to address the difficulties that are presented. But because the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs is missing - and I am sorry that he is missing, because it is not about you, but I would like to say, even about the Minutes and to listen to the Greek people: there are two commitments you have made. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should have informed you that at Leaders' Statement about Western Balkans, at which you were also meeting, there are two phrases that are open to interpretations. One sentence relates to Turkey and says: "Making full use of the positive of the EU - Turkey reading agreement and the visaliberalization". What does that mean, practically? It means that the time in which Turkey is committed to accepting readmission is linked to the time that the European Union is going to go forward with visa liberalization. Perhaps yesterday Mr Xydakis spoke about June. But if it is June, Minister, then it is too late. Too late! And that needs very clear treatment on the next board you will have, because unfortunately, the writings remain behind the writings and the diplomats - I mean the Turkish diplomats - and they use this agreement, which Greece has signed, so that they do not move from there and beyond readmission. You said a very good word before about FRONTEX and I agree. However, the paper that the government has signed here reads as follows: ‘Strenngthening the Frontex Western Balkans Risk Analysis Network with intensified reporting from all parties’. From all parties means Skopje together. That's what it means. And it's very difficult after someone comes out and says she's got a different interpretation. I repeat, diplomacy is a difficult task. It is good that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs realizes that it has to support you in this effort. It is not possible for the Ministry of Immigration to have neither the know-how of wording nor, if you like, the opportunity to understand where the party and the perfection lead to it. The New Democracy does not want to make a big deal of it right now, and as you can see, I tell you only to watch what is waiting for us in the future. Because, indeed, on the issues raised by us, as far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, we have not received any response yesterday or even today. We have received the answers from you, as far as the refugee issue is concerned, but as far as foreign policy issues are concerned, there has been a 'violence of radio', as some people have said. Let me repeat now that it is of great importance, Minister, to send out the message to our islands that these centres will indeed be centres of minimum residence. You understand that, and I understand that, of course, where they arrive, these hotspots are following the flow. Of course you're absolutely right about that. It is simply true, too, that people are afraid that these centres can be permanent. So, your explicit today's assurance that this will be a forty-eight-hour mastery, I think it will reassure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u282	Seventy-two hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u283	All right, seventy-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u284	The Prime Minister said forty-eight hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u285	Well, the Prime Minister said forty-eight. I accept both seventy-two, Minister. Twenty-four, I'd like to. But there we must finish, because this will be followed very closely, because it is important. Without local societies, it is impossible to deal with problems. So, Minister, I wish you success in your work. I imagine that all colleagues, from all sides of the House, sent the message that refugee is not a matter of party controversy, but a matter of national concern. You simply have to bear in mind that administrative deficiencies are too many and will need to be tackled very quickly if we do not want to be faced with major problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mrs Bakoyannis. Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u287	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u288	Good. Therefore, the debate on the number 1/2-11-2015 topical question of twenty Members of the New Democracy to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Foreign Affairs on the immediate treatment of the immigration-refugee problem is concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-11-S1-commons.u289	With the agreement of the House at 16.55 p.m., the sitting on Monday, December 14, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the topical and urgent debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
