ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS You will allow me, in accordance with the President's mandate, to announce today's timely questions which will not be discussed by the ministers. The second question under number 325/9-6-2015, first question by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the completion of the project on the "MOREA" motorway. The third, with number 319/8-6-2015, timely question for the first cycle of the Member of the Eotolocarnania People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the operation of a new toll station in the bypass of Agrinio. The fifth, under number 316/8-6-2015, top-level question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure that are incompatible with human rights. The first, with number 326/9-6-2015, topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Grassaki, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the completion of the vertical Egnatia Road route in Evros. The third, with number 289/29-5-2015, topical question of the second question of the Achaea MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Michael Arvanitis to the Minister of National Defence, concerning Turkish air space violations and Greek territorial waters. The fourth under number 219/14-5-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the provocative action of Macedonians in Florina. The fifth, under No. 234/18-5-2015, topical question of the Attica MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on bilateral relations with neighbouring countries and the proclamation of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. The sixth question under number 168/28-4-2015 is the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of the name of Macedonia to the scouts". The seventh under number 287/29-5-2015 topical question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of National Defence on the reopening of the ELECTROMAN KYPE plant, its integration into the administrative structure of the Ministry of National Defence and the reopening of the local economy. The first question with number 2058-27-2015 by Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of Parliament I of the New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning measures to address the problems arising from the maintenance of the OSCE buses. The second, with number 1642/8-4-2015, question by Vice President of Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the procedure for licensing outdoor parking in the historic centre of Athens. The third question with number 1116/24-3-2015 question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, about the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "AYDINLIK" that "Turkey proceeded with the establishment of a committee for the vindication of sixteen Greek islands". Because you have heard many times the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Economy is here, I would like to say that we are talking about Deputy Ministers, but this is how the question report should be written. They do not, therefore, concern Mr Stathakis. So we begin with our first question under number 322-9-6-2015, first question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on initiatives by farmers - producers known as "Businesses Without Media". The Minister will answer Mr. George Stathakis. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the 'Shops Without Mediators' numbered around three years. He's a child of judgment. They were born through awareness of the power of producers and consumers. It was the self-defense of the resentment and living society, which it found, as its income was levelled, that it should react against speculation and shameful speculation. It should have reacted to the famous prices from the field on the shelf, which were three to five times over, at the same time that if the producer had received a deposit and then a check, it would have to be paid in six to eight months, accepting the blackmail of intermediaries, wholesalers, retailers, etc. On the other hand, the consumer, who watched the producer complain because the price of his product was very low, paid the products at a price of three and five times the price. At the poverty line is about six million Greeks, as the report of the Parliament's Budget Office says. Two and a half million Greeks are in poverty and three million eight hundred thousands of citizens are directly threatened by poverty on the basis of the figures of the House of Parliament of September 2014. Thus, hundreds of thousands of people from passive viewers of the period of molding consumer bliss were turned into protagonists, socialists and partners of a new solidarity, which applies the rules of fair profit and of the solidarity economy. They took the case in their hands, mobilised, self-organized, braked in the hands that opened their wallet as consumers or turned into quasi-minor partners as co-producers of goods for which they obviously did not sweat. What have these actions achieved? Innovative measures for the Greek data initiative for the direct disposal of agricultural products by producers to consumers is a marketing system in which producers have their products to consumers without any brokering of any marketing agency that evacuates product prices at the height of the level. They are the benefits of the operation of these social markets with a focus on human beings, but without the incriminating of fair, fair profit: firstly, ensuring fair and not simply cheap price and improving the financial situation of producers. Secondly, cheap and quality products for consumers, so access to the market for basic consumer goods such as potatoes, rice, legumes, fruits, vegetables, cheese, oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u3	Get to the question, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u4	At the same time, benefits: Contribution and encouragement of producers and consumers to the creation of cooperatives, free disposal of products to be tested by the crisis, memorandums and other cut measures, demand for health checks. I am going beyond the benefits for the producer, the consumer and the national economy. This movement, Minister, mobilized, as you know, thousands of people in the province and the large urban centres, forced them to deal with the sociologists and turned the lights on him. However, while in the last three years the "Purchasing Without Mediators" have been extended and operated throughout the country, unfortunately, with our Government, the SYRIZA Government, in the past two months, we have witnessed these markets following complaints to be treated by police authorities as an impediment, with all the negative consequences of the law on these cases. Recent examples have been found in the Municipality of Kalamaria in Thessaloniki and in the Municipality of Glyfada in Athens. So the questions, Mr Minister, which I will develop in my dentistry, are clear: First, is there any intention of the Ministry to create that necessary legislative canvas that will enable these people not to be treated in this way and not to face the risk of excessive fines? Secondly, will there be care for these markets to be addressed with the necessary tax requirements and the necessary quality control of the products offered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Triantafylides, for the timely question. It is our belief - and I fully share all your comments - that, in the midst of Greece with the deep social crisis, the solidarity networks developed in the so-called 'Miscellaneous Markets', were an essential mechanism for alleviating the interests of producers and creating strong solidarity mechanisms. On the other hand, as you know, the existing legislative framework is a framework which primarily defines how the people's markets operate, in which there is generally direct access to it, as well as additional provisions relating to the operation under the supervision of the municipalities and regions responsible for these activities. Today there is additional legislation, which has not yet been activated and will be activated by our own government. I am referring to No 4235/2014, Article 56, which for the first time provides for the possibility of establishing producers' markets - farmers' markets - apart from urban centres or in rural areas, where producers can place their products directly on the public, while strengthening the local economy. There is a gap - it is a given one - and you are right that it should be covered so that these institutions can have a time span. There must be a legislative initiative, which will ensure the smooth functioning of these initiatives, the certification of their products and the adoption of the envisaged tax documents. This is a complement to the legislation in force. And I am pleased that the present government will take the initiative to normalise this dimension and to activate the mechanism of the producer markets, the Farmers' Markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for your dentistry. This time, don't exploit our friendship!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to say that on the basis of statements and communications from police intervention, we did not only have in Calamaria. We had at Glyfada, here in Athens, but also in Thessaloniki, at the Vineyards, Toumba, at the Ivanofio Sports Center, where it operated a model "Buy Without Messianis" under the honorary Professor Marketing of Agricultural Products Mr Christos Kamenides. I shall, in fact, submit to the minutes and opinions of his own on the basic principles which must govern them, as well as the letters he has sent to the Ministers, Mr Apostlelos, Mr Sguridis and others. All the producers participating, Michalis Panagiotides from Kalamaria's Market Without Intermediates, are licensed on a planet, have an AOC declaration, are registered in the Farmers' Register, have cash machines and their products are controlled. It's a very fresh story. I just did it yesterday, talking to all the producers. However, the public prosecutors and police authorities rely on the fact that producers cannot trade on a stand-alone basis and that is where the limits of their legality are exhausted by prohibiting the purchases in question, by reference to Article 25 of the Law. 4224, by which it is not permitted to engage in travellers with a population of more than three thousand. I would say, Minister, that it is a very important element of refreshing and living society that we have productive and consumer cooperatives. It's a model that we wholeheartedly support. They are citizens who are not passive to the choices of brokers and wholesalers, but they really take their luck. Perhaps in this sense and on the basis of the European model - we have such examples, such as the 'In Concerto' in Kastelflanko Veneto, in north-west Italy, we have, respectively, in Almeria, I am not talking about anarcho-communist cases, I am talking about the European model of organising producer and consumer cooperatives - we have to see how through public cooperatives - that is, the municipalities as connectors that are coming and rewarding producers in a completely clear, transparent environment in terms of quality, in terms of taxation - these productive and consumer cooperatives can be deepened and consolidated. Let us say that 70% of consumption in our neighbouring Italy is through such productive and consumer cooperatives. We also have the case of the Mondragon cooperative. To say here, by ending and closing, Minister, that perhaps it would be necessary - I will submit to the Minutes the relevant reports, as I have said - because there is this mood from all over the world that has been on the Internet for three years, bringing together the citizens in this process, and we must not discourage them, this six-monthly launch a great dialogue under your own ministerial decision, which will be the background, so that after a complaint by a professional association, the police forces do not go - and they are intervening and collecting this world and imposing fines of 5,000 euros. In other words, with a ministerial decision to give a six-month measure and within this six-month period a thorough, rich dialogue, with the participation of all the reasonings, all the actors, the whole of European knowledge, which will give a distillate of genuinely stimulus to the social economy and the productive cooperatives and consumer cooperatives, so that - a posteriograph - demolition of the concept of cooperative, because where Greek citizens are listening to 'cooperative', they are spontaneously thinking that scandals are falling like hail, etc. We must disintegrate this process. And I think that this world can be a protagonist in this canvas that I just described you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u10	You know that the existing law distinguishes two categories of trade: firstly, the people's markets, on which producers have access, and which have a predetermined mode of operation, days, place, specific surveillance by the municipality and, of course, a decision from the region. Secondly, planetary trade, which cannot really be static, cannot be spaced somewhere. As you know, there is a large number of problems not only in these types of markets, in the 'Miscellaneous Markets', which are also static, but also in many other cases, such as markets that leap around the stadiums and many others, which have a huge problem, because the world trade legislation has specific features that only allow a process of'mobility' to exist. There is therefore this division in the legislation in force. This division obviously seeks competitive interests to mobilise, in order to view these markets as infringing the Global Trade Act. We are aware of this. I have the impression, however, that this problem is not solved, only when there is a wider dialogue with the people's markets and with the municipalities and regions, in order to have legislation, since the whole legislative framework in force is not corrected by ministerial decisions, but requires legislative initiative. We must make this dialogue honestly, directly and without any restriction, in order to find an excellent solution on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. We are going to the next topical question, the sixth Question No 315/8-6-2015, the first time a question from the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Minister for Economic Affairs, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the progress of PPP contracts (public-private partnerships) for the management of waste. The wishes of the Bureau and the House to your new President, Mr Constantopoulos. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u12	Minister, it is well known that Greece is classified in the last positions between the European Union countries in the field of urban waste treatment due to the operation of CSR. The consequences for the environment, public health, agriculture and tourism are obvious and well known to everyone, which is why a fine has been imposed in the country, which is running in an extremely difficult economic situation for our country. While the regions and the VETSA - which are the authorities responsible for the temporary storage, transhipment, recovery and disposal of solid waste - have taken initiatives to provide a solution, today the government is freezing them all. In other words, while international competitions were launched, exploiting the PPP institution, and the contractors were raised in most cases and the licensing and funding procedures have been completed, the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy comes in and is changing direction. So I wonder why, although the only thing left is to symbolize projects and to start construction, last week the Deputy Minister, Mr. Tsironis, answered the same question by dismantling the PPP institution for the waste management projects, even for what had or had already been approved for their funding. Let me stress here that the experience of other PPP countries shows that such partnerships are a valuable tool for these countries. So I ask you: what stage are the PPPs currently in place for waste management? What is the government's position on the projects? Please give us clear answers. What is the Commission's position on the progress of projects as well as on the allocation of these subsidies? Is there a time risk of loss of subsidies? What stage, then, is the closure and restoration of CSEs and what is the government's overall planning, in this case, in terms of the level of investment, the benefits and jobs for waste management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u14	I share your view that the country has a huge delay in the management of waste and the previous governments have felt that the solution to this problem is to develop through large-scale PPP programmes as a rule, one in each region of the country, which would address the problem of waste management. We have been critical of these plans from the outset for three main reasons: the first is because we thought that waste was to be managed on a more decentralised basis than on one unit per region. Secondly, the conditions surrounding these tenders concerning the PPPs offered high public guarantees and possibly, by some, high management costs. The third reason is that we thought that Greece had alternatives to the design, which had not been properly examined. What the current government is doing is to start from the third point of view. National waste management planning is currently in consultation, which sets a new framework, which will define the waste management policy in the coming years. As you know, this results in regional planning, since the regions are responsible for this and not the government. The government defines national planning and hence the regions define all the issues relating to waste management. Regional planning must therefore follow the new national planning, so the necessary adjustments must be made. From there on, the way in which each region will proceed with the management of waste, whether it will do so by PPP or by an inter-public undertaking or by any other form of company, cooperative or otherwise, is its sole competence. With regard to existing PPPs, there are the mature projects. One was the overtime project, that is, what was involved in the West Macedonia PPP, which had guaranteed funding - not a subsidy - from the European Investment Bank. I personally signed the contract for this project on behalf of the Government. However, all other PPPs should be included in the new national planning. So, as it is, it is very likely - and this will be decided on the path by the regions and new plans - that these pharaonic PPPs should be adapted. It is at an early stage all or at a second stage, and from there on it is a matter of the regions, how you will adapt the designs and what options they will make for waste management.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u16	Minister, thank you for your reply. Unfortunately, however, we are witnessing a division between the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Economy and Infrastructure. You, Minister, approve the contracts for the Integrated Management and Control System of the Region of Western Macedonia, and Mr. Tsironis answers at the Technical Chamber's event that he respects the signature, but is outside the planning of the Government. The conclusions of yours. And you, in order to avoid - obviously - further controversy, point out - and I do read your statement - the following: "The implementation of the remaining urban waste management projects designed as PPP will proceed in line with their harmonisation with the strategic guidelines and objectives set by the new National Waste Management Plan, which has been established and consulted by the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy." Well, Minister, don't you have a joint plan for such a crucial issue? Do you think the state should not keep up? Because if the projects already planned within the period or within the planned timetable are not completed, the cost will be paid by the Greek people in their pockets. So you do not defend the interest of the Greek citizen, nor do you thus ensure a climate of confidence and stability, in order to attract investment to the country, which we need. The European Commissioner for Regional Policies Crete and PPP is in favour of the PPPs. It supports publicly - in the context of similar projects in Poland - that the private and public partnership is beneficial for improving the quality of life of citizens and, instead of the government getting the message and promoting partnerships, it whistles indifferently. What you show to the Greek people is that you face the state as a party spoil, that you are divided into the components and culture that each bears. A lot of questions. The conclusions, as I have said before, are yours. However, we are waiting for answers. The National Waste Management Plan has been consulted for ten days. You know very well that the ten days are too little time on such a big issue. Do you think that it is sufficient time to place and consult stakeholders? That is why, Minister, I have to say that you are spreading insecurity. You're flirting with the rupture, for which you don't have the popular command. However, the Greek people do not want to live in a country in the European margin, nor do they want to live in absolute poverty, impoverishment, misery after five whole years of sacrifice. As far as you are concerned or not are concerned, I think that we have repeatedly said that each government is a continuation of the previous government, with what that implies. That is why I am very afraid that in all fields you have absolutely no plan. I hope, however, that you have a patriotic conscience - and I mean it - in order to avoid the worst that the Greek people seem to be coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u17	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Constantopoulos, I'm trying to figure out where you're criticizing us. Firstly, the national planning promoted by Mr. Tsironis harmonizes the country's national planning with the European Waste Management Directives. It's very clear. It adapts, modernises, creates a regulatory framework, harmonising it with what is happening in other European countries. You forsake us for that? Secondly, with regard to the continuation or non-continuation of the state, I told you that in the case of an integrated project, which indeed had committed resources from the European Investment Bank for the current year - we respected this process, regardless of whether we agree or disagree with it. The third issue is our policy, which must be a long-term horizon, because the issue of waste management is a long-term horizon. The plans - I repeat - should be adapted in the light of the new European and national context. This will make things easier, will facilitate the triple objectives set by European policy. I would remind you that three are the goals. Firstly, the minimisation of garbage production. That is what the national planning we have proposed does. Secondly, the highest possible rate of recycling. Thirdly, minimising the cost of transport and waste management. This new spirit of the three objectives made national planning on this subject. From there on, I can assure you once again that the regions will decide in what kind of business this will be done. It is not a question of the government whether they will choose the first, the second or the third form. I, as you know, come from Chania, where we've done a groundbreaking job ten years ago. So I am fully aware of both the pros and the anti-texts, which has now been recorded as one of the positive models in the country and is also in line with the aims - I repeat - of a future design, which would have increasingly such characteristics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u19	We enter Mr. Cassidy's timely question and follow Mrs. Tahiau's question to Mr. Dritsa. The second question, then, will be discussed at number 321/8-6-2015, on the second question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the NRP's programmes. The Minister will answer Mr. Stathakis. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. Our topical question concerns the funds from the NSRP and, as you can see in the title, in the matter of the question, we divide it into two sections. Firstly, with regard to the provocative favor of large players in the country's economic life. Because we saw this terrible phenomenon: While, as we know very well, the funds of the NRP had to go to new innovative technologies and to production, so that our country finally started to produce, the majority of them went to making roads, to public works, involving consortia of well-known players in economic life. We call names. It is the 'TERNA' operation, the Peristeri operation, is the operations of Mr Bobola, which is also involved in large channels. They're big capitalists who took all that money, which they didn't use. As you know, the country has dried out of fluid. There is nothing on the market, and yet this money from the ESRB, which is essential for the country to move at last, the country has been consumed, given its satisfaction, I would say, to major players in economic life, and we have made roads. And what happened to making streets? Now everyone throughout the world is talking about what will happen in the event of Greek bankruptcy. We say that in such a case, our country produces absolutely nothing, so it is impossible to survive. That's why we're stuck in the size of international loan sharks. There is no answer to that question. The second part of our topical question, to which I shall extend to my dentistry, is what design is there for economic development. Even though legality is at last being imposed and this money from the ESRB is not going to the big capital, to the great interests. Assuming that they are going to a good end, innovative technologies, production. What design is there on your side, if this fair distribution of the funds of the NSRF is to finally start moving the production machine in Greece, there is real productive reconstruction in Greece? Thank you. I look forward to your answers so that political dialogue can be fruitful in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u22	I think we all recognize that we are in a transitional year. The NRV of the previous period ends until the end of 2015 and as of June 2015 starts the next NRV, for the period 2014-2020. As to how the previous NSRP planned, it is known that it has placed too much emphasis on major projects. He pledged huge resources of the ESRB in these projects, which were then bankrupt in the midst of the crisis. With the revision of the contracts last year by the previous government, these projects are expected to be completed by the end of 2016 and, in fact, the continuation of these projects to the next ESRB has already committed part of the resources, certainly, what is envisaged for infrastructure projects. On this point, what the government is trying to do is to ensure, as projects will obviously be completed under the circumstances, a way in which these projects will continue either from new financial resources from the European Investment Bank or from elsewhere. We are looking for an excellent solution in order to liberate the next NSRF and to enable the next NSRF to plan - what we want as a government - small and medium-scale projects, compatible with the productive reconstruction of the economy. The second element is that the next NSRF of 2014-2020 has enormous potential, precisely because it underestimates major projects. It does three things the new NSRF, which is a little more compatible with what we have in mind: Firstly, it strengthens the small and medium-sized scales more than the large ones. This creates a better flexibility for our designs. Secondly, it gives a great deal of power and resource management to the regions vis-à-vis the central state. And that is good, because regions will better plan interventions in relation to the local economy. The third is that it creates an environment for integration of projects that are more environmentally friendly. Our strategy is clear. We want economic development with social justice. We therefore want to strengthen, in particular, the small and medium-sized enterprises, a shift in innovation and domestic added value, and the domestic production and exploitation of the enormous capacity of our country's human resources, our young people, that is, who, as you know, are a high level of education and are an excellent human resource. At the expense of these authorities, under the criteria of these principles, the new designs to be carried out by the administrative structures of ministries, regions and the integration of the new programmes from June onwards will have this spirit, which I have just developed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, before I move on to my dentistry, I would like to address you and raise a major issue. I would like to ask the Bureau when this paradox will finally be stopped. In other words, I am allowed today to come from prison to ask a timely question, and I am not allowed to remain in Parliament to participate in the legislative work of this House. In simple terms, the popular sovereignty, which here in this House wants particular MPs, elected by the people, to give the present and legislate, has literally been violated. I address you, therefore, because last time, as you well remember, my immunity had been waived. I came here to talk to a bill and the Guardian came to our office and said to me: "Keep down in the basement to get you the Transition Team to take you to jail and don't talk."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u25	Good. Go on to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u26	Yeah, but I'm waiting for your answer. I have no room for answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u27	Don't take advantage of my kindness.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u28	I will move on to the question, because it is very important for our national issues, but I expect you to give an answer, because I have no room afterwards. I'll go inside later. When am I going to raise this issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Cassidy, it's not the Bureau's job.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u30	The President of Parliament said that it was illegal for the bills that were passed without the three hundred MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u31	Excuse me. Go on to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u32	I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u33	You know that last time I showed a lot of flexibility because it happened and I was presiding and speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u34	With the Guardian behind me, to have my tail turned into, and to wait for when I'll have handcuffs to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u35	I'm the one talking. I mean flexicurity inside the hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u36	If that is what you consider to be a democracy, Mr President, I think you are making fun of us. I'm on my way now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u37	The rest is not the job of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u38	It's not the Bureau's job? What are you talking about? Is it not the Bureau's job whether Parliament will work with three hundred Members? What's his job? Is Merkel a job?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u39	Your time's starting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u40	Well, I'm still waiting for an answer, because the issue I raised is a big one. Minister, I'll fix you. You said most of the money from the ESRB that ends went to big projects. They didn't go to big projects. They went to great interests, to be precise, because the great projects in Greece themselves and themselves do the same, the same great names, which we - we - never hid - call them. If you see in the case of erecting Islamic tendencies who have come in, they are the same ones who grab the money from the NSRP as I said, Bobolas, Peristeris, etc. It's a consortium, which is Mr. Red in. We are talking about a project of absolutely economic importance, but I now show you how this system works, which you are obliged to cancel. That is what you told the Greek citizens before the elections. We therefore demand that all these projects, which have committed so many funds, which could actually lead the country to development, be cancelled in Parliament. We do not need the roads to be built when the Greek people fall. And because you said to a previous question that I watched you come from Chania, I would like to raise a major issue about the economic development of the country with regard to energy deposits south of Crete. I think you're aware. Professor Nikos Lygeros spoke of astronomical amounts, for hundreds of billions of euros, which are located in the subsea area of Greece, the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. Of course this is a matter for you too, because there cannot be economic growth in the country unless we finally exploit our mineral wealth. Already, as you know very well, a specific Norwegian company has shown interest in expanding research many kilometres south and east, where there is a treasure, which remains untapped. We therefore demand that all funds be allocated to build roads, where the known big-workers will rebuild them through the tolls, that this plan be cancelled and that the money go to new innovative technologies and, above all, to production. Without primary production and without a primary sector, a country cannot move forward. I also have an obligation to ask, because parliamentary control is about the country's economic life as a whole, and what is finally happening with negotiation, as you say, we are talking about contacts with international turmoil. Because only international loan sharks are those who have sneezed our country financially and demand shamelessly now, you have seen it, the final levelling up of the Greek people. The laughs with Merkel of Mr. Tsipras didn't pay off. The laughs with Merkel, which you call Chancellor, but we are right to call a "architectomy", have not been rendered. You saw where we were driving. Negotiation on your side does not exist and everyone recognizes that. And you have now been extinguished by international loan sharks on a disaster course for Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we ask, among other things, what is going on with your contacts with the international tug-up, which is aimed solely at the economic destruction of Greece in order to then evacuate with its quietness the country's mineral wealth? Golden Dawn - and I am closing it - certainly undertakes to vote against any agreement, any new memorandum that will continue the disastrous policy that has led our country to this economic disgrace. Any agreement does not denounce previous Memorandums and does not repeal previous implementing laws that destroyed Greece will certainly be voted against and fought by the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u42	You will also recognize that whether to become an Islamic mosque or not, it is not a matter of great or small construction interests. The appropriateness or otherwise is not another debate and it does not fall outside the point that we are discussing. The second point concerns the oil in southern Crete, I think we are closely following the second phase, which is ongoing and is about the processing and publicisation of data, which the Norwegian company does, which has a series of stages before we get to any process of competition on the basis of which it is itself, which will take some time even more and will be the most important part of this activity. As far as the negotiations are concerned, I do not think I am really responsible at the moment for opening this matter. I think, however, that it is difficult to criticise the government that it does not have a clear negotiating strategy, which, as most Greek citizens recognise, emits dignity and clear objectives that will serve the interests of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u43	Before we go to the last question today, I would like to ask the parliamentary groups who may be following the meeting to send their representatives, their rapporteurs and their parliamentary representatives, so that we can get into legislative work immediately and not waste time. We will now discuss the fourth question with number 314/5-2015 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary I Thessaloniki, Christina Tachiaou, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the risk faced by the Aegean islands by the lack of water ahead of the tourist season. Although, Minister, I am a nourishment of the island of Andros, whose old name is "hydrousa" and fortunately does not currently face such a problem, I endorse Mrs.Tachiau's very nice question. Mrs. Tachiau, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your good words. Mr President-in-Office - and Mr Stathakis is here as well - we tabled a topical question on the supply of water islands on 5 June. Since then, some data have changed. However, the problems related to water supply have not been solved. Let's take a look at the problem as it was on the 5th. Instead of continuing with competitive procedures the contraction of the project, you have been resorting to direct assignments since February. The only company to participate in the tenders and to which the awards were made and until now it has carried out the water supplies of the islands, was found in early June to have completed its work through two months directly awarded contracts. It's been found and it hasn't been paid and it can't go on with the water supply. On the other hand, the islands began to deprive and emit days ago a fire signal. The urgency of the matter emerged because your Ministry was being hampered both by the compatibility of the water supply and payment work, while on the other hand the Court of Auditors was only too late to check the contract. Let's see what happened. We ask a question, some publicity is given on the channels, and then we are told that last Friday the issue was resolved within a few hours. In other words, in a few hours' time, the Court of Auditors' audit has been completed. The project was compromised by the previous open tender procedure and passed through all the employees. You signed up, Mr. Dritsa. You put it too, Mr. Stathakis, and it's all right. In other words, what took months to do and did not happen and caused the danger of thirsting the islands, was solved in a few hours' time. So far everything is very well. If it was an up-to-date question, and if it were the risk of you coming here to the House today, Monday 15 June, and answering the question publicly, why was Kastelorizo left without water and why in Pharmaconissi the Navy had to go to give the few fans who are there because they would not have to drink, if that is the solution, then we should do so on every subject. However, this goes beyond the limits of parliamentary control and touches on government work, for which we are, of course, not responsible. In view of the fact that our question has been answered in the context of urgency, we have nothing else to comment on. But we have something to ask about. In view of the fact that this contract will last until the end of September 2015, while the islands will continue to remain in their place and then the substance of the question remains: how will the islands with no desalination system be watered? On two, three and four-month project contracts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam President, for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity before the National Representation and before the citizens and from the islands that are listening to us, to confirm that what you describe does not correspond to reality. Others are the reality and I will immediately tell you with evidence and not with my own allegations. I must point out, however, that there has been a turbulence for ten days now. Some of the islands sent out some messages that the islands are waterless. There was no - but, no - island without water. There were journalists and channels highlighting the issue and we from the Ministry responded "but there is no question". There is a big issue - indeed - with which system in time and in a stable and economic way the islands will be watered, but this concerns decades, as well as its course of action from now on. Of course, we need to talk about this constantly and with great seriousness. However, it is a timely matter that the islands had no water, there was no water. We wondered why various journalists were bombing us with such claims included in your question. Indeed, the competition for 2015 for the water supply of the islands was in the well-known traditional process of transporting water with water supply, which is something that needs to be finished, as we all know it. There are ways of modernizing the islands to have permanent facilities either desalination or other water supply, in a stable and cheaper way. But this has still not been done. When we received the Ministry, the competition that should have been opened in November 2014 was not opened. Do you know that? You don't know that. And we rushed right from the beginning...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u47	You're answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u48	Yes, but this is a long delay that is not due to the current government. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We have, therefore, called for the competition to be opened, and we have entered the process of immediately dealing with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u49	When was the competition, Minister, to have a full picture? You'll have tolerance, because it's interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u50	The competition was opened right after our own governance was taken over. I'll get you the exact date.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u51	Okay, in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u52	On 23-1-2015, the online public tender began and we immediately undertook to run him systematically from there. As you can see, the deadlines could not run. Indeed, we ran and you are right that in various phases, and the Minister, Mr Stathakis and I and the services of the Aegean Secretariat were very vigilant precisely because all these procedures had to be done very quickly. Indeed, we had this whole process open, and so that we could have the possibility in the interim, with an approved tendering procedure now and with an open tendering procedure, also proceeded with the direct delegation, as provided for in the legislation. All of this information will be submitted to you in the Minutes to be informed and further details. I would like to point out that in this process we have achieved the best price in recent years, which is high in relation to the cost of water supply for the islands, whether we have desalination or if we have other facilities. It is much higher, but it is the lowest value in recent years, namely 10,40. The water supply, when required and when needed in completely exceptional cases on an island, is done with the help of the General Staff of Navy. We are honoured for this because it is always alert to the Naval General Staff, to meet such needs and it is not the first time, it is very common. In some cases we did ask for his help. And there for the first time, while usually the cost of water supply through the services of the Navy General Staff is higher, we had a very good price, the same as the price of the contest. Therefore, I must tell you that the new water supply contract was approved by the Court of Auditors in accordance with the procedures, but there are also delays. But that's the process, there's nothing else. But there was no island left without water or threatened to stay. And the Secretary-General of the Aegean, Mr. Giannelis, with a systematic and daily effort, responded to this whole process. I'm going to go through my second thoughts on desalination issues, but be sure, my colleague, that something else is going on. This concern that was born was not born of a real lack of water on the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u53	Mrs. Tachiau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much. Minister, you know, I, as a journalist, have learned that when you have ten, twenty, thirty people who tell you 'is happening', you have one who says 'doesn't happen' and doesn't get the ministry to officially disprove it - why don't I know, I don't think it didn't get out of your ministry, do you? - and say on the channels: "You know, I see this thing, this story. However, because it is not the case...' I think you should get a press release. We didn't see that. I just point it out, too, as a professional. Also, to say that the last direct award contract concerned water supply for the islands with forty thousand cubic meters of water up to 8-6 2015, a contractual obligation, which was completed on 4-6-2015 after the last water supply in Patmos. I too - to make this clear - have not called into question the legitimacy of the energy you have done. I'm not indebted to you for that. A solution had to be found. A solution has been found. The problem is how to solve the matter permanently. I also have to say that you are, in fact, admitting that the matter was pending for months and suddenly, of course, you admit that it was resolved within one afternoon. So perhaps it was necessary to make that noise? In this respect, there was no adequate explanation. And of course I insist on the question of water supply in the future what is going to happen? As you quite rightly said before, the Navy is charging too much money. It costs more than double what the private can charge to get the water to these islands. And unfortunately...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u55	Wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u56	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u57	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u58	You said it was too high a charge. Didn't that tell me or didn't I hear well?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u59	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u60	You said it was too much higher the charge the Navy makes. Now you've found it cheaper you said. But, generally speaking, it was a much higher charge. That is what you said earlier. This is a situation which has not been the case for the first time in the past and is well known. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I ask again, since the problem remains open: how are the conditions for the safe water supply of the islands? And the term "safe" means the non-dependence of the water supply of Anafis, Amorgos, Patmos, Kimolos, Symi, Rhodes, Pharmaconesia, Kastelorizos - to know what we are talking about - by the one and only private company that exists. How are they created by the Government, how are they created by the Ministry, how are they created by the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy of Competition for the admission, possibly, of other companies, so that the alternative is not "to stay from water" or "to pay very expensively to the Hellenic Navy"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u61	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u62	Honestly, my colleague, I don't understand why you insist. I assure you that there was no island left without water or threatened to stay without water and the reality confirms it. I will give you an example. The Navy had to go three times in the last week, now, water in Kastelorizo, completely subsidiary. Within the whole water supply islands, you understand that a single issue has arisen in Kastelorizo. It went three times from six hundred cubic water since last Sunday, 7-6-2015, midweeks on Wednesday and Saturday. Today, we've been notified by Kastelorizo that they don't have any water. Three times six hundred cubic water is a thousand eight hundred cubic metres. The average consumption, in excess of all calculations, at this time for Kastelorizo is at a maximum of seventy cubic metres and yet - says - Kastelorizo has no water now. Do they store it in coroners for safety reasons? Possibly. Do we need to check and have leaks? Possibly. We try and take care of it. But there was no such matter. And I tell you that in these very few cases - very few - cases where the Navy had to help and go to Kastelorizo, the price, as in another case, is the same as the price of the contest, 10,40 minutes. In both cases this price is the price. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] So we don't have an overpriced price in the Navy. Generally speaking, the price for permanent solutions, which we are monitoring, starting and running, is accurate. And in this direction, I will once again present to you all the facts, in which direction are things. The study has been completed in Donusa and the installation is expected shortly. The study was completed in Amorgos and already licensed and the municipality's tender is expected to be submitted. Accompanying projects have been designed in Amorgos and it is required to be updated and the permit for establishment has been issued. A study is being prepared in Kimolo and a permit is expected to be issued. A study is being carried out in Heraklion and a permit is expected to be issued. In Schinoussa, too, etc. I'll give it to you all - because you won't hold it back - and this way in detail. Close to that, we are ahead of a design and we are already discussing with the stakeholders and the municipalities and all the residents to form a comprehensive solution so that we do not have a fragmentation of all these investments and projects, but have an overall approach that costs will drop for desalination facilities and for all accompanying projects and many other flexible solutions. But, to God, where do you see in this situation that I describe indifference, lack of programming, inconsistency or anything else? I repeat that this excessive burden on the state budget by watering the islands in this old way must be terminated. We have already started, since previous years, procedures for decommissioning - it is not the only solution, there are others, we are studying them - but at least the desalination programme is running.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u63	Please run your speech a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u64	In fact, Mr President, we are in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment too, so that we can legislate on a speeding up of the licensing procedure so that we can also get time to those which are already in progress, the licensed facilities. I think that the documents you will see in the Minutes can give you a full answer. Anyway, there's no island left without water.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u65	It thanks the Bureau for the presence of the two Ministers and their timely attendance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u66	Why are they leaving? We like them. To hang out with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u67	Is Mrs. Valvanie here? Well, by the time I read the preliminary, so we don't interrupt, he'll be here. If it is, we'll do it then. Mr Stathakis, since you're too convenient, sit down and see if Mrs Valavani is delayed a little, so I don't have to interrupt. I hope we don't delay you, but you're very kind, so we don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u68	And within the Halloween, stay, count.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Georgiadis, please. The topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Amendment of the provisions of the Code on Income Tax and other provisions'. The above bill was described by the government as urgent, in accordance with Article 76(4) of the Constitution. The competent Standing Committee of Parliament accepted the designation of the above-mentioned bill as urgent, as laid down in Rule 109(2) of the Rules of Procedure and carried out its examination and examination at a meeting. He submitted his report on 12-6-2015, as set out in paragraph 3 of the above Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Immediately after the bill, it was put on the agenda as provided for in Rule 62(1) of the Rules of Procedure and by way of derogation from Rule 91(7) thereof. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 109(4), (5) and (6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the debate and vote of the urgent drafts is closed at a meeting of a maximum of ten hours. At the beginning of the sitting, the House may, on a proposal from its President, determine the time allocated for the first and second readings. If, for any reason, a Parliament decision is not taken on this matter, it is available four hours for the debate in principle and six hours. Apart from the rapporteurs and special speakers, in principle and in writing, they shall take part, if the Prime Minister, the Minister responsible, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and one of their representatives so wish. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore like to suggest that, in the light of the above, we discuss the draft law in principle and the articles of the Single Act, in order to give the rapporteurs, special speakers and MPs time to be placed on the bill. According to the decision of the Conference of Presidents on 12-6-2015, the draft law will be discussed in two meetings. The relevant Deputy Minister of Finance, as well as the rapporteurs and special speakers, will speak at this meeting. Tomorrow's meeting will conclude the debate and vote on the bill. I also propose that two speakers be given the floor by some from SYRIZA, two speakers from some from New Democracy and one speaker from the other parties. As far as speaking time is concerned, I propose that the rapporteurs and special speakers should have 15 minutes of speaking time, the competent Minister eighteen minutes, the co-legislative ministers, if they wish to speak, nine minutes. The Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, if and if they wish to speak, ten minutes. The Presidents of the remaining groups of Parliament seven and a half minutes. The Parliamentary Representatives for twelve minutes, the speakers appointed by the parties, seven minutes. Secondary speeches are defined as half of those years, except for the years of the rapporteurs, special speakers and speakers. Since I have received a request from the New Democracy to have a third speaker, this is supposed to be true for SYRIZA as well as for the other parties if they want to. However, since tomorrow is a time to end the debate, if all parties want to put an additional speaker on the table, I would like you to accept that they should enter the already existing list. Also, if there is time until the end of the sitting, they will be happy to speak. Does the House agree with the last proposal, but also with the whole procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u72	Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u73	Let's start with the latter in the parliamentary class. Mr President, I would like to protest to the Bureau as yet another management, processive and secondary legislation of the Ministry of Finance comes under the urgency procedure. We realise that the Ministry of Finance has major issues to deal with - in my position I will refer to some of them - but it is not possible to trouble Parliament and this House by bringing Thursday evening an urgent bill to discuss it on Friday and to come to plenary today. I want this opinion to be recorded. I would also like to ask whether, in accordance with the procedure you have proposed, we will have time to place ourselves specifically in our dentistry, after hearing - because we have a number of comments on the articles - and the Minister. The third, Mr President, is this. I would like to ask you if you have the permission of Mrs Constantopoulos to start the meeting, because if she were the same here, I fear she would count us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr Kutsukouko, for the last point I would like to say that I have cooperation with the President of Parliament. Okay, I understand the humor of your position, but I'm over it. By the procedure I have proposed, because you are old, you know that there will be time in dentistry and articles. That is why I proposed that the debate be consolidated. You can speak in denology as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u75	Do we have a quorum? We don't have, we're not seventy-five. We can't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Georgiadis, I take responsibility and the meeting has begun. After all, I don't sit down and count, it's seventy-five. It therefore agrees unanimously on a procedure. Before the first rapporteur from SYRIZA begins, I would like to mention that as Parliamentary Representatives - there are the letters from the parties, but I do not read them for a moment - Mr Nikos Friend for SYRIZA, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis for New Democracy, Mr Artemios Matthaiopoulos for Golden Dawn, Mrs Lyberakis for Potami, Mr Karathanasopoulos for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nicholas for the ANEL and Mr Leonida Gregorakos for the PASOK have been appointed. The rapporteurs will be Mrs Katerina Papanatsiou from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy and special speakers have been appointed for the Golden Dawn by George Galeos, for the Potami, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Athanasios Vardalis, for the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos and from PASOK Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u78	What are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u79	The Court ruled as follows: If you leave me, I'll analyze it for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u80	You have the floor for a minute, Mrs. Makri.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. As parliamentary amendments have been tabled, Members who have tabled them under the Rules of Procedure are entitled to analyse the amendments and see if the Minister can accept them. I therefore think that Members should also be given a word and a list of speakers who will speak for at least three minutes. So I think it is right, because we cannot be constantly present in procedures in which Members do not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u82	But you have agreed, Madam President, with the urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Kutsuko, calm down. You should be happy too, because you also took off a new president. Calm down. Today you find yourself so vibrant? You have the wishes of Parliament's wings for your President! Mrs. Macrie, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u84	So from the moment that, in the urgency procedure, Parliament's Rules of Procedure may be tabled, I think at least the Members who have tabled amendments should have the floor in order to develop their amendments. I think that makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u85	Don't think so, but be sure. Tomorrow, starting with the procedure, whoever is in the Bureau will ask the Minister what amendments she is accepting, what is not acceptable, and what is what you are saying will be accepted. You find me in agreement. It's just today's not the time for this thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, may I say something about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u87	Mrs Valavani has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u88	Mrs Makrerere, in the debate with the President of Parliament, I have undertaken that neither amendments nor amendments will be tabled. I'm saying that to keep it in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u89	And that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u90	You did well to say it today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u91	The Rules of Procedure allow that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u92	Let go, Mrs. Macrie. I protect the MPs. This does not deprive Members of the right, if time permits, to explain the reason for tabling the amendment. I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u93	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u94	Wait, Mr. Georgiadis, you're very strong today. Did you find out today where I am at the Bureau? Calm down. Before I give the floor for a minute and to Mr. Georgiadis - Mr. Voridis, am I right? - I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Amendment of the Code of Income Tax and other Provisions'. In addition, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and the Standing Committee on Production and Trade shall submit their report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Amendment of provisions Code of the Hellenic Nationality - Incorporation into the Greek legal order of Directives 2011/98/EU on the single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence permit and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for workers from third countries legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for seasonal work and other provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u96	What is it you are asking for, Mr Georgiadis? Proceedings?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u97	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u98	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u99	On the subject of the amendments we shall agree with the Minister. In an urgent procedure other Members cannot take the floor because the debate is organised. It is therefore important that amendments should not be tabled and accepted, because some other colleagues who want to take the floor on Mrs Makre's amendment, for example, cannot speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u100	The Minister was clear in this regard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u101	So we agree with the procedure as set out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u102	However, it is permitted under the Rules of Procedure, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u103	Madam Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, the present, small-scale draft law regulates certain tax issues that need to be addressed immediately, with top examples of what concerns n. 4172/2013, in other words the new Income Tax Code, which for the first time applies, was voted in the summer of 2013 and applies to the incomes of 2014. So, firstly, it regulates in Article 1 a number of extreme tax cases brought about by the new Income Tax Code and concerning the tax declarations that are now being submitted. These cases require, as has been demonstrated, a more integrated approach to the non-activation of evidence in relation to the regulation of n. 4321/2015 that just attempted this. These concern mainly young people who have an income exclusively from interest or rent, for example. Also a car, as well as the relatives mainly, permanent residents abroad, who have income from interest, but also have a secondary residence or a car in Greece. Those who were subject to these two categories with interest or rent income, often few euros, which are anyway taxed autonomously, by regulation of the n. 4123/2015 escaped from the minimum living presumption of 3 thousand euros, but the rest of the evidence was put into operation, so that many times for a minimum euro income they would have to pay tax this year, if not corrected, a few thousand euros. In the light of Article 1(1), which concerns proofs from outside residents, the scheme applicable to the previous Income Tax Code applies again. 2238/94, for the financial year 2014 - i.e. 2013 what had been applied last time - and the unfair taxation of foreign residents, particularly of thousands of Greek homosexuals on the basis of alleged living costs, secondary residence, car, etc., as I have already said, for example, is to be avoided. They acquired income from interest on deposits in our country even a euro. This is also a problem with the country's possible return of deposits, so that Greek homosexuals who do not have any business interest in Greece can save taxation on the basis of imputable income while living abroad. Article 1(2). In this regard, Mr President, I should like to say that I am very grateful to the rapporteur for his report. 4123/2015 is complemented by the arrangement that the difference between the imputed income and the income acquired by the taxpayer only by capital is taxed on the payees’ scale. I would point out here that, in order to do this, it is necessary to produce proof to reduce the EUR 2.100 tax which is from the wages and pensioners' and pensioners' scale. In this way, vulnerable social groups, such as the unemployed, with an income of EUR 1 from interest and imputable income of up to EUR 9 500, will not be forced to pay unreasonable taxes on the basis of evidence, such as on the basis of the presumption of 9499 on 26% tax plus 55% advance on tax in this case with EUR 1 and an increasing amount of tax revenue at EUR 3,828, which is completely absurd and that is what we mean when we say it is extreme tax cases. Article 1(3). It refers to the abolition of paragraph 1 of Article 34 of the Income Tax Code, so that there are no overlap. At this point, and in relation to paragraph 4 of Article 1 of this bill, I would like to read and then submit to you, to share - there is nothing else, that is all - a legal improvement, which is complemented by a more correct wording by the existing paragraph 4 of Article 1, so that on the basis of the comments made by the Members of almost all the parties in the debate in the committee, there is nothing else to increase its scope, so that we can be sure that it includes all those who entered here as a matter of urgency that it should be included. I read to you: Paragraph 4 of Article 1 of this draft law is replaced as follows: 4. Article 72 of the EEC Treaty. 4172/2013 a new paragraph 35 is added as follows: ‘35. Where the actual income of taxpayers in the tax year 2014 does not exceed EUR 6000 and their imputed income does not exceed EUR 9,500 and where a business activity requiring the submission of a start-up declaration or an individual rural activity is not carried out, this income, with the exception of capital income and capital goodwill for the transfer of capital, and the added difference in evidence, shall be taxed on the scale of the employees-retired persons referred to in Article 15(1). If the actual income of the previous paragraph exceeds EUR 6,000, the excess amount shall be taxed on the business scale. The provisions of this Article shall also apply to taxpayers who have ceased their business, to the income acquired after their interruption.’ I put it in the Minutes and please share with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u105	So what do we say in paragraph 4 of Article 1 of this bill? The income obtained by occasional or opportunistic employees, unemployed, households, students, participants in work experience programmes, etc. and since these are not professionals, that is, they have not started work, they are taxly treated, for reasons of tax justice, as income from wages and pensions, calculated on the basis of the amount of the EUR 2.100 tax reduction - I should also like to point out here that proof is needed - and without any advance payment being made next year. Subsequently, a rational and fair escalating tax is introduced for the occasionally and occasionally as the above-mentioned employees, whose income may exceed even for a few euros the sum of EUR 6,000. The excess amount falls within the business scale, while the amount of up to EUR 6,000 is taxed on the employees' scale. The case of taxpayers who, as a result of the economic crisis, ceased to pursue their business in order to qualify for a fairer tax regime, since the income they acquired is, in fact and imputable, within the limits of paragraph 35. Article 1(5) for the use or free of charge of agricultural land. In order to achieve a fairer taxation of farmers, in view of their actual capacity to pay, an imputable income should not be calculated for the use of or for the free concession of agricultural land for cultivation, as well as for grassland, pasture and livestock production facilities, a concession made to their close relatives, anionists, descendants, spouses, children, parents, brothers and sisters. The production of these lands and installations is, in any case, taxed as a farm income. However, the new Code on Income Tax provides - and that is what we want to change - for the first time a kind of imputable rent to the state. For all of this, it means suffering and expense, as they should make use of notarial services to determine on the basis of the table of objective land values that the notaries have, the objective value of the fields, which are other if they are on the mountains and much higher if they are seaside, as if the wheat or olives have a different price, depending on the location of the field. From that point on, 3% of the objective value and 11% of the tax are calculated. For someone who cultivates all or almost all of his fields, this because he enters his books has no other financial effect. It may, however, pay an extra tax if it grows a few fields, because it cannot be separated between farmers and non-farms, or if it is unfortunate that it is close to the sea, so in this case the costs may be much higher than the revenues, so there can be no set-aside. Article 1(6) It is foreseen that paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 -- 5 are related to the agricultural land rent in the State – they are applicable from the financial year 2014 onwards. In paragraph 4 there is the word 2014 in the text, which is why it is not mentioned - to prevent questions that have been raised in the committee as well. Let's go to Article 2 now. Article 2 lays down the taxable amount for the construction of natural gas pipelines in the country. It is currently concerned with the undertakings in response to the TAP invitation to submit offers, materials and services exclusively in respect of the construction part of its transit through Greece. Tomorrow may also be about Greek Stream and of course any other pipeline is found to pass through Greece in the future. Under VAT legislation, goods obtained from intra-Community acquisitions receive a suspension of VAT while, on the contrary, goods originating either from Greece or from other third countries are charged with the VAT in question. If we went to the countries there to offer an offer for a pipeline that went through there, we would also be free of VAT. It is understood that this is a question of unfair competition between the companies involved in the tendering procedure for the supply of goods and services related to the construction of the pipeline through the country, since the goods of the companies participating in the tendering procedure from the other European Union countries will not be charged with the VAT in question. The new provision will apply to the so-called reversal of the VAT obligation by the recipient TAP and thus be able to participate on equal terms in their bids to TAP, with an installation in Greece, by Greek and foreign companies. This is a typically neutral financial result as this is not a VAT exemption, since VAT is either charged to TAP or to its suppliers anyway. The TAP is zero, its suppliers are returned. However, the actual result is not at all neutral, as it restores conditions of equal competition. I have to tell you that the address of the company TAP has made it known that it does not intend to submit to the noisy of returning VAT which, otherwise, if preferred by Greek companies, will have to pay before it is repaid by the State. Article 3, which concerns the use of natural gas as a raw material in industry, is withdrawn. The issue of exemption from excise duty in proportion to all other energy products used as feedstock under a specific directive of the European Union should be resolved. However, 25 million euros is a very large amount to either discharge - because this is what we have come up with - or a refund, without guaranteeing where it will be channelled, much more if companies which will be willing to take this refund, owe workers, insurance funds, PPPs, other ECHOs, etc. It is clear that there is a need for further research and development. We'll bring it back to a next draft law. Article 4: From 1-1 to 31 December of this year, grants to children, spouses and spouses, parents and brothers of the dead and missing persons in the major maritime tragedy of ‘NORMAN ATLANTC’ are exempted from taxation. I think there is no need for further explanations or explanations. We already know that it is all Parliament's wings which are in line with this discharge. Article 5: It concerns service stations which are four hundred throughout Greece, many of which after they were abandoned by the basic cigarette company which provided them are bankrupt. In accordance with the provisions of Article 32(4) of the Rules of Procedure, 3229/2004, tobacco wholesalers from 1-1 to 2004 were re-entered in the second category of books of the Code of Books and Elements. Also, according to the Minister of Finance’s POL 1134/2004, wholesalers of tobacco products have exempted from keeping a inventory book and drawing up a census on 31 December 2004. In accordance with the provisions of Article 31(1)(c) of the Treaty. 2238/1994, in the case of the critical period, undertakings holding books and B' items of the Code of Books and Elements, i.e. wholesalers of tobacco products, where they do not carry out a census as an end-period census, receive a percentage of 10% on the purchases of this period and start-up census of 10% on the markets of the previous management period. The tax audit carried out by the undertakings concerned to determine net income for the year 2004 was carried out as a start-up census, the actual census of the use of 2003, which the controlled companies had applied as the category of books they held - C' category books - and not 10% of the purchases for the year 2003, and as an expiry census of 10% of the purchases for the year 2004. In this way the gains obtained are multiples of actual and declared by analogy to all other uses. Since this is essentially a mistake of the tax administration, the proposed provision restores the tax equilibrium and litigation ends. Finally - and with this in mind, Mr President - Article 6 corrects some extreme aspects of the imposition of an HPAI certificate in trade - mainly sales, but not only - which had been frozen and which has been invalidated in many of the minimums completed since the beginning of the year. Fines to notaries and mortgages are also elected. I would point out that it is clearly stated that these changes cannot be such as to bring about a reduction in tax revenue and that all the changes have taken place after discussion and have the agreement of both the tax administration and the notaries, apart from the issue of the fine, which is a dimension within the scope of the tax administration itself. And of course, here we are going to discuss this. My own personal view is that these are fines for negligence. If there's a felony issue, as you can see, we're going to an entirely different impact category. And, of course, if it is fraudulent in high-value sales - government in all likelihood - which appears to be negligent, you understand that paying more than EUR 4,000 to EUR 1,000, when hundreds of thousands of euros or millions of euros are being judged, is not what will in any case prevent such suspicious behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u106	I left time for the Minister because he analysed one or one of the articles. So you are also being facilitated by the rapporteurs and the special speakers and the speakers tomorrow, after you have heard the Minister's position, and we have rightly consolidated the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u108	Before Stepma, Mrs Papanastassiou has asked for the floor for a minute. To what is the intervention, Mr Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I have just been informed that, instead of relaying the plenary session live, the Parliament's channel has chosen to relay the Commission's meeting on the Audit of Debt. This is leniently unacceptable. We have denounced many times that Parliament's channel operates as a personal tool to promote the activities of the President. I would therefore ask you to intervene immediately in order to restore the order, the channel of Parliament to retransmit a meeting which is urgent and not to choose to retransmit a committee set up by a personal decision of the President, without a plenary decision and without the participation of the parties. What is happening once again is unacceptable. Please do not continue, Mr President, until it has been cross-checked that Parliament's channel is relaying this sitting and not the committee's meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, I would like, please, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u111	It can be broadcast by the ERT, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u113	Mr Mitsotakis, if I were you, I would be very glad to address the issue you raised and perhaps you could understand and what would be my position. As President-in-Office, I am not allowed to take a position and I am not allowed to interrupt the sitting. But I am allowed - and I will - to ensure that the President is immediately informed, under whose authority...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Gregoraco, wait a minute. You're an old parliamentarian. Wait till I'm done. I saw you. Immediately, therefore, I can inform you of the issue you have raised. I told you, too. Mr. Gregoraco, I assume you're asking the floor for the same matter. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, you have received my letter, which I have also communicated to the Vice-Presidents, in relation to the behaviour of the President of Parliament with regard to Members and, in general, to the functioning of Parliament. I think it's in your mind. I've notified you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u118	I personally haven't received it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u119	I've sent it to you personally. So I would like you to know about this. Mr President, as a parliamentarian for too many years, it is the first time - and I regret to say - that I see this House and, in particular, the Members of this House, being treated by the President of this House with an inappropriate attitude. And here, I'm stopping. Unfortunately, Parliament after so many years... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am allowed to respond, I shall respond. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u121	Unfortunately, Parliament has become a personal matter of the President after so many years. For example, it does not take into account the Conference of Presidents. It does not convene it under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and of the Constitution. It violates the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution. He thinks the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u122	Mr Gregorakos, you will allow me to tell you, as an old parliamentarian, that Mr Mitsotakis has raised another matter. You are now generally speaking of the President, who is absent and who is interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u123	Let me finish. So it's not the first time that the President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u124	Please don't embarrass me. You know you're out now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, let me finish. Once again, it shows its behaviour when it uses Parliament's channel for another purpose than the Parliament's channel has been built. So the House, Mr President, has a responsibility to decide on these. And it's not just a matter of the President's using the Parliament's channel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u126	And the Conference of Presidents, in which you and I are involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u128	Mrs. Gerovali, let us move on now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I was sorry to have asked for the floor before Mr Gregorako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u130	All right, now, you realize that what is happening is at the expense of tomorrow's speakers this whole process. For isology...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u131	I'm lifting my hand all this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u132	Mrs Georgiovasilis, Mr. Friends has been appointed as a Parliamentary representative. You'll either talk or Mr. Friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u133	I'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u134	Good. You have the floor for a minute. Mrs. Libertyraki, I'll give you the floor right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u135	In view of the fact that Mr Mitsotakis has not given the floor on staff or on the procedure for the debate, it is another matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u136	Isn't that procedural? If that's not a process, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u137	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u138	As Mrs Gerovalis has not interrupted anyone, I would ask her to end the matter with Mrs Lyberakis' speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u139	And Mr Gregorakos was also given the floor in order to have a personal attack once again on the President. These are new customs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u140	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u141	The question of television could be discussed. However, this has only been done to attack once again the President, who, obviously, with many of whom he shakes, is disturbing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u142	Okay. Mrs. Libertyraki, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the same thing. Today in plenary we are discussing an urgent draft law on tax arrangements, of an urgent nature...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u144	Emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u145	We also talk about it at a time when our country, literally, is in a breath-raising distance from an impact on an iceberg. It is completely unexplained at the moment that transparency and information are proposing to show the committee on debt. I think it makes sense to ask for a short break of ten minutes, to see exactly where the matter is and how it can be settled in the best way possible and to return to our debate with a full consciousness of the importance of the moments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u146	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u147	Mrs Lymmeraki, the Bureau is not in a position to take a decision. Don't put me in the process of putting it to the vote. Seeing from above, I predict the result. Let's move on, please. That is one point which your representatives can put at the next Conference of Presidents. As far as I'm concerned, at least as a representative there, I'll put it. Ms. Papanaceu, please come to Stepma. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this tax bill, "Modification of income tax provisions and other provisions", regulates tax issues of occasionally employed persons with very low annual incomes, farmers, foreigners and homosexuals, in order to avoid the excessive tax burden imposed by the new Income Tax Code, which was adopted in 2013 and will be applied for the first time this year for the incomes of 2014. So this bill is another proof that for the new government people are above numbers. In view of the continued correction of the injustices of previous years and laws and of deep faith in another type of growth and job creation, we continue. The bill comes to correct, among other things, tax injustices. Thus, it is planned to abolish the living documents of residents abroad, with the aim of addressing the outflow of funds from our country belonging to Greek expatriates. For these taxpayers, the obligation to indicate in the income tax statement all revenues of Greece, regardless of the amount, no longer triggers the evidence of living. Thus, if a tax resident from abroad obtains income from deposit interest in our country of EUR 1, Greece will not be charged on the basis of imputable income if he/she has - for example - a secondary residence or a passenger car. Under the above provision, any resident from abroad had an income from deposits interest even of EUR 1, who was obliged to pay tax to Greece on the basis of living documents. This, however, resulted in the tax residents from abroad and especially the Greek homosexuals, withdrawing their deposits from the domestic banking institutions with apparent consequence of the loss of capital and interest taxes or introducing money to cope with the capital in Greece in order to cover the subordinations of living and then export them to the state of their tax home. Finally, the costs of acquisition of assets do not apply to tax residents abroad provided that they do not acquire income in Greece. We prefer to amend the tax on added tax on evidence and also to change the way in which occasional or opportune workers are treated. The income earned by the occasional or opportunistic employees - who are the unemployed, the householders, the students - who are involved in work experience programmes and since they are not professionals, that is, they have not started work, are treated for tax justice as income from salaries, pensions, calculated the amount of the EUR 2.100 reduction and without the advance being confirmed in the following year. Also, in this bill, a rational and fair escalating tax is introduced for occasional and opportunistic employees. If these incomes exceed 6,000 euros, the excess amount falls on the business scale, while the amount of up to 6,000 euros is taxed on the employees' scale. The provisions of this Article shall also apply to taxpayers who have ceased their business and to the income acquired after such termination. We also include in the bill the non-enablement of evidence on cars and property when the taxpayer has only small incomes from deposit interest and a car or property and the presumption does not exceed EUR 9,500, thus correcting the injustices of evidence and giving a solution to the problem of overtaxation of thousands of taxpayers with very low real incomes from interest or property. There is special rules for farmers, in which they are not counted as an imputable income for employees of individual agricultural business from the use of or free of charge of agricultural land to unionable persons, descendants, spouses, children, parents, brothers and sisters. By this provision, a technical solution is given to the problem of farmers so that they do not have to resort to a notary for the calculation of the 'AA-Turkish' at an extra cost. It is, of course, avoided, in some cases, the tax burden on those engaged in an individual agricultural business because of imputable income from the use of or free of charge of agricultural land. In this way, there is a first attempt to alleviate the very burdensome family budget for farmers. We are committed to further intervention in the way of the reconstruction of the countryside and the agricultural sector as a whole. In a sense of responsibility and sensitivity, the question of exempting from the tax the sums of money and any exceptional financial aid paid to the families of persons affected by the sea tragedy of the ship ‘NORMAN ATLANTIC’ is legally resolved. We do not aim to achieve the figures by depriving taxpayers. The aim is to alleviate them, while at the same time acting for the benefit of the country's development potential. Not only is it isolated but the new government is working primarily to reinstate it as an equal and competitive partner in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u149	The Minister isn't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u150	Mrs. Papanachius, I'm sorry for a minute. I would like to ask Mrs Valavani's colleagues, although she is one of the extremely consistent ministers, to inform her for reasons of order if she can come in. Please. Carry on, Mrs. Papanaceu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u151	After we interrupt to interrupt...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u152	With this in mind, the Greek companies, which will contribute to the construction of gas pipelines on Greek territory, are exempted from VAT. In this way, we intend to help Greek companies manufacturing natural gas pipelines, with the aim of treating them as similar Community companies and having the opportunity to participate on equal terms in the tenders and supply of goods and services for the construction of gas pipelines. The Greek companies have a significant disadvantage as compared to the similar Community companies on the ground that a Greek company has to issue a VAT invoice for the intra-Community supply of goods and services, while the corresponding external Community undertakings, which carry out cross-border supply of goods within the Community within the framework of intra-Community trade or services which are taxed as a customer, can issue the corresponding documents without VAT, in accordance with the rules of intra-Community trade and takeovers of services. Thus, in the decision of the undertaking manufacturing a gas pipeline for the selection of the supplier of goods and services, the need to disburse in addition to the VAT in question will be negatively taken into account. We pay particular attention to an investment that shows that the country is not just dependent on anyone but demonstrates its significant geostrategic importance, which, if we understand, we will have a significant benefit. I would like to point out that there is no budgetary cost for this provision. With regard to the provision for the redefinition of the net profits of wholesalers of tobacco products, the collection of income tax by these undertakings will be increased. Smoking stations have always had to keep books in category B and for one single use in 2003, these companies were obliged to keep books in category C and to carry out a real inventory, and from 1-1-2004 onwards were re-entered into the books in category B under the provisions of Article 32(4) of the Act. 32292004. The audit authorities did not apply the provisions of Article 31(1)(c) of the Treaty during the verification. 22381994 on fictitious census. For the determination of net income as a start-up census for the year 2004, the actual census of 2003 was taken, while as an expiry census, the fictitious 10% on the markets in 2004. In this way, the resulting gains are multiples of actual and declared to all other uses. The proposed provision restores fiscal equilibrium and enables these companies to join the hundred-dollar arrangements. In the last article of the bill, the consequences of not presenting the HICP certificate are streamlined. The shortcomings and errors of that certificate, as well as the fines imposed against notaries, mortgages, shall be fixed according to the value of the transferred property or right to it. For this reason, it is also necessary to waive the nullity of the contracts drawn up until the entry into force of this Law, to which an ENVY certificate has been attached, but failures or errors in respect of the property elements mentioned therein have been detected. With the economy of the country destroyed by the monumental policies and thousands of padlocks on the market and the transfer of tax burdens to low-wage and retired people, the unemployed and the world of work as a whole, we realise that this situation needs to be reversed. We must lighten the Greek family, the farmer, the unemployed, the worker, but at the same time trying to mobilise the economy, industry and production towards a new development logic, a logic contrary to the one that has been followed in previous years, the results of which we are seeing today. There's no need for any more mention. That's our target. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u153	And I thank you, Mrs Papanatsiou, because we have earned time. I would ask Mr Apostolos Vésiropoulos, rapporteur of the New Democracy, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the bill coincides with the heavy shadow that continues to take place in the country by extending the uncertainty to meet its financial needs and staying in the Eurozone. The government, even at the moment, avoids informing the political leaders about the course and the data of the negotiation, because it is of course not an update of the debate that took place in this House ten days ago. It seems that your main concern is the communication preparation of the painful measures, which will accompany a new framework of agreement with our partners, a framework which may be incomplete in time and will be completed with a new memorandum, because the financial needs of the country following the return to recession, uncertainty and deficits are increased. Probably attempts to ferment within the government majority, to convince those who are still in the sphere of hallucinations, hallucinations that have collapsed one by one. It is not enough time to analyse your inconsistencies from the start of the negotiation. If something dominated these five months, it was tolerability, along with ideas and improvisations. You have necessarily entered a debate on tax measures, which will have a major impact on the real economy, and in particular on those areas that have shown considerable tolerance and development prospects. And all this, because you refuse to touch the deep state. Ladies and gentlemen, tolerability and improvisation are the elements that characterize this government, along with inconsistencies. If you look at what you were saying about bills that came in previous years under the urgency procedure, you will certainly find yourself in a particularly difficult position. They do not look forward to the way in which the bill we are discussing today came to Parliament. I would like to make two remarks, Minister. I'm going to stand on two points of the bill: In the special report under Article 75(3) of the Constitution, signed by you and Mr Varoufakis, the Minister for Finance, says: 'The above reductions will be replaced by other sources of State budget revenue'. What are the reductions and what are the sources of their replacement? One more thing about the report on the impact assessment of the arrangements. The report is empty, it has nothing. Why is that happening? When the object of this bill is concerned, it concerns matters that were known in advance. The need for corrective action to address distortions was established. These are issues which could have been dealt with since last March or even with the legislative act on the Greek Sugar Industry, or whatever through another bill. These are issues relating to the application of the Income Tax Code, which is the first time applicable to income 2014 and for which the need for corrective action has been identified in time before the tax return system is opened. And you come to do it now, when in fifteen days the procedure for submitting tax declarations is over. This is an impression, given that it is not a matter of regulation that is a field of confrontation. On the contrary, they are arrangements that are a field of consensus and agreement for everyone. It is something that has been expressed during the debate on the draft law in the Committee on Economic Affairs. It is clear that the government's malfunctioning also affects the effectiveness of the tax administration. A characteristic example is the issue of Circular 1113 a few days ago by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which regulates matters relating to expelled and non-exhaustive expenditure. This circular came after a feast, since everyone knows that many companies had already booked balance sheets. It is well known that you do not take into account what we are saying, you do not hear any proposals that we are making, you do not want dialogue and cooperation. Is it possible, however, that you do not listen to the associations of accountants and tax technicians pointing at these inconsistencies? Is it possible for the Ministry of Finance's political leadership, do not anyone know that the evicted and non-expenditures relate to all enterprises, regardless of the category of books they keep? Through this circular, you are actually suffering thousands of businesses who now have to change their balance sheets and even the balance sheets that have been posted and communicated to the General Commercial Register. I would like to mention, as an example, the exceptional contribution from the companies active in the PV sector. While, until now, it was equally within a five-year period, especially in 2014, a 100% discount is anticipated. A further example is related to the Car Traffic Charges, which, while paid in 2014, will be considered as deductible expenditure in 2015. The question is if you realize what agitation you are creating in citizens, businesses and accountants, what agitation you create in some groups of companies that compose consolidated balance sheet. While there was time to legislate on a number of issues, while clear and specific instructions and circulars could have been issued in time, you come not only to five but to five to legislate. Ladies and gentlemen, our agreement on the content of the bill has to be seen as a need to create a new framework for open dialogue and cooperation on tax issues. The great picture we all have to see is very specific. The budgetary issues are real and pressing. The need for corrective action for the ongoing rationalisation of the tax system is also given. See what happens with these seven articles in the bill, which in principle relate to the regulatory framework for living documents and their link to taxation. A common objective must be the gradual abolition of documents and the creation of a framework of rules whereby citizens are taxed on their actual incomes and on the basis of a reduction in their actual expenditure. As I pointed out to the committee, we as government started this effort and the planning was to begin the abolition of the documents in the year. Here, then, is a new common field of proposals! As far as the regulation of the bill is concerned, I was as clear as I think it is. I shall refer to them, starting with the living documents of foreigners and especially the problems posed by Article 33 of the Treaty. 4172. According to this, residents of abroad were obliged to tax on the basis of alleged costs in case they had a home, a car and at the same time maintain a bank account in Greece. In this way, however, beyond the unjust and excessive tax burden, he also had a negative message towards all these people. The specific arrangement that relieves them is in the right direction. We have pointed it out, too. It is, as I pointed out, a moral motive for all these people, who would otherwise transfer their money abroad and close the bank account in Greece. I would also like to mention the regulation on how to tax the added tax difference of taxable persons who have income only from capital or capital gain. We refer to the cases of interest income, dividends, rents and shares. Since this income does not exceed EUR 9,500, taxpayers are taxed on the wages and pensioners' scale rather than on a 26% tax rate which would also have an advance tax payment for the following year. It is right to regulate, but incomplete, since it excludes incomes from profits, participation in personal companies that keep simple books. These profits, as you know, are not considered as capital income and are entered in a different code in the tax declaration, i.e. they are entered in the other information items under codes 431 and 432 of the tax declaration. The state must be fair, and taxation at a rate of 26% plus tax advances for someone who has so little income from participation in a personal company that keeps simple books is not an act of justice. It is unequal treatment in relation to and comparison with other cases. We can even deal with it now, Minister. It goes without saying that our agreement on the provision for occasional or opportunistic workers with an income of up to EUR 6 000 and a imputable income of up to EUR 9 500, who have not started work. It goes without saying that they should not be treated taxly as freelance professionals, but with the rates applicable to employees and pensioners. In fact, people are struggling to survive, people with occasional incomes. In some cases these incomes come from participation in programmes or subsidized seminars of work experience or training. This is where duty-free could be introduced. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] As regards the provision for the abolition of imputable income for those engaged in individual agricultural business by the use of or free of charge of agricultural land by their relatives, this is a self-evident arrangement. In fact, there was no tax effect beyond the self-proof irrational nature of the original provision. Why? For quite simply the taxable amount resulting from the use of agricultural land was at the same time and deductible expenditure, in accordance with Article 23(h) of the Law. 4172/2013. In the right direction, the arrangements are also designed to amend the VAT Code, with which Greek companies will now be able to participate in tenders for the supply of natural gas pipelines and pipelines, while the exemption of Greek undertakings from the excise duty on gas used as raw material in the industry will be introduced. As far as the second part is concerned, it must ensure the validity of this provision for all undertakings and not just for some of them. It is a presumption that an update and harmonisation of the institutional framework is needed, in line with what is internationally and especially in the countries of the European Union, with a view mainly to strengthening the competitiveness of Greek businesses. There is also no contrary view or disagreement on the arrangement exempting from the donation tax of financial aid granted or intended to be granted to families and relatives of the victims of the destructive fire on the ship ‘NORMAN ATLANTC’. The rationalisation and absolute determination of net income and the tax on tobacco-producing agencies also moves on a sound basis, a regulation which definitively resolves an outstanding 2004. We also consider the regulation that removes the consequences of cancellation of contracts due to shortcomings or incorrect elements in the HIS certificate. It is a pretext that rationalisation is needed in the context, and the lifting of the nullity is also a way out for the purchase of real estate, a sector that is hard-tested and in recession. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance and, in general, the government is pretending to have solved the problem of the taxation of agricultural aid. If you did something, it was two things. Firstly, you must mislead farmers by making promises and commitments that you have not complied with. Secondly, open up a large ferry that leads to the taxation of agricultural aid. You have had the opportunity to give a simple, permanent and definitive solution. You have not done so, because the creation of new deficits due to the uncertainty of the last five months makes you look for revenue everywhere. It's a mistake to constantly invoke the v. 4172/2013 to justify taxing agricultural aid. I've told you several times. Article 21 is clear as far as the determination of revenues from a rural business activity is concerned. Revenues are those derived exclusively from the production of agricultural products. Agricultural aid and compensation is not an income. The aid is given in order to make a crop sustainable and is a balance between adverse conditions and data. It's not an income. You go ahead with the horizontal taxation of agricultural aid. The cap you put has nothing to do with reality. You excessively tax a four-member agricultural family with a total income of not more than EUR 20,000, all working on crops, just because they happen to have received aid of over EUR 12 000. And you believe that this is how you tax only 5% of farmers. You're wrong. This is because we are simply talking about the direct aid given to farmers, but about the whole agricultural aid that a farmer receives in the course of his agricultural business. Even now I call on you to restore this distortion, an issue for which I believe there is broad agreement and consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, at these critical times for the country they do not mean communication designs. The party interest cannot prevail over the national interest. The government must behave responsibly, not to question the strategic alliances and the orientation of the country in a world with asymmetric threats. It is a pretext that the six to seven months that were lost, together with the elections, brought the country back to deficits and recession. It took the government five months to find out the truth and the reality. At this juncture and where you have led things, the best deal is that it will be particularly painful. Here there are no ideals and party purposes. There is only responsibility for the country and its next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u157	Here you go, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, half an hour ago I pointed out the fact that the plenary session is not being relayed live, but the Parliament's channel chooses to relay the meeting of the Debt Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u159	What am I supposed to do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u160	What do you do? To interrupt the sitting, Mr President, until a button has been pressed on the co-chair - it is a very simple case - and to retransmit the channel of this House, as is due by the Rules of Procedure of this House, the plenary session. It is not possible, Mr President, at this critical juncture, for an urgent bill, once again to serve the personal game of the President, for a committee which was never set up by a plenary decision. I would therefore ask that, with the agreement of the whole House, the sitting be suspended until it is clear. The channel of Parliament pays the Greek taxpayer! Mrs. Constantopoulos is not paying for it! So the sitting should be suspended for five ten minutes, as long as necessary - I call for your personal sensitivity - until the self-evident. Mr President, you have a common mind! Please! You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u161	I will be squeezing myself into the extreme presidential duties tonight. I can't get into different tasks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u162	Why tonight?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u163	Mr. George Galeos, representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u164	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u165	What did you say, Mr. Kutsuko? They are going beyond my strict presidential duties for tonight what Mr Mitsotakis said. We're on. Mr. Galeo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, I have to say that I am surprised with this bill and indeed positive this time. I've said many times from this Step that SYRIZA distinguishes a slap without a plan. With this bill, I think we are going in the right direction, not only because there is a project and it is not so handmade but why it goes in too many parts in the right direction. And why am I in the right direction? Why are you trying, even a little late, to correct some mistakes made in previous bills either by you or by the previous government. This, of course, brings some obstacles to these taxpayers who will now give their tax declaration and will have to be updated and adjusted in a short time. And some businesses, as one colleague said earlier, will have to do their tax statements again, which creates time and expenses for every company if we want to see it clearly financially. Nevertheless, I will begin by entering the articles one by one. First, it does something good in paragraph 1 for the code of added value for the construction of gas pipelines by companies. This is a right step, because it enables Greek companies to compete with foreign companies and be now competitive for the take-up or co-take-up of public works, such as the work of the light gas pipeline, etc. The second step is: Article 3 in its provisions shows that it speaks of gas, which some companies use as a raw material to produce certain products. So far, this is a very good step. What I care about me and the whole of the Greek people is that, again, some - two, three, five, not more than ten - families benefit more from all the others. Why would it not be good to do so for all the Greeks, for every taxpayer, that this value should be dropped, with regard to the taxes that we put on them in the gas, so that only Greek families can benefit from this regulation and not just the family rule of five, ten, which has factories and major properties? This is a point that we see from Golden Dawn as a sign of the bill, which needs improvement. You're talking about tragedies beneath. For example, you will not tax what has been or will be taken by relatives from the ‘NORMAN ATLANTIC’ tragedy. It's a good measure. The point I have to make here is this: I would prefer a bill which regulates the case of tragedies, because when such tragedies occur, there must be a common guide, so in any case we do not need to legislate on this particular case, as now called 'NORMAN ATLANTIC', that is to say not to do it for the first or second or second, if such a tragedy ever occurs. I think that's one thing that's done. I would like to say something else, as far as farmers are concerned. You say - and quite rightly - that the transfer of property to or from children should not be taxed if this property or the agricultural undertaking does not continue to be an undertaking and you are exempting them from the tax. This is something very positive and we certainly welcome it as Golden Dawn. We are in favour of exceeding that limit you set at EUR 9,500. We need to go beyond it so that these people do not have to pay tax or pay a minimum tax when they transfer their property to their children, because most of the time such property, such businesses, because the children are either in town or they have emigrated abroad, are simply not transferred, but they are shut down. A good measure that we from Golden Dawn see and which I know, as I was a migrant abroad to study, is what you say about the Greeks who live abroad. Even if they earn a few euros many times from some of the deposits they have here, they have to pay huge taxes. Here the measure you take is very correct. I'd say maybe this limit would be better, the plaque we've put on, to raise it even more. So we may be able to achieve some Greeks who really want to help their homeland right now in the difficult situation they are, bring money to enable our economy to begin again. That's why I think maybe the limit is a bit low. I would also like to tell you about the measures you are taking for the ENPIA. For example, when a sale takes place and HICP is not documented within contracts, contracts are considered void or if it is in the knowledge of the notary that he has done this, that is, no proper assessment of HICPI, is also required in a large fine. In the first case, I believe that contracts should not be considered void. The contracts still have to be valid from there on, the subject of HISPIA has to be investigated. As for notaries, the fines they used to pay are huge amounts and all of them have an impact. The impact is not to sell. At the moment we know very well that sales have been terminated, that nothing moves, that the purchase and sale due to such laws and because of taxation is not moving. Everyone asks, there's a thousand sellers, there's not even one buyer. Even from abroad, buyers and investors come, as the previous government thought they would come - perhaps you did - and that is why such laws that clarify and facilitate the situation are in the right direction. You will tell me this: Since the Golden Dawn - and I personally - we find all this so well, so well, why do we have a certain reservation on the bill? The reservation we have on the bill is simple. There is a good bill coming in the right direction, but the situation of the country is now very critical. Negotiations are taking place which, in our view and as soon as possible, will bring Greece a third memorandum. Of course, if there is some resistance on the part of the ruling party, the ANELs, a part of the New Democracy, Potami and perhaps the others will vote for this third memorandum and take measures that will be so unbearable for the Greeks that these measures you are taking here, which are for the benefit of the Greeks, will look like a drop in the ocean. This is our great reservation and these measures which we believe will come very soon to the Greek Parliament, if an agreement is reached, will lead Greece to even more than the ten thousand suicides that have been committed in recent years. They will lead her to even greater migration. But that's why SYRIZA and the Couple have found the antidote. It will legalise a hundred thousand foreigners to complement the Greeks who commit suicide or leave abroad because we are not able to keep our compatriots here. These few things I wanted to say. We continue to have the reservations until tomorrow when the final vote of the bill will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Galeo. The reason is the special speaker from POTAMI Mr Theocharis Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is clear that we must denounce the abuse of the channel of Parliament and its use as a communication tool for the efforts of the President of Parliament to turn the House and its channel into a personal tool. It took ninety-two years, from 3 September to 1935, to the Greek people to turn this place from palace to Parliament. The President of Parliament in four months' time has done it a palace before. This cannot go on. You're bringing a bill again as an emergency. You confess, ladies and gentlemen of the government, your inability. At least three reasons. You have already changed tax provisions. So instead of dealing with the tax provisions you want to change in a bill, bring them all together, you bring us a second tax bill two months later. You do so during the statements, while they have already been opened, and in the first tax provisions you have brought us you have justified delaying the opening of statements that you were waiting for these changes to be incorporated, and that proves the lie that you told us at the time. Finally, you are doing so while the changes you are bringing are changes that took place last year during tax declarations, which is what others did. Do exactly what the previous government did. You have not been taught either by its mistakes, but you are primarily bringing provisions of the same or similar logic. Nevertheless, we thought - and we have also said in committee - that this bill is positive, firstly, because it makes some correct corrections to some injustices, to small or larger injustices and, secondly, because you have improved it. Look, if you would like, Minister, to see the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which tells you that since in the explanatory statement on tobacco growers you want to understand legal disputes, you do not do so with these provisions. Make a legal improvement to fix it. But also, everyone - I said it first in committee, but the ANELs also agreed, and many rapporteurs from SYRIZA said so - agreed that the maximum fine of EUR 1 000 for the issue of the ENVA certificate should be increased, possibly up to 5,000 euros. Look at that. It is not possible for the wrong transfer to pay only EUR 1,000 a fine that made the wrong transfer. I think we're talking about professionals. It is right that change should become proportional. The previous fine was very hard, but, in any case, get the maximum fine to be - I think - fairer and more proportionate. Finally, you have not accepted any amendments. That's good. You did well, because we heard, today, a Member of Parliament want to support the amendment, even though the Minister did not accept it, even though it is an amendment that changes a law, n. 2238, repealed. We also have the phenomenon of a SYRIZA MEP to table an amendment to a law which does not apply and which wants to support it here from the Step of Parliament. I look forward to hearing her support for an amendment to a non-existent law. But what are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? I'll tell you what we're talking about. We're talking about tax codes. That's what we're talking about. And here comes the tax camels. You will swallow them politically. You can't avoid it. Unfortunately, the Greek people will swallow them financially. He's the one who's gonna pay them. Finally, what we hear these months! You are the first party of the Greek Parliament that is Buddhist. You're a Buddhist party. You have a yard, you call it 'no austerity, no material measures', 'no austerity, no real measures', 'no austerity, no fundamental measures'. And what are you doing? As good hypocrites - teachers others say, but your word doesn't hold him. You're bringing down recession without austerity and without material measures. But a fall! You do it in three ways. If you want, we'll explain it. I think it's obvious. It's, at least, obvious to the Greek people. Let's explain it to you too. First of all, you do it with your inappropriateness. You've been there in five months to bring the Siberia investment. When you said that we would have closer relations with Russia, we did not realize that that was what you meant, that the whole country would freeze, that you would turn Greece into Siberia. It is incomprehensible what has been happening in the last five months. All the investment projects have been frozen. [[Noise - laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] You're laughing, Mr. Comrade. You're laughing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u169	But you're laughing at what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u170	Go on, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u171	With inappropriate measures, Mr. Philly! That's not for laughing. It's, unfortunately, weeping. If you were an investor, you'd cry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u172	Siberia's about laughing and crying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u173	It's not for laughing, because they've frozen everything. Your miserable measures to 26%! You put 26% on my imports for triangular transactions, and now you are looking to find out how to cancel Article 21. Shareholders and micro-enterprises are being co-arranged, effectively abolishing anonymous companies. Article the other day said how much investment has been cancelled because it is not possible for a limited company to be effectively abolished and to be in solidarity with the entire small shareholder of 10%. But, above all, you are bringing down the recession with the measures you are proposing to the institutions. You negotiated the primary surplus. In fact, SYRIZA has unwittingly admitted the damage caused by SYRIZA himself. He admitted it yesterday on twitter. He said that in March that we spent 1.2% of our primary surplus would be possible, we could have passed it, we could have brought it in meters. Now we can't achieve one percent! What changed in the country from March to today? Has the government changed? Oh, no! The government is the same, SYRIZA. That's all it's changed. SYRIZA has been able to achieve a primary surplus of 1% since March. And I ask: If we can't achieve 1%, how did you agree to 1% surplus? You agreed! Here we have had the exclusive one since the morning 'Kathimerini' about what you have given the institutions, the European Commission, the weekend and from which you seem to have agreed to 1%. The Greek Treasury Minister says it's impossible, and you suggest it to our partners. So how do you negotiate? With the Minister of Finance having a second line different from the one you're supporting offline? On two lines you can't negotiate. You're mocking us or at least mocking yourself. That's why you can't work. This is something we have seen in the primary surplus. For ten days, we hear you negotiating. Our institutions are talking about 1%. We say 0.6%. Our institutions are telling us again about 1%. We say 0.75%. The institutions are talking to us for the third time about 1%, we say 1% and we have agreed. Negotiation on its absolute success. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen, you have done it! Unfortunately, you choose in these proposals not to increase VAT, the least of the substantive tax. And it's the least of the material taxes, because people spend the same things they spent before. Businesses, too, have a way of dealing with it by absorbing VAT or changing their products - by reducing size or by making some changes - to keep the same price. That is why this tax is causing less recession. Instead, you prefer extraordinary contributions and wishes to combat smuggling and tax evasion. As far as these wishes are concerned, since the first day, I have said in good faith that you will start the first time the fight against smuggling and tax evasion, because no one will believe you. And now you really are here to tell you, at the point where no one believes you. I will read from the text which you have given the institutions: "Sixteenth contribution of 12% to companies that have profits of over 1,000,000 in 2014". Cuff Memorial! A week ago you gave the institutions another piece of paper and talked to them about an emergency contribution that would bring more than 5,000,000 profits. She'd bring 1,000 million. This one's gonna bring 600,000. You are increasing the companies you tax, increasing the rates - because the rates at the time were 5%, 7.5% and 10% - and reducing the revenue. What numbers did you tell them a week ago? And this is the preparation of the government, which is fully prepared and these 'bad' institutions cannot accept anything? Another thing that you are proposing to the institutions is to 'increase the rate of taxation from 26% to 29%'. You're not in favour of austerity. You're against it. You're not in the realms! You also propose "increase in the solidarity tax of 220,000,000 for 2015" and "cutting in defensive expenditure". Now what is this? The Department of Defense does 500,000,000 defensive expenses and the next day you tell them that you cut 200,000? How's that gonna happen? Can you explain it to us? In addition, you suggest "taxes on advertising, gambling taxes" etc. But let us, above all, compare what you have said here with what you have said in the tax evasion programme. From the lists, Mr. Nikoloudis told us by summer - the summer came, here he is! - 2,500,000! Now he promises 200,000. Of the 2,500,000,000 now he promises 200,000, 000, and we're still waiting for the results! Smuggling fuels: 1.5 billion has been said to us by Mr Mardas to come, 75 million says here. The 1.5 billion became 75,000,000. This is the political will that the Greek Government has just had, which had no ties with anyone, would bring the revenue. Cigarettes: Programming statements were said for 800,000,000, zero here. What happened, is there a 'Bermuda Triangle', which, in addition to triangular transactions, disappears and measures disappears? Where is this political will you have? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up, ladies and gentlemen. There's no plan. You don't even know what the plan is like. If growth came to hit you in the head, you wouldn't recognize it, but you would deport it from the country as a persona non grata. That would have happened. You bring austerity instead of reforming. Reforms to do are far more difficult than austerity. Now you austerity have incorporated it fully into your ideology. Fully! But the plan wants balance, it wants conflicting forces to operate at the same time, so that society can balance. You're making a structural change that's for the benefit of society? Of course! You want to make two VAT rates so that you can hit the tax evasion and have some reductions in some products to bring about a balance, but also increase the humanitarian aid that you have given. At that time, you have to increase and say: I subsidize the current, I subsidize the food. To double the resources I give there to help those people who are on the limit. Are you reducing and eliminating the exception from the islands? You are subsidising the cost of transporting them so that you can ease the problem, which you are creating. So only we can have a real plan. So we've proposed you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u174	With the lenders' plan, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u175	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u176	We don't even agree with the government's plan. We're telling you you've managed to make the government have a worse plan than lenders, unfortunately. But we do not agree with the lenders' plan. We agree with our proposals and I will tell you now. We are proposing real VAT reform, so that this opportunity is not lost in mere tax measures, so that tax evasion can also be reduced by two factors so that the problem of VAT can finally be solved, but also red tape, so that companies affected by reducing costs, exempting them to EUR 30,000, and that there is a great deal of bureaucracy, which does not bring about revenue. We propose not just a reduction in early retirement, but a abolition of them, because early retirement is unfair. It is unfair that the extremist pays the pension for the 50th and the forty-five, and we still have such phenomena, unfortunately. We propose that you unify the funds, unify taxes with contributions so as to eliminate bureaucracy and unify collection procedures. This will allow services to work better, better staffed, businesses to have less bureaucracy and deficits in the insurance system to quickly reduce, directly, easier. Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u177	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u178	And whatever difficult measures this government or a next government is forced to take, they are measures that will not hit the low-pensioners and they will not hit those who are in real need. Ladies and gentlemen, you are once again bringing us a rough bill and all you can do to achieve is the Greek people at the moment to take a few slight reductions, but to come up with the measures that will hit him as a roller. Be careful, because if you do not negotiate properly - at last - the Greek people will pay very much for the amateurs, with whom you are ordering your government presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Mr Athanasios Bardalis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, under certain provisions of this legislation, may, through certain provisions, reduce certain categories of workers and farmers, lift certain injustices, but not only does it not change the anti-grassroots, paperwork at the expense of workers and people's groups, but through the new agreement, the new memorandum that is about to sign, it will also load new burdens on the backs of the people's family. This is a negotiation that has been under way, which runs like all over the past few years, with the well-known requirements of the 'equal' partners who sometimes call them blackmailers when it suits propaganda, the red lines that are slowly pink, the preparation of the populaces not only to accept an anti-grass agreement, but to say and thank you from the top because we have not been destroyed, we have not gone bankrupt. It is a negotiation that as long as it breaks down and any delusion there was that with negotiations within the European Union there could be a philosophical solution. It turns out that those in favour of this were deceiving the people. As the negotiations go on, it is becoming increasingly clear that this is done on behalf of the big capital and regardless of where the level of the new tax raid and other anti-grassroots measures will eventually be saturated, the marble will once again be paid by the people's family. It really needs you to move forward with your own proposal to impose new anti-grassroots measures, and to put them out as an honest and mutually beneficial compromise. Your anti-grass proposal is presented as the smallest evil to get a new addition of more anti-grassroots measures into the final possible agreement and to present them as the best possible compromise after mutual retreats. We call on the people, and on this step forward, to put their own red lines to the creditors and to the government. The power of the people lies first and foremost in the organization, class struggle, in the irresponsible struggle to get back the losses we have had over the past five years, in the preparation and organisation of the popular counter-attack immediately, now to claim the abolition of the memorials and implementing laws. Only if the movement reconstitutes and signals the real opponent, namely the ruling class and the European Union that supports it, can there be hopeful prospects for the people. The main axis of your policy is this part of Thessaloniki's programme that you have diligently concealed, in other words the support of the interests of the major business groups. Are we exaggerated when we tell you that your main concern is to support big capital? In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law we are debating today, it states: "In view of the difficult economic situation which the country has been facing in recent years because of the economic crisis, the Greek state must do its utmost to develop the economy and help Greek businesses." And what are you doing to help Greek businesses, what is your logic? You give them the right to issue invoices without VAT, as is the case in other countries of the European Union - but why? - to strengthen their competitive position vis-à-vis other Euro-Union enterprises. However, when your main concern is to support and strengthen entrepreneurs, to develop their competitiveness, then one can easily understand why a reduction in the price of the labour force as a whole is necessary. And because Mrs Deputy Minister would like to, but at the moment, in her opinion, overthrowing is not what she has told us in committee, what is realistic today is the support of business groups, and when that is the case, companies will be able to give their jobs and even pay them. It's not even an original point of view. And the previous ones have taken all these anti-grassroots measures in the name of growth, the relaunching of the economy, the development of competitiveness. Unfortunately, with that logic, instead of aiming to overthrow the system, you see the way out and through this satisfaction of the people's needs. However, the substance does not change, regardless of the reason why you are invoking it. You all support a rotting system. That's why you keep at the bottom the wages and the dividends that the former rulers took. That is why you also reduce these wages and hunger pensions to the tax storm that you have already agreed, regardless of where it will be. The competitiveness of foreign and local business groups you want to strengthen. But this effort doesn't stop here. Despite the withdrawal of Article 3, your logic does not change. Why did you withdraw it, then? You said yourself that today the 25,000,000 are a lot, and you obviously don't have them. However, the logic of strengthening business groups with cheaper raw materials and reducing energy costs remains at the first opportunity, as you said, you will bring it back even better thought out. The workers, and on this side, must in no way remain quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, the treatment of certain extreme cases, as the Minister herself said, is a drop in the ocean. Take the farmers' example. The SYRIZA rapporteur has also told us that she is also committed to other future rural development interventions. When? When the circumstances allow it? When we find equivalent? In other words, here, because they are also farmers, it is glossy that "live me to eat clover". Now what's going on? Now, extreme cases are being dealt with, which in no way is what farmers need. While the government takes new tough measures against small and medium-sized farmers, following the anti-agricultural common agricultural policy of the European Union, by having them pay tax even those who have no income, provided that they have a house in the village and a car, this also applies to them, namely taxation based on imputable income. Since this year and for the first time, they have been obliged to pay tax from the first euro of income and for subsidies of over 12 000 euros, with a rate of 13% and an advance of 27.5% of the tax for the following year. The second direct blow that farmers are taking is the new reduction in subsidies and other payments provided for in the new EU Common Agricultural Policy 2015-2020, which in total can reach, that is, the reduction, and 50%. The new anti-grassroots measures come to be added to the old ones, which, despite SYRIZA's anti-election promises, still remain valid and apply as HNPH for homes, bars, plots and fields, which were not abolished. They even apply to OGA pensioners, who have the misfortune to have a smiling house in the village, built tens of years ago with a thousand labors and sufferings and a small farm for their garden. The large increases in the prices of agricultural oil, agricultural power and almost all agricultural means and supplies, as well as in the OGA and ELGA premiums, have dropped production costs. And all the government is coming to do is not count on the presumptions of the tax for those farmers who produce it, in order to use it themselves, without being traded. In a positive direction is the non-implementation of income tax, such as interest on deposits, based on the imputed income of Greek homosexuals. However, together with Greek homosexuals, they are included in the same regulation and all tax residents abroad. It seems to me that what concerns you most is the loss of deposits from banks in Greece because they withdraw the deposits so that they do not tax themselves and therefore lose capital. Under Article 1(2), there may be a slight relief to some unemployed, since 26% today will be taxed at 22%. However, it is a different matter. It is the abolition of unemployment tax. The draft law that we are discussing does not, however, abolish taxation does not relieve the unemployed of taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the Minister's statement that he will not accept the amendments, the Communist Party of Greece, taking into account the heightened problems of workers, tabled two amendments for their relief. The first amendment provides for the abolition of the legislation in force since 2013 and provides that the State takes the lead in claiming its rights in the event of the auctioning of its debtor's assets or of its bankruptcy in relation to the debtor's employees and the social security institutions. The first amendment is necessary because unpaid workers for a year and two years, made redundant by the employer, now face a risk of survival in the event of their repayment being cancelled, because of the overpriced prerogative, which even extends for the past, regardless of when it is established. This amendment calls for the second subparagraph of Article 61(1) of the d.d. to be repealed. Article 33 of the EC Treaty and Article 33 of the EC Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 33 EC) must be interpreted as meaning that it does not preclude a Member State from imposing a definitive antidumping duty on imports of certain textile products originating in the People's Republic of China, whether declared as originating in the People's Republic of China or not. Date of birth: 4141/2013. The second amendment proposes to restore the injustice of workers or pensioners, to whom, while due to wages and pensions, when eventually paid in a later year, these amounts appear in the tax declaration to be a high income, thus being taxed at high rates. It is necessary for the relief of thousands of employees and pensioners in the public and private sectors to amend the specific article of the Income Tax Code in order to provide for earnings earned by wages and a pension when they are collected at a later date than the one who was born, to be raised and taxed in the year concerned, i.e. the year when they were born, by means of an additional amending statement of income tax. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account everything we have said above, the Communist Party of Greece is voting'residents' at the beginning of the bill. We shall deal specifically with the latter's position on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Tomorrow we will also be able to other Members who have tabled amendments to take the floor. Despite the earlier statement by the honourable Minister that he rejects them, the Members who tabled them will develop them. Members will be invited to difficult parliamentary duties shortly and must support what they think about the bill. So Mr Kammenos, next, may refer to his amendment. He's signed two, I think. Please, Mr Kammenos, come to Stepma and tomorrow we will have the possibility of another two - three of our colleagues making a brief reference to the amendments they have tabled. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, if you will allow me, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u183	Madam Minister, I have listened to you from my office when you said that you rejected the parliamentary amendments. You have done well for ministerial purposes, but the Members have tabled, the Members have the right to and support them, and tomorrow they will be given the two-minute or three-minute opportunity to develop them, regardless of the fact that you will reject them, but after you hear them. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u184	I just wanted to make a small correction, which, on the basis of the Minutes, seems clear. I did not say that it is not on the agenda, as the honourable Member of the Communist Party of Greece said, at the moment, socialist transformation, but the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Greek economy, I said 'but the working vast majority of society and the country must stand'. There's a little difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u185	Good, Minister. Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as we discussed in the Special Committee on Finance, the Independent Greeks are all behind the draft law 'Amendment of Code of Income Tax and other provisions'. We consider the specific movement of the government to be a move of common fiscal logic. We should not forget that we are coming - unfortunately, I would say, because they could have been prevented much earlier than us - by correcting and rationalising provisions that had been made in tax justice. However, in order not to speak of everything vaguely, impersonally and to a third person, the tax justice of the memorial laws of the last five years has brutally hit the natural person called Greek citizen and the Greek company, who operates within the limits of our country, so all these laws have resulted in the dissolution of the Greek economy. So what else, despite common sense, can we invoke what else, despite the fact that a government can, without asking anyone, without consulting an e-mail server, without taking the permission or standing next to a fax, take a mandate or a typical 'yes' or'maybe', legislate towards the law to correct all the bad texts of the past five years and everything else that was before the memoranda? Abolition of proof of residence of residents abroad. Known is the problem of bank withdrawals, but beyond that there is also the question that if Greece wants to develop, in order to really speak and not stay on paper, it needs the relatives, it needs the funds of the relatives and it needs the mental connection with the Greeks of the homogeneity and not only. If these people are chasing them like bourgeois persecutors or tax fugitives, we cut them off from the mother country, which is only negative for the development of the Greek economy. And not only that, but we need ambassadors and advertisers of our country, let alone our own people, who are truly Greek. So it is an article that is also in the context of common sense. The mechanisms here should be careful not to take advantage of the provision, because many people will say - as I will say at the end of the amendment I have proposed and have tabled to the House - in relation to the change in the tax house which, in a simple, dangerous and highly wicked way, went to n. 4172 in the summer of 2013 - and I'm not afraid to say it - photographically about the Lagard list, where with a simple statement by anyone who could change tax residence and be taxed as a resident abroad. With regard to ‘the occasional, opportunistic employees’ it was certainly an unjust measure, which had to be corrected. The injustices are infinite, we come to correct them, but I do not want to go into all the details, because it doesn't matter. We need jobs. This society, as it has concluded, should not be developed through the state nor should it be developed through blesses, let alone through business plans or wish records on a paper. The development of any society, i.e. the increase in the denominator of the debt-to-GDP ratio, that is, the Gross National Product of each country is increasing from private investment. Private investment to come to Greece should be competitive environment, have competitive taxation, there should be the twelve pillars of competitiveness, as described in the OECD and not just, and in all studies, and one of them is low energy. I would remind you of the great debate we had on the Greek Sugar Industry, where 25% to 28% of the cost per kilo of sugar in Greece was the cost of energy. It makes very sense - and I congratulate the government and all of us who have thought about it and supported it - to reduce the energy costs for Greek businesses, but also for foreign companies operating in Greece, so that they can compete with the products, give them a fundamental incentive to invest, to give jobs and finally start the development cycle of Gross National Product!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u187	The layout's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u188	As far as pipelines and transport are concerned, it makes sense - on the basis of my previous report, in relation to competitiveness - that Greek companies are competitive in terms of sub-contracting on such a large project. Let me give you two numbers, which I studied the other day, and they came to me from Bruegel. The revenue of the Greek economy from the new pipeline, the southern pipeline - because I do not like the term 'Turkish' - which the government is talking about at the moment, will amount to EUR 400 million a year and revenue, the discount on natural gas for all consumers in our country will be of the order of EUR 100 million a year. So, on a purely present value basis, if we bring it today, at EUR 4.7 billion, the discount, but also the direct revenue of the pipeline. We are talking about huge investments, which have a fairly large impact - not huge, but quite a huge impact - on the Greek economy and bring many jobs. They also increase the Gross National Product. As far as Norman ATLANTIC is concerned, we must all apologise to these people, who so far or when the vote on this bill is over, we have not made sure that they are not put aside and that we do not treat them in this way. I have nothing more to say. As far as tobacco service is concerned, as the New Democracy colleague has rightly said, it is an old issue. It had to be solved. It is fair and it will clearly pay off revenue, which I expect to see and which is reflected in the new agreement with the institutions, in a box, and not to be zero. Annulment of contracts with ENPI. That makes sense. I, too, had a disagreement, because I believe that we should certainly not give an apology to those who make huge real estate transfers, by imposing them a soft pentokillion as a fine for a transfer of millions of euros. Nevertheless, the transfers of millions of euros in Greece are minimal, but illegality is in thousands, hundreds of thousands of potential real estate transfers of 200,000, 300,000 euros, 150,000 euros, where the risk of losing income is at stake, and there must be strictness in the law and a high fine that would go up to the strict punishment of the notary himself. I would remind you that there was a proper provision before, that as far as the lawyer, the lawyer and the notary, who is aware of the tax revenues from the State, is concerned, his licence is being removed and he is being criminally prosecuted. This should continue to apply, but the 5,000 fine to apply to transfers that are common real estate transfers, which all Greek taxpayers have, such as home, field, warehouse or anything else to transfer to their family or to a third party. In short, we come in the middle of a tough negotiation that we are all seeing these days, and as much as some want to degrade the effort that is being made, common sense says that the first step is to say why we are doing this. We do it because there was something wrong. Who made the mistake? What about us? Oh, no. Did the previous guys make it? Yeah. Therefore, let us not forget that what we are doing today is to streamline and correct the mistake of the Memorandum governments. We did not come to rationalise our own mistake, which we saw along the way and we wanted to correct. So, right now, we have to wake up from the four-year, five-year memorial mine and see the reality. They all have to vote for this bill. I have said so to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Personally, I cannot understand why someone would say 'no' or 'no' in this bill. Politically, at the cafeteria, outside, when we drink our drink or in the hallway, we can say anything, but in the Greek Parliament we are heard by Greek citizens who have been tortured and when they see or hear a political party or a fellow Member deny his vote to a bill like this - as was the first bill on the humanitarian crisis, where I still had the same question, if you remember - I cannot understand what message we want to pass, even small-politically to our own voter. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the two amendments I have tabled as a Member of Parliament. One thing I have put before myself and the other with my colleague Mr Mavragani. There's no strange inspiration. It came from a question I had asked to the honourable Minister about the tax change, as I said earlier. There is a provision in the law that in a very simple way, in a very simple statement by anyone, arguing that his partner or child or a person lives anywhere outside Greece, may well declare a tax seat abroad and avoid taxation in Greece. The second amendment - I do not know, Mr President, if I have to read the explanatory statement - has two paragraphs, and the second one is to do with the proposed percentage, which should be the incentive rate, which we will give all Greek taxpayers a single payment of their tax debt. From 2% we've made the 8% discount. Because at the moment the government - and every government that would be in our position - needs a lot of forward income to meet the needs, which we all know are, without having to negotiate with anyone. Therefore, the Greek citizen must have a competent and necessary incentive to go and give his tax debt only. A 8% discount is a very significant amount. The government is not losing, it's winning. Because - not to confuse our debate now with a three-month or six-month study, in relation to the benefit of the discount on the one-off advance payment of the tax - it is clearly a great incentive. So I firmly believe that the two amendments have been an opportunity in this bill and, in the meantime, if you want the tax returns made by our fellow citizens, which we will all do, have in mind and are scheduled to help the government in its own revenues and they themselves have a significant benefit - it is very important that the economic benefit - and at the same time, at the same time, to prevent anyone who would like to take advantage of the provision of the law from taking advantage of the tax provision, so as to avoid any tax, which would be criminal to continue, be a witness or not to do anything about it, that is to say, to see the money go away from our eyes while we are chasing the money, in order to serve our obligations as a country. And, as we all see, we bleed, trying not to bleed the Greek taxpayer any more. I would never like in this House to feel that we are voting against the interests of the Greek citizen. We may at some point have to bring measures that will be within the mandate that we took from the people on 25 January, but we will only do so if we feel proud and manage the debt, which is clearly unsustainable. And as we have seen in the last few days and have seen before, which I have had the pleasure and honour of taking part in the debate with Mr Roumeliotis of the International Monetary Fund in the Commission on Debt Investigation - I would ask everyone to take the Minutes of today's debate - the revelations are dramatic, we are going to get our hair up and we are going to have tragic changes in the way we think about today. The revelations are - I would say - criminal indifference to even felony. In the Memorandums Committee, too, very serious irregularities have arisen in relation to loan contracts and how we entered the memorandum. So we conclude that one thing we need to do is to be serious, wise, reasonable, to correct ourselves, without anyone's permission, injustices and distortions - especially taxation - for the mutual benefit of all and to have the citizen next to us. Because if we have the citizen persecuted, we will never have him next to us to support our decision. Secondly, we should all look and read the minutes of the Committees of Inquiry, because the conclusions are very important and will change the way we all think about the next day of this country, the way we negotiate and why we do what we do all these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos from PASOK has the floor. He's the last speaker for today. We'll start tomorrow at 10:00 an hour. Good new beginning in PASOK, Mr. Koutsuko, and good luck in your new leadership! Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that this is not just about PASOK, it is about the country as a whole, that is to say to the parties with democracy, to elect their leaders, to have programmes, to implement them and to contribute to the matter of the country's major problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has brought in a bill under the urgency procedure. If anyone listened to us, he would say that we came to discuss one of the major issues, these serious issues, which are currently of concern to all Greek citizens, who are anxiously asking 'where is the country and where is it going'? Unfortunately, this is not what this is all about. I imagine that the government's financial staff will have a sense of responsibility in relation to developments, because our feeling is that between negotiation and the 'accident' is too small a distance, as the government handles them. In the morning we wake up with an agreement, and at night we are in front of the "accident"! Unfortunately, the country is trapped. The country was caught in a tactic chosen by the Prime Minister personally, who did not go forward or backwards. We've wasted valuable time. From January 25th, consider how much has happened. We've wandered on Mr. Varoufakis' bridges. They're about to become sigh bridges! After that we went to the evaluation. We exchanged mail, measures, proposals. We lost the account until the Prime Minister came out after a meeting with Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Juncker, and told us that we were close to the deal as we have ever seen before. We believed it, too, and we were prepared to welcome the agreement. In fact, some were raped to criticise SYRIZA for the measures it would bring. Last night, however, we learned that the talks had been interrupted. I think, in order to be serious and to have a sense of the situation in the country, that the government must bring the cards to the table. We must be told by Mr Tsipras, by Mr Varoufakis what the official proposals that have been exchanged with our partners, with the institutions, as they are now told. I read, ladies and gentlemen, some time ago, the interview made by the representative of the European Commission by Mrs Anika Brighthardt, who told us that what is said here in the interior is not true and that they did not request any specific wage and pension reductions, that they had other proposals. In any case, the so-called institutions have given us an interview and have told us what they are asking for. The government will put on the table to inform the Greek people, what exactly has it given and what are its alternative proposals? Will the national negotiating team call on the parties that have European orientation and want the country to stay within the euro to look for a way out? This is the real debate we have to have today. This concerns the people until tomorrow, on Thursday that is the Eurogroup. The rest, we're having a good conversation. The government could have solved these issues as system injustices, as they have been identified. If we do not have this great debate, however, the rest, perhaps, do not make any sense. I criticized the government for the way it legislates. In fact, I pointed out to the committee a point on which I called on the Minister to invite us to explain to us Mr Lafazani and which concerned the issue of a reduction in excise duty on undertakings using natural gas as raw material. And I said that this could strengthen the competition of some businesses, but it harms the other companies, because, yes, it is energy costs and the government must face it in total. Did I hear you correctly, Minister, that you withdrew the order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u191	Yes, sir. He'll come back to another one...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u192	Good. Because the previous colleague of the Independent Greeks didn't understand it and he congratulated you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u193	Article 3 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u194	...to deal with the problems of energy costs. So I say, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, Mr Samoyli, Mr Phile, that when we legislate under the urgency procedure, see what "photographies" can get into bills. This arrangement is scandalous. It doesn't matter that Mrs Valavani withdrew her. He can give us an explanation. But I believe that Mr Lafazanis should give it, because there is a signature here. Who was it about? Who uses raw material, natural gas? It was not, as we thought, about industries and crafts using natural gas for energy, such as fuel, oil or electricity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u195	Who was it about, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u196	Ask the Minister who withdrew her and ask her why she withdrew her. I would like to point out this as an example of a misdemeanour. And in this process of poor legacy they embroider these photos. I now come to the provisions of the bill. Take note, ladies and gentlemen: the government has indeed pointed out since it took over, but also before, as opposition, an unjust and contradictory nature of many regulations, of the components of our tax system, whether they concern direct tax or indirect taxation or property tax. And I would say that every new government has the initiative, it has the time to open up the dialogue on what we call a 'national tax system'. There's no way a new government can't go from convicts to patches. The Ministry of Finance has today brought us three or four tax bills under the urgency procedure and many other amendments. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what people are asking for, the market, the wage earner, the retired person, the professional worker is stability, the right of the tax system, the rules governing its operation and cultivating its fiscal conscience and efficiency. And this initiative is taken every time by a new government. The PASOK, when it became government in 2010, took this initiative, but the conditions did not allow it to be completed. You, Minister, now have the responsibility of opening up this debate, which must take the form of national social dialogue and a system's stability agreement to be fairer. Because now, yes, you're making some fair improvements, I'd say, of located extremes, but the character of the system, the one you denounced, you don't change it. Nor do you change the coefficients, you change the tax-free rate. We will therefore vote in favour of these regulations, to which I shall refer very briefly, with this comment. And I believe that it is an observation that also has a form of contribution to the major issues that the government needs to open up and discuss, so that we can go to progressive policies and do not constantly blocking if, of course, the country stands up and can discuss progressive policies. I say, therefore, that the provision of Article 1 which does not calculate the presumption of those who have a tax home abroad, I believe that it is, in principle, right, not to think wickedly that some will be able to use it to get away from the presumption. Because in Greece we are and everything can be considered. The other provision of Article 1(2), which refers to the non-calculation of the presumption of up to EUR 9 500, when income is only from capital, namely those who have a small deposit, was also an extremeity of the system, which is why it did not apply last year. The provision of paragraph 4, which deals with those who have an income of up to EUR 6 000, without being entrepreneurs, that is to say someone who went to a programme or for some other reason, has acquired this income, that it will not measure the presumption and that over EUR 6 000 the presumption will be calculated at the rate of business tax 26% - at its core is correct. I asked the committee why the EUR 6 000 threshold was set and that is not the same as the EUR 9 500 presumption threshold. The Minister gave an answer. He solves it one way, but I don't know if he's the one who's completely right. In any case, it makes an effort to tackle a specific problem. Now, for practicing the agricultural parcels, there is obviously a bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen. But the curator and the system give the objective values. Neutral is the result - and I would like to point out - because the one who has to pay a tax on proprietaryity, the cost will take it away from his income and will thus have the same effect. Let me not tell you that he would also be beneficial, because in one case the tax is 11%, and in the other case it is 13%. Anyone who has the ability to make the bills can count it. In any case, let us assume that it is a censorship of the system, which would not offer much. I told the committee - and I would like to point out - that VAT is a neutral tax in relation to intermediaries, namely business, professionals, and the consumer is finally paying him. Consequently, the government's regulation has a neutral budgetary effect. It is a regulation that makes it easier for some to avoid paying the tax and then enter the refund procedure. I note that this is done in all investment goods. So, if we should have a better deal with the issue of delays in committees, we should also see it with a wider eye. I cannot accept that a small professional or a small industrialist, in any case, who makes an investment, will be inconvenience to the tax lawn in order to get the VAT on investment goods back, because his income does not allow him to offset either the first or the second year. I do not accept, in other words, making a privileged arrangement for one category of undertakings when the rest of them are tormented. We shall also be voting in favour of the provision for the discharge of the victims of NORMAN ATLANTC from the donation tax. That makes very sense. I have asked a number of questions about the redefinition of net profits in tobacco companies, Article 5. So this redefinition also concerns pending cases in justice? The Scientific Committee of the Parliament has pointed this out. And if someone, considering that the previous arrangement has contributed to him, has signed and finished his case, will he find himself in a worse fate than the ones that will be redefined? I don't know if you can give us an answer. I also said that it is good to avoid the suffering of counterparties because the process of HIS certificates was very bureaucratic and not to create nullity in acts and transactions. In no case, however, does this mean relinquishing those who have circumvented the provisions or, in any case, leading to a process where the notary will be ignorant to check whether the traders have fulfilled their obligations in relation to the ENPI. We, with these remarks, have said so to the committee, and I repeat this here - will vote in principle. After the removal of Article 3 for which we had reservations. We'll vote for the rest of the articles. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not doing this to be pleasurable to some who, in any case, waited for their problems to be solved and benefited. We do, because we have shown here in this Chamber that what we believe is right, we are voting on it. And because I hear too many SYRIZA colleagues in the media saying, "But we have not voted for PASOK, we have brought the humanitarian crisis, we have brought the 100 doses," I would like to say to you: we have voted for all of this - I remind the Greek people - and we have explained why we are voting on it. We are voting for them, firstly, because we are not the same. You, you didn't vote for anything. Even radical changes, as were the financial prosecutors, such as opening up the accounts, all of you considered them to be commemorative. Secondly, we are voting for them because they are moving on to a logic that we, ladies and gentlemen, had fought and supported, as we had voted for the hundred doses, which some in the media falsely say, has never been the law of the state. We also voted for the minimum guaranteed income, which gives more than your own humanitarian crisis bill, and which, I am passing away, I read here in the newspapers' papers to tell us what is going on in Brussels, that you are committed to implementing it. It's in what we found out you're under obligation. The rest I hope Mr Tsipras will say tomorrow to Mrs Gennimata, who will meet and signal the process of national consultation and dialogue, in order to find a solution to the deadlock in which the country has stumbled, under the responsibility of the negotiating tactics, which the SYRIZA Government has so far carried out, its ministers and the contradictions to which she has made. That's what I'm closing down with. If the Minister speaks, I will hear her denial as she first spoke, to see if she gives us a convincing explanation of Article 3 and his withdrawal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. You have already urged and drawn up the national consensus policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u198	Shouldn't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u199	Do you want to say something, Minister - something Mr. Koutsoukos asked - and close?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u200	I would like to make a clarification in relation to tobacco, because perhaps a word should have been added to the explanatory statement. Where he says, '... and litigation ends', perhaps the words'repeals' should have been added, that is, '... and the litigation ends'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u201	Yes, sir. Let's look at it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u202	Because, as we all know, it is not appropriate for us to decide and intervene in cases of justice in progress. However, by changing the legislative basis of these judicial disputes, it is practically terminating, because there is no longer any reason why those who have sought to continue. It is clear that the judges themselves will, of course, see this change. About Article 3...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u203	Retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u204	That's right. I said, therefore, that because it is a great deal of money and because for some of the companies, the framework of the return has to be more precisely regulated, because they may owe workers, workers, the PPC or the CEC, we will look into it better and build a more specific legislative framework if this money is returned. That's right. In other words, you cannot have a category or two - because some others have subsequently come out - of raw materials of an energy character, which are used as raw materials - I say it again - not as fuels in industry and which are uneven with all other energy products as raw materials. All these companies are using them a little bit. But we want to tighten up what will happen as long as this money is paid back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u205	You don't have to answer. After the article has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u206	It's obvious why we're doing it. It will come back when we are ready to identify this more specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u207	Yes, sir. The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-15-S1-commons.u208	With the consent of the House at 21.25 the meeting is closed tomorrow, June 16, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate and adoption of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Amendment of the Code of Income Tax and other provisions".
