ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions for the implementation of the Financial and Structural Reform Agreement". This bill, in accordance with the decision taken by the Standing Parliamentary Committees on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with this procedure, the debate is being concluded in principle and on the articles in a meeting. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I suggest that, although not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, five speakers from SYRIZA, three speakers from New Democracy, a certain speaker from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, a certain speaker from the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, a certain speaker from the JRC, a certain speaker from Potami and a certain speaker from the Independent Greeks, as well as a certain speaker from the Central Association. I also propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. As far as time is concerned, the proposal is that the rapporteurs and special speakers should have twelve minutes of speaking time, the competent Minister, 13 minutes, the responsible Deputy Minister, ten minutes, the remaining ministers and State Secretarys, eight minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, 14 minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups, 12 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, ten minutes, the speakers appointed by the parties. Dentality is limited to half the time of protology. Finally, in accordance with Rule 109, the meeting shall be concluded within a maximum of 10 hours. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u2	No, Mr. President. I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, we have become addicted to the urgent procedure and, as has been said yesterday in the committees, the terms are ultimately reversed - yours. Let the government tell us, since everything is urgent, what it will not be. Here is an addiction in this House. I advise you to see the film "Polette's recipe", you in particular, Mr. Ministers, who are so happy with the urgents. In this addiction we will not join, Mr President. There was a question in the committee yesterday, it would also be in plenary and it would be done every time. We will return to the regular legislative work and, exceptionally, whenever necessary and whenever there are reasons clearly much more important than respecting Parliament's Rules of Procedure for the ordinary legislative procedure, we will see it. But this, every week, one or two urgent drafts of law cannot continue. And the National Representation must be awakened, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u5	What are you talking about? Say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u6	Please, sir. Please! "Having children" we said about the legislative acts and you took it on you. In the tenth hour, like several provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we shall see that in its relativity, Mr President. For example, yesterday, with the consent of the majority, we saw institutions. We've done this before. The tenth hour won't be observed. You'll give us the opportunity to talk. The draft law will not be passed here. You'll give us the opportunity to talk. The government has, as Mr Tsakalots explained yesterday, its reasons for urgently wanting this to be voted on. The committees yesterday, by a majority, accepted it, but after a strong debate. And today I tell you, starting with the tenth hour, that you cannot keep it strict and say to us, especially after noon, 'Stop it'. We're not done! I want you to tell us from now on whether you're going to be relaxed in ten hours. We need time, ladies and gentlemen. We need time, Mr President. We therefore disagree with the way you raised the matter. We want you to promise us that you will be quite 'broad' on matters of time, so that we can, even in the urgent procedure, be given sufficient time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Loverdo, as you know, the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u8	They won't get out of here! It's over! That's the end of this story!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Loverdos, as you know, the Bureau has a timelessness. As he treats himself in the previous sessions, if you like, he will behave today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u10	No, no, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u11	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u12	No, I would remind you that at the previous sitting, which we had again urgently tabled a draft law, the President of the Parliament explained why he had to be observed in the tenth hour, not legmatically, so that we could apply the Rules of Procedure of the House, which says about the tenth hour in Article 109, but why there was some international obligation in the country. Accepted. There's no today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u13	There isn't?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u14	I followed Mr. Chakaloto yesterday, who said we had to finish for the $1 billion. He didn't say 20:00 or 19:00 tomorrow night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u15	All right, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u16	Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u17	Please, the President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, the exact same reason that was in existence last time is now that the dilemma has been observed. Otherwise, it is obvious that there would also be minimum flexibility by late night in order to have a more substantial debate. We're not talking about it. Nor is anyone happy when they come as a matter of urgency to discuss bills in here. This is the second time because they are the second prerequisites.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u19	No, no, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u20	And I hope that this urgent procedure will be closed in the next month. I repeat - and Mr Loverdos knows that - that no one is happy when so short-sighted procedures are carried out, particularly when Members do not have time to study. Because that's the most serious issue. Because it was posted on Saturday night, the committees were held yesterday, etc. That is why you have rightly announced that it is a rather intermediate procedure for others to speak and not just a number of rapporteurs in any case. In other words, from each party - apart from the two government and Officerial Representation - at least four will be allowed to speak during the day, which is relatively enough within these time frames, in order to unfold the views. However, it is not a matter for the Bureau to tighten it up for the tenth. We'll have to be done by 20:00 because there's...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u21	No, no, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u22	There is no 'no, no'. I would like to say that I know from the government - and if Mr Chakalotos did not tell you yesterday, I say this here officially - that there is a need until 20.00 hours the time to be done. Because there are procedures...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u23	No, no, that's not it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u24	How are they not? If it is, it should be put to the vote or, in any case, with the statement. As you think. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u25	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, protect us from Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u27	The fact that they will pass unrelentingly or unchewed is clear. All Mr. Loverdos interprets when he says that we want things to be done differently. There was no such time-consuming possibility. And we know very well where the votes are going. We will hold a Conference of Presidents tomorrow as a matter of urgency, not on Thursday, but on Wednesday, to see the whole of the programme, because it seems that we are going to go until the next Wednesday, while we were talking about going until Tuesday. In addition to the cohabitation agreement, the bill has also been submitted with the same measures as the government, but not as an emergency. We'll see how we handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. From the President's answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, there is no such thing. Excuse me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u30	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u31	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u32	Remove my word. That's all you have left to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u34	You have the floor, Mr Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u35	Mr. President, we're next, aren't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, it is not accurate - and Mr Chakalotos told us yesterday - that the procedures are so urgent. Yesterday Mr Tsakalotos said this: first of all this money is not lost. They go to the ESS and there's a procedure to be done. It's the country's money. They don't get lost. He did not tell us that we have an urgent procedure that obliges us. In any case, the committee has decided. This does not mean that there should not be sufficient time for discussion. Secondly, I will follow with great interest why the government will justify tabling last night's bill on the non-existent programme - not a parallel programme, non-existent. Last week the Prime Minister remembered the movies. This week he testifies to the film "Woman I shrinked the parallel program". That's what we see. It is not possible to continue the emergency and emergency procedure and to come a bill last night, which will be urgent or urgent again. I would ask that this practice be stopped, because it is essentially the Parliament itself. The government needs to be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u39	The Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, we have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u41	But, Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u42	He asked and has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u43	I think it must be clear that it was urgent. It was put to the committee yesterday, and there is no point in interpreting what was said by the government yesterday in committee. The urgency is extorted by the fact that there is a procedure for applying certain agreements, which are linked to the financing of the Greek economy, as agreed. Yesterday, Friday, the second cycle of agreements was closed, which related to the disbursement of one billion in the year. The fact that there is no urgency on this double element is misleading, because if this procedure is extended for the new year, this one billion yes to Greece, but it should be reinstated in the process of approval by Parliamentary countries, where necessary and will be an extensive procedure in time. The urgent need therefore arises from the fact that there is the agreement that has been reached. Disbursement of the instalment depends on the completion of the Euro Working Group, Eurogroup's procedures this week, and this should be done on Friday. The urgency of this is justified, despite the fact that, as the government has said to all tons, it is clear that, with the exception of the suffocating time frame of application of the agreeds - which, I would remind you, had two key points, the circle of the forty-eight prerequisites, the agreement we are bringing today, the recapitalisation of the banks and all this within a two-month period have been implemented, so the urgency has been justified - the government's intention is clear and given. In other words, any procedures are not evaded by these strict time frames, which help to stabilise the Greek economy and to recapitalise and refinancing it, they will obviously not have the character of urgency or have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. Mr. Brutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I am addressing my fellow SYRIZA Members, but in particular the Minister. Minister, if there was the possibility of pressing a button and turning a little bit of time back - not very, a few months - and seeing what you were talking about and how you and your party would behave in similar cases, be sure - and I am sure - that you would not feel well at all. This is where we have exceeded, ladies and gentlemen, every limit. We have entered new parliamentary customs. You have transformed the government into a 'government of urgency'. And I do not know how you are consciously justifying this in the world you are meeting, but at least Parliament has turned it into a new stranded path. Mr President, I have heard the Minister try to justify the speeding up of proceedings because of the Memorandum of Understanding. Well, at least, little sensitivity to the part of non-remembrance obligations, isn't there? Because I would remind the House that we, as a government in the past period, did everything that was not on the basis of the urgent obligation, made it out of the bill. And I ask, Minister, that the new structures, which are bureaucracy, which is a customer relationship, which you put to the ministries, are a Memorandumary obligation? Is the wage to which you give rise to arrogant increases to your own people who you put to ministries, as civil servants, a Memorandum obligation? Why are you putting this in? One more thing, Mr President, particularly important... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't laugh, gentlemen, I'll see you in plenary. You choose your own customers, you make unprecedented legislative interventions, you increase wage scales for your own people...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u46	Don't judge the weirdo yourself. Don't judge your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u47	...and you have the nerve to talk? You've made a client relationship with the whole House. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Mr. President, I'm closing. I see the Deputy Minister of Social Security next door. I do not believe that you will surprise us with amendments to such issues and bills, which take the form of urgency. We're waiting to see his presence here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Brutsi, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u49	...attendance, but I don't think you're going to surprise us again with amendments and provisions that have nothing to do with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. Mr Famelos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, unfortunately, colleagues from the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left are taking their inner-party controversy into Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u52	Mercy now. Mercy! Say something new.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u53	It seems that the major problems faced by the opposition parties and the inability to address Greece's serious issues pose serious problems in the parliamentary process. Unless one has to assume that the problem they have with television attendance obliges them - all colleagues - to raise issues in the House, to play the channels. We, ladies and gentlemen, feel very consistent about the work we have undertaken, which is to keep Greece up, the Greece which you have done in the last position of Europe, Greece, which had a very great potential, but you have literally sold out and paid off both economic and socially, as well as administratively. And the commitments we have received are registered in the agreement, which you, of course, have had to support in order to keep your parliamentary presence, but now you suddenly forget it, and within this agreement, included all the issues that are today in the bill. Of course, it is hypocrisy to hide that the NRP was necessary to pass today, because otherwise the resources up to 31/12 would be questioned. Because you want to hide that Greece was the first country to certify a management system for the NRP. I don't understand why it hurts you that Greece is getting ahead of its obligations and is the first in Europe...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u54	That's what we did. You didn't do it. These are ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u55	...as also, why he won from negotiating for the big roads that exceed 120m euros, which you wanted to give to the big-estate people. All this has come to an end now, and I think, Mr President, that it is hypocrisy when it was made clear yesterday in the committee what the environment is, that today there is a debate on the time of the parliamentary procedure. It is absolutely right that what was discussed in August was repeated yesterday in committee and closed today, keeps the country upright, because tomorrow the funding is being discussed in the European institutions. And this is used for opposition reasons at the expense of the country's interests. Please complete the process on the basis of the tenth hour and stop the theatre and the theatres from the opposition, which have no real basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u57	That's exactly what I wanted to say. Stop the theater because it's now becoming ridiculous for all of you. It's ridiculous. And I am addressing the world and not the House - it makes no sense - to those who may be following this debate in the morning. First, we've already lost thirty-five to forty minutes. What's that for? It's clear. The Government unacceptablely denounced all tons, etc., by means of urgent procedure. And it doesn't come once, it comes all the time. Secondly, the functioning of the House has been abolished in the sense that it has Monday, Friday parliamentary control and the other days it has legislative work. That's what we forgot. Thirdly, we do not know the procedure has been in place for too long. That's the reality. And what do we have here now? Because the student surpassed the teacher, and I mean that the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence went beyond the New Democracy - PASOK - does not mean that the teacher is innocent. I mean, it's a joke. It is also ridiculous, because we have five years now when we are operating in this way, with urgency. And all the confrontation that has been taking place since this morning is not about the substance, it's about the impressions. We disagree, it is well known that we disagree with these procedures. That is why we are saying the next few times, because that is how we seem to be going soon every party will be placed seriously and not waste time and proceed with the proceedings, even though we say that they are unacceptable and do not agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u58	Mr Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u60	If you want Mr. Loverdos to lead, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u61	Please, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, you are doing so on purpose!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u63	Is the remembrance over?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u64	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u65	To continue with the remembrance and to remind the people's wisdom says that "two donkeys fought in a foreign barn". The New Democracy voted for the Memorandum - an agreement called it, they both agreed, and SYRIZA and New Democracy, to call it an agreement - on August 14, 2015, the so-called, badly, left memorandum, because it is not a left memorandum, it is also a right-wing memorandum. So now, what's the rustle of the New Democracy? They voted for the prerequisites and to take our homes, the first residence of the loan sharks and the bankers prerequisites were the agreement and the memorandum. Why are they fighting? We admired the supporter of the popular games the KKE S.A. He said: 'We disagree but let's move quickly on to finish'. We fully disagree with the procedure. This bill, the prerequisites, is unacceptable and we will vote against it and will stand a rock on the side of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u66	Put the swastika on that S.A.! Fascist face! Whitlers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, it should be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u68	He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u69	Sit down now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u70	Please, Mr. Paphie!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, take him to class!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u72	Please, Mr Pafile, first of all, take the floor without asking for it. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u73	Why didn't you interrupt him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u74	I don't have the right to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u75	Don't you have the right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u76	And I have the right to interrupt. Please write everything in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u77	Hey, what are you talking about? Discontinuation? Do I have to remove the reason? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u78	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u79	Mr Loverdo, everyone said not to talk too much about the parliamentary representatives, because Members do not speak. Please, you have spoken. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u80	There was an urgent debate, Mr President. And thankfully, for maintaining our dignity. The rule was not that in the past few years. It was done, and maybe sometimes. But not once or twice a week. These are unprecedented! And I have proved, by means of a document I have tabled, that the acts of legislation adopted in the last year, in the last ten months, do not have a precedent. Perhaps not, however, understood, Mr President: in addition to yesterday's debate in the Standing Committees, I raised another issue today, the issue of the thirteenth in accordance with Article 109(4). Letters we know here. The issue of the dilemma in yesterday's speech by the Minister of Economy seemed to be not necessary. See the Minutes and respect the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u81	But now, with what procedures...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u82	The theme of the occupant should be seen loosely. And if you don't see it, the National Representation will see it on its own. You should see it loosely and give us the opportunity to express our views. We said urgent. It was voted by a majority of yesterday's committees meeting. All right, but compliance with Article 109(4) should not be strict. Mr Tsakalotos was put on the agenda yesterday, both on urgent but also on other issues in detail. If you look at his speech, you will understand that what the President of the Parliament is saying is not right. So our disagreement, beyond the urgency, is also at the point in the decimal place. This should not be the driver of your own - on behalf of the Bureau, namely - the broadening of the debates.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u83	We have to move on. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u84	And I'm sorry, but if we had to start - you're in a hurry now - you'd have to come on time. You started 20 minutes late. You!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u85	Now, Mr. Loverdos, make an observation that you are not given the floor is a sin. The parties have sent a letter to the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, setting out their special speakers. It is Panagiotaros for the Golden Dawn, Mr. Konstantinopoulos for the PASOK - DIMAR, Mr. Karathanasopoulos for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Theocharis for the Potami, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos for the Independent Greeks and Mr. Marios Georgiadis for the Central Association. Parliamentary Representatives are defined as Mr Brutsis for the New Democracy, Mr. Papapas for the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr. Loverdos for the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR, Mr. Pafilis for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Danellis for the River, Mr. Karras for the Centroon Union. Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing this bill on the roadmap out of the crisis. The roadmap for the crisis is, first of all, a democratic one, so it requires consensus and participation of all the social forces involved in the solutions that are being promoted, and of course we are primarily responsible. Secondly, for the reconstruction of the economy and the state, we know that radical changes are needed and we adopt these prospects. But the reconstruction of the economy goes through the normalisation and reconstruction of the banking system. We are intervening on its rationality and viability. This in turn requires two things. Firstly, a solution to the problem of red loans and, secondly, an end to the customer establishment. Red loans are a loop in the system itself, a stress for society and a suffocation of the economy. We started solving the problem by protecting the first residence and regulating the red loans that concern it. We continue with the loans of large enterprises today and we close this cycle on 15 February with the consumer and other housing and the loans of small and medium-sized enterprises. The previous policy of continuous deferring and switching the problems gloated the problem, expanding the deadlocks, mortgaged any possibility of resolving it. But we, who are not the same, are looking at the problem in the face, taking the responsibility of pushing things forward. We are bringing the good news of the solutions, attaching interventions to unfolding an alternative perspective on this issue. In the second part of the state reconstruction on the basis of these Union solutions and rationalisation, it is the correction of the wage-rate structure. This legislative intervention is not a reform, but it is a good basis to develop all our initiatives with a view to radical reform of public administration and the wider state. The good news continues because, not only do wages fall by 1 cent but the majority of civil servants increase their wages even a little. It's a signal of changing things, a stop to the downhill, it's the beginning of a change of course. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions is composed of seven chapters introducing provisions on non-performing loans, reforming the new rate of payroll so as to address distortions and injustices caused by its application, introducing arrangements for the competence of Ministries of Education, Health and Rural Development and ratifying the two specific agreements amending the concessions of major road projects. As far as non-performing loans are concerned, first of all, before everything is applicable - the Katseli Act is in force. The first chapter relates to non-performing loans, which are a huge - both social and economic - issue here too. As a consequence of our election programme, where we were looking for a secondary market for the regulation of non-performing loans, we adopt it and thus avoid uncontrolled sale of loans and shield the rights of borrowers. The way opens up any transfers of loans that can lead to debt restructuring that will alleviate households and businesses, as they are potentially better than banks can do. At the same time, insurance systems are being put in place so that there are no aggressive moves by the companies to which the loans will be transferred and for borrowers the same protection will continue to apply. In addition, all claims under consumer credit contracts, credit contracts with mortgage or addition, loans and credits granted to small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as loans guaranteed by the Greek State, which are fully exempted, are excluded from the framework of application of this Regulation. The sale of the loans authorised by the draft law is limited to loans to large enterprises. It is a small piece, but it is about loans with a nominal value of about 42 billion, while for the remaining categories the new regime will be shielded, it will be clarified in the next round of negotiation. In any event, the sale of up-to-date loans shall be prohibited. In addition, a strict regulatory framework for the licensing and operation of companies has been achieved in which the requirements can be managed or transferred from non-performing loans. Most of the relevant issues are dealt with in this law and are not referred to the Bank of Greece, despite the objections of the institutions in both cases. Another important point is that the legislation in question explicitly stipulates that 12 months before offering for sale the requirements of this draft law must have been proposed to the borrower and the guarantor by means of an extrajudicial invitation to adjust his loan so that it becomes a service. The purpose of the arrangement is to prevent the debtors from being surprised who are given the opportunity to settle their debt before the claim is granted to third parties. In addition, the type of companies that can be entrusted with the management of the claims and the transfer of claims from non-performing loans is determined. The terms, conditions and supporting documents for granting the relevant licence are also described, and the conditions for terminating the company’s activities and for suspending or withdrawing its licence are also regulated. It is noted that in order to obtain the licence, it is necessary to certify the shareholders' identity both to ensure transparency and to address the risk of money laundering from criminal activity. The supervisory framework for these companies is established by the Bank of Greece. The minimum share capital is set at EUR 100,000 and issues are regulated on their board of directors. The Bank of Greece is allowed to carry out, whenever it deems necessary, on-the-spot checks on these companies. Finally, with the arrangements introduced, the position of the borrower is protected, as it is ensured that, during the transfer or delegation of management, the consumer protection framework and special care for vulnerable groups, as is the case in the legislative framework. The second chapter of the bill relates to the single payroll - a rating, which has been particularly concerned with us. The second part of the bill reshapes the single payroll so as to address the problems arising from its implementation or non-integrated implementation and correct the distortions and inequality created by v. 4024/2011, as is, for example, the continued suspension of grading promotions, the exceptions to entry into the single wage, the grading scales of transitional provisions and others. As stated in the explanatory statement, the new system of fees introduced is subject to the following principles. In equality and merit, ensuring the maximum performance of the officials and the financial adjustment. Therefore, the following significant changes are taking place. The level of pay is dissociated by the introduction of a number of pay scales for the ranking of officials. In particular, thirteen pay graduations are provided for officials in compulsory and secondary education and nineteen salary scales for officials in technical and university education, while the ranking is based on the years of pre-service and the formal qualifications of officials. A promotional salary classification is provided for officials with postgraduate degrees, doctoral or graduates of the Public Administration School. Under the new law, the payroll of the general and special secretaries of the Ministries, posted officials, special scientific associates, special scientific associates of independent administrative authorities, lawyers and others is included. Different wage trends shall be established according to the category of staff member's training. Three years are for compulsory and two years for officials in technology and university education. There is provision for the time-limit for promoting the wage evolution of employees, in an attempt to directly link the wage provisions to the law on the evaluation of civil servants, and will apply from 1-1-2018. It increases by 14% the liability allowance. It is planned to link the employees' wages to the description, classification and evaluation of jobs. The allowance for dangerous and unhealthy work shall be maintained and shall be defined as beneficiaries of the benefit of border areas. Compensation for participation in collective bodies shall be abolished, with the exception of those financed by co-financed programmes. There will also be legislation here, because there are some ambiguities. In the form of a personal dispute, the actual amount of remuneration paid shall be ensured where they are reduced by applying the new scheme and shall be reduced in the future. Finally, it should be noted that with the inclusion of employees in the new system, there will be an increase in the basic salary for three hundred and fourteen thousand employees in a total of about sixty-seven thousand, which will be allocated gradually over four years - 25% per year - starting from 1-1-2016, in order to ensure a smooth treatment of increased wage costs. With the fourth chapter of the draft law under discussion, arrangements shall be introduced to remove any dispute in relation to the institutional framework of the EBRD projects, co-financed by the operational programmes of the EBRD 2014-2020. In addition, Article 23 of the Treaty is recast. Date of birth: 4310/2014. The legal form of objections which candidates are entitled to submit and the provisions of the n are repealed. Regulation (EU) No 430/2014 concerning research and technological development. With regard to the provisions of the Ministry of Health, it is attempting to uniformly deal with the provision of hospital medicinal products by public pharmaceutical structures. Thus, it is included in the existing expenditure ceilings and the pharmacy expenditure, in addition to which the automatic refund mechanism is applied, and the costs of the EEA pharmacy. The fifth chapter regulates issues relating to the production of local wine, the use of the term 'local wine', the protection of the viticulture and the operation of oenological laboratories. Finally, two specific conventions concerning the 'MOREA' and the E65 are hereby ratified and become applicable. It's two contracts that have stopped. There has been a revision of the level of expenditure. We have already won EUR 120 million from this negotiation and we are making sure that the money is disbursed this year so that these projects can be completed. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's bill already held in committee - and this experience I can pass on to you - has shown that we can and shall bear the burden of the necessary changes. The forces of yesterday, not only do not vote, we do not demand this, but they refuse to discuss, propose, disagree and ultimately refuse to place themselves. It's an irreversible course of avoiding reality for them, it's in a lasting denial, in a constant mourning, probably for what they've lost. There is nothing we can do about it but follow this course of responsibility and on behalf of all - and even the absent - from the whole political spectrum. We take the responsibility of moving things forward, opening the paths of reform, returning dignity to its place and hope to the heart and mind of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Dimitriadis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Painland. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur, Mr Brutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u88	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u89	Excuse me, Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u90	You've confused it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u91	Well, because I saw the list here. Mr Hatzidakis, I beg your pardon, but Mr Brutsi asked for the floor and I thought he was the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u92	It's all right, Mr. President. After all, you are not obliged to know the anthropogeography of the New Democracy. If it was Mr. Kaklamanis, I would have complained. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read to you something that someone at the committee meeting yesterday said to me that it does not matter. But I'll read it because I think it matters, it's the Prime Minister's programme statements. "The government will give," the Prime Minister says in the schedule statements on October 5, "four battles. Firstly, the fight to regulate the so-called'red' loans, in which we seek to ensure the protection of the first residence for those who prove to be unable to pay, and at the same time to prevent the possibility of buying loans from the so-called disstress funds. And the Prime Minister adds to the programme statements: "Our main tools in this effort will be an intermediary that will intercede between the lenders and debtors involved in order to settle the debt off-courts" etc. Apparently like the intermediary that some might have the impression - I know? - that we vote today. The one who told me that it makes no sense to stand up to the inconsistencies of the government was the present Minister, Mr Stathakis, who said, about 'I don't understand how long you of the New Democracy would stand in the so-called', according to him, 'inconsistencies of the government'. And the question I want to address is. Is that a cynic attitude? Is the Minister telling us maybe we shouldn't take them so seriously? "Hey, we said something now, aren't you bored?" Or does he ask us to join the concept of "Flying Donkey"? Is she flying? Every fortnight, SYRIZA has a new repertoire and we join and monitor the repertoire of SYRIZA. Uh, no, ladies and gentlemen, from us, is the donkey flying? Flying' to forget it. On the contrary, we recommend you, since you have such perceptions, since you have exceeded every demagogue in the history of the country, to change the signal to your party and put the chameleon, because you are a political chameleonism party, that is what you are! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, your current red loans arrangements have undermined them on your own. You have been undermining them in the run-up to the elections, you have undermined them and you have mercifully undermined them with the Prime Minister's statements themselves. So, for our part, we clearly and responsibly go beyond the substance of the regulations, which - I repeat - you have undermined them, we highlight three things. The first is your dreadful relics, which are getting bigger if one stands at the heart of the arrangements. I am going to Article 3(9), which says that the application of the provisions of this Article - beware - is suspended in respect of consumer credit contracts and credits, credit agreements with mortgages or addition of a mortgage on first place, and loans and credits to small and medium-sized enterprises by 15 February. What does this arrangement say to just Greek? I say it and I want every Greek citizen to know. It says that if there is no specific law by 15 February, i.e. if the troika does not agree with the government by 15 February, the current provisions apply to all loans, regardless of their nature. That's what you'll vote for tonight. You should know that, because perhaps some people don't understand it. I say this for you, who so easily bailed against our own 'alternative' and 'neo-liberal' government. From there on, there are more in the provisions, but I don't have time to stand. In Article 3(4) there is also the following provision, which you will vote on. It says that the sale and transfer agreement referred to in paragraph 1 etc. it shall proceed independently of the unaccompanied party signed between the parties, i.e. the bank and the borrower. All of this does not conflict with the excipients. In other words, whether a borrower agreed with his bank that frauds are not assigned or not, that is not of any importance, this contract is abolished with today's law and everything is transferred to all these trillions of funds and corporations. The expressions are not ours, they are yours. Tonight, ladies and gentlemen, 'the first time on the left', you will vote on them! Prepare to vote and justify changing attitudes. The second point is that this problem has indeed become uncontrolled because of the policy towards the banking system of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I presented evidence yesterday. They are the official figures of the Bank of Greece showing that in December 2013 red loans were about 32%. In December 2014 it was 34%, i.e. two points up. Now, in June, 42% had been spent and the European Central Bank's assessment of 31 October, which the Minister called into question, but here I have a lot of publications - I cannot bring with me all the Greek press - was that they will go to 52% of the year. We had eighteen points of growth in a year! Too much success! You need to get out in your constituencies and be proud that from 34% in a year, the'red' loans became 52%. This is your success!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u93	In ten months, Mr. Hatzidakis. To be precise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u94	From that point on, we also stand on a third point. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a red loan law. It's the law that Mr. Dendias brought to the House, n. 4307, which provides that banks and borrowers can be encouraged to deal with this issue in a 'haircut' of loans. The law was passed, passed, and the presidential decree came out, but it was not implemented, because there was no decision on a supervisory board. You have not taken it off, ladies and gentlemen, and this is really what an excuse you are giving to the Greek people. The Minister bypassed this and said "you know, the banks did not want to implement it". The question is how many times the Minister called the banks and pressed them, because I had an established meeting with them - I personally - once every month. Because we too had difficulties with the banks, but as far as I know, this meeting was abolished and held at the level of officials. The laws need in particular in these cases and some pressure to apply them. So you, who - beware - did not vote for this law, because you considered it a bank centre, are today voting for the fund laws. Precise in the pie and cheap in the flour. That's your policy. And I would really like to know, regardless of what you're going to say to me in public, with your conscience to think about what you're doing, because you know here we're not speed runners, we're resurrectors. It doesn't matter the theatrical performances, it matters the result. That's what's gonna judge us all. We are therefore in a negative position, ladies and gentlemen, against these provisions, because we very simply do not want to rinse your recurring, demagogy, your inconsistency and, above all, your responsibilities for the appalling exacerbation of the problem of red loans. And since the bill is verbal, I come to a second point concerning public works contracts. We had a debate yesterday with Mr Spirtzi, an interesting debate. Mr. Spirji has come and brought us two previous government conventions. On the one hand, Mr Chrysochoidis had negotiated it with Mr Chrysochoidis and brought it almost self-evidently, in order for Mr Spirtz to approve it, a year later - he was running back because he was late - but the interesting thing is that, while he brought them to ratify it, he beat us for these contracts he brought! What can I say? Surrealism? Caffeum? "Modi Python"? [[Laughers in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] Let the government give an answer at last what is its direction. This direction of Monti Python was followed by Mr Spirtzis and by Mr Spirtzis on the subject of regional airports, who told me that I must be ashamed because I had prepared the contracts of regional airports, which he himself signed with soul pain! How much does that government want to drive us crazy? Really how much he wants to drive us crazy! Decide, ladies and gentlemen. You are clearly entitled to be left-wing, you are entitled to be right-wing, you are entitled to be chameleons, you are not entitled to be serious. At some point you need to solve these issues with yourself. I have this comment to make on Mr Spirtzi and on public procurement, and I would like to close my position on the issue of the single wage. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also noted yesterday, and I repeat this today: the provisions of the single wage in terms of their philosophy are positive. We had negotiated them in the last six months of the government of Samaras with Minister Mitsotakis, disconnection of wages and grades, more incentives to those who have higher positions, more pay to those who have higher positions, more rapid development for those who have university degrees and postgraduate degrees, but here you bring these arrangements with the following two features. Firstly, without any evaluation system. How can these arrangements work without evaluation? There is no evaluation system. You didn't like what the previous government did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u95	Did you like it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u96	Typically there's one forgotten 2011, and right now you're trying to convince us that you're going to be modernising without any evaluation system. Two. By the time you brought it to the House, you claimed that it was budgetaryly neutral, that is, that it did not have a burden on the budget and on the taxpayers. Yesterday you admitted - and I have here the reports, I read them to you yesterday, and I do not need to repeat them today - that they will have an annual burden on the State of EUR 150 million. The Minister accepted it himself. The question I would again like to ask colleagues from SYRIZA and ANEL is this: When you go to your constituency, having given EUR 150 million, with opaque criteria, in one category of the population, what are you going to say from islands to islands that have increased their VAT? What are you going to say to those who are from the countryside, from rural areas, to the farmers who are preparing to increase them further? And what are you all going to say to the pensioners, who, while giving these routines almost increases to a particular - I repeat - category of population, are you cutting off supplementary pensions? Or not? What are you gonna tell them? This policy of yours is nothing but modern and all other than social justice is just. And you must apologise to the great majority of the Greek people for following a customer policy. It's a customer and a socially unjust policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. With this policy - obviously a man who is primarily in favour of national understanding - you leave no room for understanding, because you distort the positions of opponents, because you distort the arrangements and the reforms, because you are moving without any compass, but above all you leave no room in the country, because the country needs a jump forward, and you unfortunately are the only leap that you can do is jump to surrealism. The Prime Minister last week from this party said that he was entitled to have some kind of prayer, because he is the youngest Prime Minister in the country's history.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u97	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u98	I would like to say to him, therefore, that with this poetry and with this line, I am afraid that very soon he will be the newest former Prime Minister in the history of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u99	With this side to sleep!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. A lot of applause, Mr. Hatzidakis! Mr Stathakis, Minister of Economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Hatzidakis, obviously you may have been a better Minister than me. I can accept that. Very active with the banks, unlike me. However, despite your activity with the banks, I would remind you that the Law has applied for nineteen companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u102	But why didn't you call us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u103	I repeat it for a pluralist time. Nineteen businesses after a year and a half of implementation of the law, which we will be prolonging - to see that we are not confronting - improved but also to change the way it works. I repeat. It's not our fault. That's the data we've received. Two. It's unfair to accuse us of all this shift. We have an agreement before the elections. I remind you for once. Before the elections. An agreement clearly, concretely, without new or old matters and this agreement so far, the government has gone ahead with it, implemented it, reached agreements, improved in many respects the agreed ones. So, why did the criticism of any other election thing? Wasn't the deal part of the data we went to the election with?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u104	The programming statements didn't say...?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u105	Please, does the programme statements not have the agreement in it? So the government's out...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u106	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u107	Please, Mr. Hatzidakis. Has the government come out and said in the election statements that the agreement, which we believe should - and has these points - we will not implement it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u108	The opposites, he didn't say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u109	Those were our programming statements? We talked about a parallel program. We're fine and we're moving on. We have talked about the positive and negative aspects of what has to be implemented and that is what we are doing. So, why did this shift and your attempt to constantly demean the fact that others were saying and doing more? I repeat: what was election in the paper, one - one we are discussing. We are also completing the procedures and we are trying to bring the economy to a stable monetary, banking and budgetary position. That's for granted. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Third point. You cannot read the article on 15 February, by suggesting that, as we are only discussing large business loans today - I repeat, large business loans! - as first home housing, consumer and small and medium-sized enterprises are excluded under the European definition - i.e. enterprises with a turnover of less than 50 million and with employment under the hundreds of fifty - are not released. Very large business loans are being released. We cannot play, implying that what is to be discussed and will come out of the framework, rules, regulations, protection and all that, will concern all of these categories of loans, which we want to protect. And that is the subject of negotiation before 15 February. So, don't worry, the legislation will come and we'll talk about the substance of the government then. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] In any case, because you raised me with a lot of conscientious issues to both of the speakers of the New Democracy, I would like to ask you the following question. You thought...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u110	Please, Mr Stathakis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u111	I'll be done in a minute. I was under the impression that you were free market worshipers, right or wrong. Today, the free market also assumes the viewers - and the institutions - that the free market will also give the solution to red loans. For a number of reasons, we believe that this is not the solution. That is why we are building a very tough regulatory framework and we are trying to provide balanced solutions that will prevent the free market from being resolved. I have heard you today not want any market at all. Do you have a conscious or political problem? You should at some point explain to us who you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u112	The special speaker of the People's Association - Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to make a historical regression. As today, eighty years ago, on December 15, 1937, Stalin's decree targeted the Greek community as a national suspect. With Nicolai Jezov's direcdy, Commissioner for State Security, Grecheskaya Operatsiya, the Greek company, where 500,000 Greek citizens were arrested and 90% of them were murdered. As for this bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u114	Stalin's pissing you off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u115	It's you. We have no problem, we simply recall historical events, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u116	You see him in your sleep and you shade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u117	Comrade! As for Mr Hatzidakis' question, when he asked at the end about the direction of the government if it had to do with Kafka, with Monty Python, we would like to make it easier for him: The direction of this government reminds him of the film 'Waken Vasili' more, where at some point the leftists who won the lottery have become the most right-wing capitalist, capitalist of all, have called at home the poet Fanfara with the poems, the 'black corps', and eventually the insane Vasilis says to them 'And the mind is blurred, say, I say!' This is happening at the moment in SYRIZA - Independent Greeks’ coup d'état, where other people said to the fore and now say exactly the opposite. They're trying to convince Greek citizens, but above all they're trying to convince themselves that they're called right and right. We heard the Minister of Defence last night, Mr. Kammenos, on Mr. Hadinikolaou's show, saying a lot, including a couple of very loud ones, such as if we were to give the loans to 10% of the loan to the loan sharks, the corpses, the distress funds, why not take them privately? Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. At night there's a vote. Do it, bring an amendment and let go of the lame words. He also said that the second chance for small and medium-sized enterprises should also be activated. We see how that happens! Taking them after 15 February - because this will happen - their remaining property is either business or business, since not so much the current coexistence but the previous one and before - they brought the country into this miserable, trissaic spot! Bring some prerequisites today to get your dose. And we see another degrading, demeaning process of indulgence, selling out the property of the Greeks, as imposed on you by the loan sharks - lenders, those who, until you've been colluded, swept them in the worst words, in obscene expressions, extremist characterisations, to the point where every three and a little fortress should intervene when he was not busy with the Members of the Golden Dawn. They are the ones for whom you burned Athens at once - and not just Athens - too many times, but too many times! And when you were hard to find, there was always the resolution of SYRIZA officials, like Mr. Lambrou. You made a phone call to Mr. Lambrou to get you defense lawyers or anything else. And now, with the third memorial, nothing! Not even a stone was thrown away, if it says anything about who the strings are moving, who are directing situations. And you've been manned to the alibi of the hectic lenders through a highly seductive, conflicting rhetoric of yours, such as - to remember and not forget - the seismics, the accounting control of their debts, the deletions of most of the debts, the government of the problem banks. We saw it. Who forgets the people's committees, where in various squares when it was SYRIZA opposition, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Varoufakis, after leaving their expensive homes, they went and talked to the polo and told him about various things they didn't even do when they became government? Remember what? The ‘No house in the hands of a banker’. We saw it the day before yesterday with the bank recapitalisation. We see it today with the prerequisites you bring. Remember what you were saying about the distress funds, which you are bringing now and where Minister Stathakis was justified in the context that is very hard? Yes, we see how hard the regulatory framework is! You are reaping the property of Greek private individuals, businessmen over 100 billion euros, to get just a bloom of one billion euros, which nobody will ever see. No free economy, nothing at all. The majority of them will automatically return for repayment of interest and nothing else. You are blocking the Greek Parliament. Of course, that doesn't say anything. Unfortunately, however, your demagogue and demagogy are experienced in the worst way by the Greek people. With the sale of all these loans in two instalments, it is slowly brought to you by 15 February - the last act of the drama will also be played. Distress funds will buy loans at 6% to 20% - max 20%, in very few cases - of their nominal value. We're talking about a cannabis case of infidelity. Really, after you give 6% of their nominal value to the loans, why don't you make this proposal to the borrower first? "You buy your loan at 6% of its value?". And if he can, you'll give it to him and the case ends nicely and nicely. But, you don't want to, because it's all an organized plan to rebuild the property of the Greeks. You have no security footage, Minister. The Minister is gone. Mr. Chakalotos replaced him. It is so shamefully colonial that the sale of the loans, not only of the red, but also of other serviceable, but of delayed loans, in which all the ravenous cords, the predators, re-reconstitute funds that had been closed because they had not been the subject of work, make consortium various funds among themselves to find the necessary funds to rebuild the properties of the Greek citizens, to pluck up the livelihood of the Greeks. "We have found a priest to bury five to six", which says our anger-like people, not to say anything else I have said to the Commission. "They found us bosoms, we were beaten by the gypsies." That's what's going on in our country right now. And you still have a very serious 'humanist' reason. You urgently need to find homes to house some tens of thousands of unhappy refugees or immigrants or illegal immigrants who leave their homes. Now, how can it be done and leave only the thirty-five, most of which are hemorrhaging, warlike - we have constantly evidence - that's another matter. And you need to find homes. Where are you going to get them? Aron - Arion, you'll throw the Greeks away to get the refugees. And because they have no money, the rent will be subsidised - now, what rent can that be! - by the UN and by some philanthropists of the type George Soros, of those who are working to break up the nations, the homelands, and especially in the Balkan region. Old, well-known story, but you don't see it and it'll have devastating effects for everyone. With these prerequisites, you are dismissing the Greek companies, because that is why. Whole branches of the economy will pass into the hands of foreigners. And there are minor branches and branches of major, national importance. But you are not taking any measures in this direction either. Finally, there are now hundreds of final court decisions in favour of borrowers. We demand that the Constitution stipulates that final court rulings are automatically considered as state law. If he wanted the state to help, it would have to do with services, with the executives, with whom he has to direct the citizens, so as to claim the lifting of the injustice that has been done against them by the banks. It is not possible that the time-consuming responsible for the destruction of Greece, those who constantly drop the boat on the rocks, come here again and again as self-determined saviors, be given many times, such as Mr Stournaras, the main player, the perpetrator of the bankruptcy of our country and the governor of banks that were - formerly of the Commercial, after the Governor of the Bank of Greece - and then as Minister, and seek consent. Why does Mr Stournaras ask for a consensus? Why is that his bosses tell him? Where is SYRIZA, where are the Independent Greeks who by July 5th had Stournara for the executive extract. And now they're best friends! They go and eat, they drink, they say it and it's all right. Finally, he passed Stournara, the lenders, the loan sharks and not what the Greek people wanted. He's got more prerequisites. There have been some provisions on the ESDP. And you say 'it's good', 'no, it was our provisions', 'they will come', 'they must be quickly, we must not lose the money'. Of course, the vast majority of the NSRPs go to a minimum, to specific ones. Even ten should not be the ones who have received 80% with 90% of the NSRF funds. And of course they don't go to primary production. They go into pockets mostly, go to fan works, decorative works, to works that have absolutely no value. And don't forget that yes, you get a program, it's the NSRF, but the other is a loan. Therefore, and through the ESRB programmes it continues to borrow and borrow and borrow the Greek state and the Greek people. You've brought some wage provisions that concern only the public sector. For the private sector, which is the backbone of the economy, no provision. And you have absolutely no prediction. Eldorado! Chaos! Everyone does what they want. The vast majority of unemployed come from the private sector. And those who work - you know very well what is going on - work one day a week, one hour a day, with some wages or pocket money. And no one cares about them! If we want growth, we need to look very seriously at the private sector, the real private sector, the one that brings growth, and not the various speculative funds that just come here to make a number of deals and do not offer a single job. You have provisions for pharmaceutical costs, clawback, rebate and various other very pleasant things, but they mean the disaster for clinics, for private businesses, for all those who owe them huge sums and cannot function, close and destroy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] If you want to be right, pay back what you owe them up to now and from now on make a new deal. And whoever wants to agree, let's move on with the new agreement. It is not possible to owe money to some for three, four, five years, to come to them and not to pay them back even the rest. And at the same time, these businesses - which have these costs, IKA, OAU, IKA - cannot pay if they do not have liquidity. There aren't even loans. And they don't ask for unreasonable things. They're asking for a set-off. They're asking for facilities to make arrangements until the state finds money, because they know the state's state's situation. You are absolutely not interested in the private sector! We read a good one in the fifth chapter: 'Constitution of matters relating to the production of local wine and the operation of oenological laboratories'. Very nice, but you two brought in and voted for the unprecedented one in this country a few days ago. Excise duty on wine! For the first time, a wine grower country has taxed this product when it does not put anyone else anywhere else. In the sixth chapter, we see amendments to major road projects and regulation of related issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It's what SYRIZA once had with the movement of "I don't pay", they went and lifted bars, they didn't pay, they did stuff there. They told the citizens, in the polo, "When we come to things, we will abolish the tolls, do not do that, there will be democracy, there will be dignity, order." But nothing! Since SYRIZA's arrived, new tolls have been growing across the road, across the national network, increases everywhere and only a few reductions to eat spoon. We also see all these major project scandals, where the contractors eventually remain unscathed. They don't mind. You didn't dare lie in the election, nor did you say that you were going to say. Not even a name! Here was Mr. Drasakis and the opposition pressed him, and he didn't say a word about names. 'We will say', 'we will do'. And finally a hug in the string. Nothing at all. You have not abolished Vorides' unacceptable law for self-sacrificing those who do not pay tolls. Why don't you do the same for anyone who doesn't pay another private person? They're going after him until he gets his money. Oh, no! Only for the big-timers, your friends, your donors! Truly, for all the narcotics throughout the national network, nothing. Did you ever get money back from someone? Oh, no. Nothing at all. For monopolistic practices in competitions, nothing! For the impunity of "HOCHTIEF", nothing! HOCTIEF ate 400 million euros from the Greek people. He collected the VAT. He's gone. It has also been justified in the courts, because you see the Simitis Government has, since 1996, had an agreement on Eleftherios Venizelos airport, where it was foreseen that it will be governed by English law and any disputes which will be resolved in Luxembourg courts. Therefore, there was 400m euros in the 'HOCHTIEF' and it was gone. And he came back because he's building the road again from Corinth to Patras, to Olympia Street and elsewhere. I'm fine! They've found the natives here and they're doing whatever they want. [[At this point, the end of the speaker's speaking time bell is being ringed.]] As for the New Democracy - to close - its opposition tactics have nothing to do with only supporting SYRIZA, because they are doing what they have done, and they would very much want them to do so themselves, they have nothing to propose. In addition, you voted for the third memorandum. You also voted for many of the previous prerequisites...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u118	Please complete, Mr. Panayotar.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u119	I shall also use my dentistry, Mr President. That's why I took some more time. In any case, I will recall again the phrase said by the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn: 'Two donkeys were fighting in a foreign barn'. Of course, there could also be a newspaper saying: “The donkey is flying? Yes, yes, it flys, because the party newspaper writes it.” Hello!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nineteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 36th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Odyssey Konstantinopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government is seeking proposals and fruitful criticism from the opposition. Yesterday there was a debate in the committee and, unfortunately, the Minister responsible did not respond to any of the issues that we raised to him. If you think that criticism is fertile - and we need to be and help us all - it means that, at the end of the sitting, the Minister brings forward proposals, answers what we tell him and whether or not he adopts proposals or positions of Members of Parliament. Unfortunately, this has not been done. All that happened yesterday was as a reaction - because Mr Stathakis always talks in general and vaguely and covers everything - was Mr Spirtzi's position. Yesterday Mr Spirtzis came to the House and said, "we are signing, agreeing, voting, but in pain." We sell the banks with 5 billion in the crows, but it hurts! We sell the airports and we put our signature on, but it hurts! You're wondering, is that what Mr. Pitsiola, your agent, said about supporting and selling airports, is an indication of Germany's support for the Greek economy? Who can we trust? Mr. Pittsiola or the Minister responsible, Mr. Spirtzi? And because the Minister says so many times, and I hope you understand it, today's bill is fragmentary. We all know that. The worst comes until February 15th. And since you're suffering a lot, I'm sure you'll vote for the insurance, agriculture and the red loans of the small and medium-sized ones with a pain! We wish you that! And you know what? Because SYRIZA is a painful story from the very pain, citizens slowly understand that. And I am sure that the citizens have understood the great mockery and the great lie. Ladies and gentlemen, you want proposals. I wonder, Minister: why did you choose the Rahai plus model and did not choose the Irish model that is a mixed system? We said not to be too left - go, come near the social democracies you want - but what you bring today is neoliberal. It is the Rahoi plus model! What changed by the state body you're giving it to the crows? And why do you not hear our proposal on the Irish model which is a mixed system? You want a proposal. Why don't you adopt her? A successful model. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as tourism is concerned, you have wondered - why are we talking about large loans - how much has a borrower been charged with 23% with the taxation you have brought in and voted on? Have you wondered how difficult his financial situation has been in order to be able to meet the new regulations you bring? You don't give him the opportunity and you give him greater opportunities to a foreign investor, to restructure, to come get the loan. Of course, the ministers won't listen. No one's watching or answering. Minister, you said yesterday - and I am pleased that you will bring in a new arrangement by 15 February. I want to ask you about the companies and the big business. Many of these companies have a red loan and all the other loans are up to date. Is it true that if you have a red loan, or all the debts are centralised, and your loan becomes red? Why, Minister? Is there such an arrangement? What are you going to do about it? And I want to explain - and we are not so much addressing you, we are particularly addressing the citizens - that this great political fraud both with the banks and the red loans, you will accept it yourself. I'm talking about political fraud on recapitalisation. I would like to remind you that Mr Michalis, your appointed executive, spoke in April and said that no new funds are needed in the banks. And Mr Stathakis, after the recapitalisation, accepted that the recapitalisation lost the public and the public. That is what you will accept, and in a very short time, in this law that you are bringing today. You spoke and asked you yesterday about loans guaranteed by the Greek State. You told us he had an exception, Minister of Finance. Mr. Stathakis told us. But what's your prediction of these loans from now on? What's gonna happen? What will be your legislative initiative on this? These loans relate to 2.5 billion, 3.2 billion says the Minister. Now we're going to the payroll issues, Minister. You wanted proposals yesterday. And we told you a proposition. We told you a specific subject. But Mr. Vernardakis came, spoke and left. I read in the press today that as far as the liability allowance for the head of nursing service is concerned, you have made a mistake and you will change it. But what are you going to do with the border? Are they or aren't the Serres in the border area? I wonder. Is Drama or isn't he a paradox? What do you think, colleagues? Is it or isn't it, Minister? You're gonna do something about it, or you're gonna tell your general analysis that everything's okay, bro, there's no question, what else? Two. On the one hand, you sell funds, cords, red loans, and on the other hand, you put on the single payroll, who? The S.H.I.E.L.D.! You put the officials of chambers in the uniform payroll, who do not produce public expenditure! Minister, you're also responsible for the chambers! Chamber officers shall not produce public expenditure. They have their own contributions. You, on the one hand, are neoliberal in red loans and communists in the Chamber of Commerce. Decide! Gentlemen, I address to you, the SYRIZA Members you know about the IKA committees. It gives people an opportunity to seek and go to find their right to not go directly to the administrative courts. This has been asked three times by the troika and three times he took it back. And now you're coming to abolish it. Will you vote for it? Will you vote, ladies and gentlemen? A little girl who wants to go and make his objection, will you take him directly to the administrative courts? Will you vote for it and at least hurt at least, Mr Stathakis? At least if you say that, too, it'll be a serious explanation. 'We will abolish it, but we will be in pain', at least, tell us that. I want to ask something, although Mr. Bernardakis is missing. Why are these increases related to the Secretary-General of the Ministry? Quite rightly a while ago, the President of Parliament introduced a reduction in parliamentary compensation. For the Secretary-General and posted officials of the Ministries through this provision, is their wages increased or not, Mr Stathakis? I'm telling you, it's growing. Are you going to change it or isn't it yours, too? It is also this within the more general relaxation: 'There is no problem', 'Come on, brother', 'For all here we are, we'll solve them'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done. At the NRP, Minister, yesterday you did not say a word. You said you'd talk about it today. I want you to know that the Minister, who makes arrangements with the NRP to serve the ministers and the alternates, builds a final unit for each. Because in the Ministry of Labour, Ms Antonopoulou and Ms Theano Fotoulou have disagreed so that the Minister would not ruin the carpet in any of them - he is a gentleman - he gave a final unit to Mrs Fotou and one to Ms Rania Antonopoulou. At a cost? It builds a possible special unit for the Ministry of Education's resources from the EMEA. All resources are just 100-150 million, as they will end. That'll cost something more, but there has to be. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a country of 10 million it will make thirteen different divisions in each region for intermediaries. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] In fact, such a pharanonic system in the NRP, which I do not know with whom you have agreed, I have never seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u122	With the regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u123	I'll be done. It will be demonstrated, Minister, if at the end of the day the management and the changes are in favour of the final beneficiaries or of a red tape system that you like. I'm on the highways. I'll say it again today, like I said yesterday. The phrase that you had about the highway complexion was Golden Dawn, which she continues to date. You accused us, conspired, and today you are voting for the same contract without changing a single party. And the worst part is that those who come to defend her have no sign of shame to ask for an apology. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons we are voting against the bill in principle. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, wait for the worst things that come until 15/02. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u124	The special speaker of the Communist Party, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, the Golden Dawn puppies, with one thing sleeping and waking up, with their hatred towards the communists. They also confirmed this today. But that's how Stalin and the Red Army immersed the red flag deep in the heart of Nazism. From this point of view they do well to see them as nightmares, and with our fear they will continue to exist as long as they still exist. Of course, that was the introductory. However, what makes it seem, beyond those of the golden winds, of the Nazis, is what the SYRIZA rapporteur said, namely that today's bill has good news, the good news of the day, trying, of course, to baptize the fish meat. It is precisely because today's bill, which comes under the urgency procedure, such as everything else, is a new package of prerequisites, which is, of course, part of the new loan agreement, the third memorandum and is, in essence, a tool for meeting the needs of monopolistic groups, large capital. And on the altar just to satisfy these needs, you sacrifice the people's needs. He claimed, in other words, that today's bill takes a further step in stabilising the economy and the financial system. It is true, but who is stabilisation for? Is it to satisfy the people's needs or to serve the monopolistic groups? Really when were you right, gentlemen of SYRIZA? When you said a few months ago that no loan would go into the hands of the distress funds or now, which, in effect, are you making arrangements in the first three articles, do you form the shell, create the ground, so that they can act on these distress funds and manage not only, but also sell non-performing loans to them? You can't be right then now. In this respect, therefore, the shell is now being formed through which these companies will act with the two types of public limited companies you are creating. One public limited company for the management of the loans and the other for the transfer of the non-performing loans, i.e. the sale. Anonymous companies, which will not operate under any of the margins the financial system and the supervisory mechanisms it has. They'll actually have an uncontrolled operation. Because all you're saying, all that you claim within the licensing conditions, only as funny jokes, not as anything serious, when, for example, you say that the Bank of Greece will find that the shareholders and consultants of the company have a good reputation, have sufficient knowledge, competence and experience to exercise their competence and meet the competence criteria. Are these the tools for supervisory, the serious, which you will be blocking the action of these old people, as you have said in the previous period? Is that why you're going ahead with the process of setting up with fast track procedures? Within 30 days of submission of the request, the Bank of Greece must have issued the approval for the operation of the companies concerned. Of course, even in cases where they do not apply and any inadequate, inadequate measures, the Bank of Greece may not be obliged to withdraw its operation. So he may not recall it with that logic. Why do you put the word'may' in it rather than the word'required'? And throughout this period that may have frozen the operation or even revoke the license, for those loans that have been pasted in their possession there is no impact. These companies will continue to exploit them. In fact, you are claiming, Mr rapporteur, that you are also putting strict protective margins on borrowers. What are these powerful protection patterns? Consumer Protection Code? Why are you baptising these companies in Article 1, paragraph 22, to suppliers? And will the Code of Consumer Protection and the Code of Conduct of Banks apply? So they, who are responsible for overcompensation, will also protect borrowers? And at the bottom of the script, why isn't there an explicit statement that the provisions of the Katseli Act apply? Why don't you put it in? Why isn't this explicit report? And you have only been left in two specific and explicit wordings, firstly in the Code of Conduct of Banks and, secondly, in the existing consumer protection legislation. Nothing else! Nothing else! The Katseli Act is not included in the protection measures of the borrower, much more so as any arrangements of a temporary nature, because by 15 February the loans of large companies, which are not served and the loans for the second residence, are included. In other words, for someone who makes a cottage or home in the village his father has left him, there is no protection. He can get the "dog" his loan. And, of course, after 15 February, you will bring in new legislation, including all the remaining loans and self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises and consumer loans and other housing, so all the rest. So, what are you doing now? You are shaping the shell and then its action will be extended over the next period. So we say clearly that, with these provisions, you are opening up the Caesar for non-persistent loans, for highly indebted people's households, for self-employed and for professionals. Second element. You celebrate the new payroll you bring. But what's that new payroll? You accept the philosophy of the 2011 payroll, what the movement has called it "pocket". And you accept this "pocket" function of 2011, incorporate it and broaden it. Is this the case, or is it not the case, that in 2016, on the basis of the budget, there will be a reduction in the cost of the wage bill of EUR 18,3 million for the following year? A few days ago we voted for the 2016 budget. There are fiscal adjustment actions, where you say that for 2016, there will be savings from the new single wage of EUR 18.3 million. Then what do the others claim when they say increases are being made? The new Republic, its rapporteur, is tearing his fingernails at the fact that 100 million will be given to civil servants. And it doesn't say a word when 330 million is given to contractors! This is social automation, making the private employee fight with the civil servant, who will share their poverty, how they share their poverty! Aren't you embarrassed, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Don't you have any disgrace? So this is your problem, how will the poor share their poverty? And you are trying to turn one social group towards the other, so that the large capital can continue to exploit the people and workers. And it is confirmed once again that you are the party of the bourgeoisie, the large capital party. And that's why you've come out in the cry, because you want the paternity of today's policy. And your rapporteur said this: 'But these arrangements that you bring to roads were our regulations, the privatisation of airports were our regulations, not your own regulations'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u126	That's what we say, they were ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u127	It was capital! Parenthood has it and you are employees of capital and you are fighting about who is the most competent manager, whether it is New Democracy and PASOK or whether it is SYRIZA the most competent manager of the needs of big capital. This has the paternity of this policy, and you are simply its employees and you want to prove to the great capital and the bourgeoisie - who have lost her favor - that you may be more effective managers of anti-popular policy. Thus, with the single wage - where there is no restoration of the losses suffered by civil servants over the past few years and is estimated at about six salaries - there are categories whose position is deteriorating, such as those of employees of compulsory and secondary education, such as certain categories of musicians, employers, teachers of ASEMEM, which are exacerbating their position in relation to the current wage. The areas receiving the border region allowance are shrinking. Heavy and unhealthy will shrink into categories that are now being taken, because you say you will use the best European practices. And of course, wage developments do not go hand in hand and are disconnected from the position and are linked to the evaluation of not only the same - and we know very well under which conditions and conditions the assessment will take place - but also the overall assessment of the position. And, of course, what you are doing is to increase the positional allowances to public administration officials, so that they can serve much better to restructure the state mechanism and establish it as an even more effective body for meeting the needs of large capital. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in two minutes. Corresponding logic arises that worsen the position of the people's family and the other arrangements, such as Article 41 for the claw back. There is expenditure of 570 million in 2016 on medicines, nursing and pharmaceutical expenditure. Now, with this arrangement you're doing, this 570 million will also incorporate the cost of the EOPY pharmacies. So, what are you doing? You are further reducing the total pharmacological cost. We therefore have a reduction in pharmaceutical expenditure on the basis of that logic. Who are they supplying drugs to? On the substance, in those who have serious problems - cancer patients and patients with rare conditions - and these medicines are usually very expensive. So, what do you do that way? You have a problem with the adequacy and timely provision of these very high-cost medicines for these special categories of patients, since the hospitals and also the Pharmacies of the EEA will have the cap of the reduced budget, i.e. there will be a problem in the patient's timely treatment. That's what you're doing. And of course, why would pharmaceutical companies supply drugs above the wall when they know they're going to return it? So there will also be a problem with the supply of these medicines. This is why the tendency to prescribe medicinal products by doctors is reinforced, with a view to reducing costs, but also a general tendency to prescribe medicines for treatment of another disease than the patient actually has. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I shall end, Mr President, with Articles 43 and 44, where what we call a free market is now revealed here. Both the previous government and today give a gift of 330 million to the great manufacturers with Article 43. What's he saying? Due to the capitalist crisis, the guaranteed yields in the contracts signed by previous governments with the major manufacturers are questioned. So the freedom of the market, which you worship, the private initiative and the business risk that they go to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u129	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's how they become businessmen? With the guaranteed return that if this is not guaranteed, then the state is intervening and supporting them financially, so that we do not have a reduction in profits? That's what you're doing. To avoid a reduction in profits, you give 330 million to large manufacturers. So, on the one hand, you tax the workers, increase the VAT, put a stop to consumption in wine, release the grapes from the place of origin, and, at the same time, apply the OECD toolbox and, on the other hand, put this money into the big chapter. From this point of view, the Communist Party of Greece, Mr President - and I thank you for the tolerance of time - is also voting against this bill in principle and on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u130	It's Mr. Theocharis' turn. There are two other special speakers left, and I would ask the Ministers if, after the speakers, one is to take the floor, the Bureau is to be informed in good time in order to make our planning. Mr. Harris Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, why two months after the election you have a problem, can you explain it to us? Why, after you told the truth in September, since you were the only ones who brought the agreement before the Greek people, after you negotiated it and went to elections, why do you find it difficult? Explain it. Can I talk to you? Because you lied. You lied even in September. I read from Mr. Tsipras' speeches. On September 13, 2015, in Keratsini: “To guarantee the protection of the first home from the auctions and the sale of red loans by banks in foreign predators fund. We alone prevented it from negotiating." On September 7, 2015, an interview within the framework of the IMI could be accompanied by a MoU Memorandum, but it is very different whether there will be a strong negotiation and claim, so that red loans may not go to the Distress Funds. In other words, there was no firm negotiation and claim. So, as far as this agreement is concerned, we are going to be called upon to implement and respect it is very different, Mrs Kalogeropoulou, if there is to be a firm negotiation and claim, so that the bank's red loans do not go to the so-called diverse funds, that is to say, to the 'cots' that will start chasing the borrowers and opening the auctions. This morning the bank calls to those who owe money, it already started. December 8th, 2015-December! - Alexis Tsipras at ERT1: "Otherwise, the banks will not be relieved if we stay like this. However, it must be in a way that will not pass on to the funds.' Panos Haritis: "The one that will pass into the hands of the funds". Alexis Tsipras: "Hey, that's what I'm telling you now. First of all, we want to rule out what we call Distress funds, that is, the'skins' of destruction. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spirtz threatened us with elections yesterday. This is a splendid field of glory. Do them. It fits your logic. Elections at all costs, as long as you keep in power. But you won't like the result. You may not see it, but you have a social collapse. But I think you know that too. You have tabled the parallel programme today. 'Alongside ruffles' we have to say it. We will look at it in detail, but it will come to the debate again as an urgent or urgent one, but I am am amplifying some of what has been seen in the light of publicity. JEPs for poor people. What does the poet want to say here? Will they take certificates of reduced formality? Is that the JEP of the poor? Will they do less transactions? Who really thinks about this? Surgery list. What's that now? You're gonna need a social certificate to operate? The SYRIZAs in a priority order, the others here? Establishment of compensatory training. After you've dissolved the entire day, the special treatment, now we're giving aspirins. I told you yesterday. Do as many elections as you like and defeat with triumphs and games but it does not make you sovereign of any game, it does not even make you useful. And I'm sure it doesn't make you an ethnic man, because these jokes have been heard. National ruler becomes someone with his work. I do not personally remember how many times Eleftherios Venizelos won, but I remember the permanentization of civil servants, the magnification of our homeland, the negotiations on contracts after victories and defeats of our country that have always been successful. That makes a political nation ruler. Not if he managed to sell red loans without opening a nose, not if he managed to stun the Greek. Let's say things with their name. Let's say truths at last. You've been the worst government since 1827. That's the painful truth. The only worst thing in the country is, unfortunately, opposition. That's the bitter truth. The country's political system went bankrupt. Because you're the worst government I don't have to tell you, everyone knows that anymore. You know that now, too. But why is opposition worse than you? To stand here more. Because you managed to convince her that the end of politics has come, that within the memorandum there is nothing to do but what the lenders tell you. This is your work, that there is no political risk. That's a lie. It is the self-determination of the government, of counter-population and, ultimately, of democracy. That's political cowardice. Even when you balance your budget, it is another Greece with 42 billion revenues and 42 billion expenses and it is another Greece with 62 billion revenues and 62 billion costs. It's two other countries. There is political risk. Even with 1 billion in the fund, there are priorities. How much social state? How many investments? How much do I cut out of pensions and how much do I pay contributions? You do not see that if you increase contributions, you will bring new unemployment and in one year you will ask again. Pensions or contributions? That's politics. The Greek people must understand the simple truth. Every euro we owe will be paid for by Greece. We're out of foreigners who would give you euros. They're done with SYRIZA's lies. Take the haircuts. If we can't pay it right away, they'll give us some time, with a low interest to pay for it later. But if we have to pay it with interest, what is the political issue? Why are we voting on and on what are we accounting for? But fairness in burden-sharing. That's the highest good. Justice. This euro must be properly shared between one social class and the other, between one generation and the other, between its living today and tomorrow's unborn. Is there 50% youth unemployment? Is there an average pension of 1,000 euros and an average salary of 700 euros? Can the poverty of families with children be greater than of retired people? Are there horizontal increases in all civil servants, just to save ourselves from the suffering to make an assessment? No, it can't. You're trying to convince us there's no alternative. You are making the policy and the role of all of us. It's wrong, and at least I won't accept it. There's an alternative. We can stand by, because our country still has great powers. But he wants a plan, not a sew. He wants strategy, not tactics. We decide that whatever problem we solve, we resolve it for at least ten years. I have already tabled ten proposals - axes for an exit plan from the crisis. I specialize here. A law on insurance and on any important regulatory framework, such as the tax system, which does not need to be revised for at least five or ten years, depending on the subject. That must be our only criterion, whether we support what you bring to Parliament. Institutional interventions, first the revision of the Constitution. Discrimination of powers, the non-existence of which largely allows corruption to reign. Convergence and elimination of party interventions in the work of the public administration, not the party state you appoint. Independent of justice, not interventions in the disciplinary court that are riding the prosecutors, such as the one you bring to the living agreement. Reduction of administrative obligations and optimisation of the framework in enterprises while tightening controls. Not to the irrational burdens, not to the illegality. Liberation of the economy from the bonds of the past. Modern Red Loans Framework, so that we do not need recapitalisation again. Not in the current 'cut-off' context. Strengthen competition so that everyone has equal opportunities. Not the bartender in the Koroni with the non-injurious. Targeted actions for specific sectors. Strengthen producer groups and extrovert to farmers. Eurovignettes to transporters. Evaluation of civil servants. Solutions for financial liquidity with micro-loans in small and medium-sized enterprises. Actions to reduce energy costs to the highest. Last year's Employer's programmes for the long-term unemployed. Restructure the social system with a better target for the poor and the weak, a new personalised classification of diseases for the disabled. That's how we come out of the crisis. Not with wishes and supposedly tough negotiations. I have heard Mr Balauraras call it 'Tactical defeat' yesterday. We don't want any more tactical defeats, thank you, we're full. But instead, what do you bring? Settlement of contracts that you have been dismantling. According to dogma Spirtzi - Vitsa 'I do not agree but sign'. Of course, Mr Spirtzis disappeared in Brussels to do the hard thing, but his Prime Minister sent it to the airport and signed it on the stairs, as he was coming down from the plane. Rusfétés for your own children with the new NSRF structures, the twenty-year increase in the decouples, friends and relatives, the offices of Ministers and the Undersecretaries. Mistakes and malfunctions for which you will bring us amendments to the next bill, I am sure. I said yesterday about two, about school security guards, about the IKA committees. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am tabling an amendment to you in the Minutes and I have a problem with my OTA lawyers that you are imprisoning and not receiving any benefits. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theocharis Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Red loans and wage bills. Let me say a few words. I have already said enough to the committee about the reasons why you will fail to provide a solution for red loans. Firstly, because there is already a securitisation framework that should be sufficient, even with small interventions. Secondly, because the banks are not prepared to sell with losses, since they have not been recapitalisationed with all the funds available. Thirdly, since they will not sell them cheaply, because they cannot bear the damage, as we have said, we will not have cheap solutions for those who really need it. Fourthly, because the Bank of Greece does not immediately have the supervisory infrastructure ready. You also give new responsibilities to an agency that's already overloaded. Five, because you're laughing at us with housing consumers. You say you're going back to see malfunctions. What will you see in a month? They won't even have time to get these companies to run. They'll get permission on February 10th and on February 15 they'll be able to take housing and consumer. No malfunctions, then. Mr Stathakis, don't lie to us again, like yesterday in the committee, that the framework is only for half the loans. The framework is for all the loans and on 15 February when all the loans will begin - it is humanely impossible to start earlier - it will begin for everyone, perfect and complete. So what does the framework do? Anything? Oh, no. I'm not unfair. It allows the individual sale of the loans. That makes two things. Firstly, it gives new tools for extortion to the banks so that they can pass on their arrangements to businesspeople in particular. Contrary to what Mr Stathakis says, it is not the banks that are not cooperating, there are a number of entrepreneurs who want better arrangements and they say no, no, no. Now, they'll be blackmailed and rethinked, because the bank will talk to them about the funds. I already told you that for loans - they told me this morning - 50 euros, banks on the phone started talking about funds. Second, it allows corruption...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Theochari, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u133	I shall conclude, Mr President, just one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u134	Okay, you have one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u135	It allows corruption. Individual loans can be sold with specific arrangements, provided you know someone strong in the government or in the bank. Only with 100,000 euros or more. You have a big company that owes 250 million - to give an example of it being tangible - you make such a company, you buy with pressure on the government but with a full payment stop, so that the bank thinks it won't recover anything, 12.5 million of your loan, it sells you 25 and you saved 225 million. You're the godfathers of interlocutory if you leave that. In our country, if anything can be done, it will be done. Withdraw the bill or make three changes. Firstly, you are exempting parties and media from these arrangements. Secondly, you put a threshold on the purchase of loans of 100 million at sales prices, not nominal loans. There should be people taking capital. Thirdly, you must oblige the Bank of Greece to make quarterly reports of international houses on the loans received and managed by the funds, a report that will be submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs in the House. Otherwise, the only reason you bring this bill is to allow corruption. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, in two words, on the provisions - tombstones in merit, wages. Take from retired people, from social policy, heating allowance, from workers, from employers and freelance professionals, from conscientious civil servants and give them horizontally to good and bad. Why? Because you can't do it and you don't want to do the evaluation. For your clients, the unions! And why do you think that's how you're going to get noodles at the expense of the service? But the Greek civil servant hurts his service and understands your mockery. It won't reward you! And if someone is cheating on him, I tell him what every citizen who trusted the SYRIZA must know: "Keep your eye on the child, close the door with a key, they're lying." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u136	With a clipboard programming that I have done, if we keep the time and at 20 a.m. we'll be done and possibly a second series with one speaker from each party to speak. But if we do not stick to time - all of us and the ministers - then I do not know how far we will get. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, special speaker of the ANELs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the articles, which all colleagues and we in the committee have analysed yesterday, we voted on the urgency of the bill, as everyone will probably understand, all contribute to resolving the unpleasant weight of red loans, which has been tormenting the Greek economy for five years. If it is not solved and if it is not settled in terms of clear, sound, competitive, internal and external competitiveness of banks, with the full supervision and control of the Bank of Greece and the Greek Government and the Ministry of Finance and the associated ministries the issue of red loans, we will not and will not be able to discuss the management of the ESDP, the wages of the secretaries, the roads, the conferences and everything else. As I have shown in previous speeches, the burden of red loans was unbearable - and it is unbearable - because as a whole, at the 78 billion, which we received at the end of 2014, which were uploaded by 53 billion in 2009 by the excellent management and good practices of PASOK and the New Democracy, brought a huge burden on the Greek economy. If you want to hold number 78,379,000. In this we must add that at the same time, 2009 to 2014, the reduction in credit expansion, i.e. the lower loans provided by companies to reflect red loans to the market, was another EUR 53 billion. Therefore, 53 billion and 78 billion, go to 135 billion. In all this, if we add all 38 billion, which the PSI destroyed by the Greek banks directly, within one night, we go to the 170 billion missing from the banking system. If we add to these the over 120 billion which have been committed from 2010 until now, we reach a very nice sum of EUR 260 billion, which is missing from the banks. Ten days ago, we were accused of the recapitalisation, which had to be done for good reasons, in order to build the supervisory capital, so that banks could claim in relation to their international position and not both their internal position but also in order to be able today to reach the bill, which with healthy banks, at least recapitalised on the supervisory funds, on the own funds, so that we can make an agreement - if you like - on red loans. The agreement on red loans is very specific. And here I have to make a parallel. I have heard Mr Theochari say about loans to the media and parties. Could colleagues, for example, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, because they have 250 million red loans to make a proposal for their management to us and to the Minister of Finance, to Mr Juliarakis and to the banks they owe, tell us exactly how they think without the framework we are putting in, to manage their red loans? In the speech? Calling ministers? Do you mind if we forgive them? Forget it? How do they plan to regulate them without a regulatory framework in the banks, which are currently with the bodies authorised by the Bank of Greece, will have jurisdiction and know-how and the legal framework to bring a solution to them? If they do not answer for their own home, how do they come to criticise what will happen to others’ homes? And here we have to say that if a company has red loans and a VDU, a club, a company is being the recipient of a felony crime product, i.e. they are invading it 'black' money, in every legal country, anywhere in the world, from New Zealand to Alaska, this company should have been closed down and put into management and liquidation. This has not happened with a particular party in Greece, which has taken illegal money, according to a missionary statement. At the same time, it operates and at the same time has a license and operates. There's no legality. We are accused of reminding the people - and the secretaries will also allow me to table all the disaster once again with full proof of the red loans for the PSI - red loans along with the depreciation of shares. I forgot to add the depreciation of the shares. That was 250. I should like to add 25 billion more, Minister, from the depreciation of the shares in the HFSF against the administration of excellent and good PASOK and New Democracy practices. It is the CFS page: Damages accumulated in December 2014 are 24.505 billion. We've reached 280. They're coming to check on us today. And what did they leave us in December, which cumulatively must be solved by this government and solved? They left us financial needs of 52 billion. This is the IMF report. It is the full analysis of how much money we have been left with and where we have to find them, which would also have been found by them, of course, with memorials rather than free pillows of preventive funding. The 54 billion, as we have said, have been recapitalised and restructured. We sent them at 32.5 years with 1% and ran them into a net present value of more than 70%. So, in fact, we saved 30 billion more than the debts of the PASOK - New Democracy. What else did the happy PASOK management - New Democracy give us criticism of why we today have to manage the red loan bomb, which, as I said yesterday, if not solved, is bankrupt by Greece? If the problem of red loans is not solved, we are bankrupt. It's so simple. Because there is no other money for share capital increases, how much it may be loan. We were left until 2030 by their excellent negotiation of interest payments of 164 billion and capital payments of 178 billion. That's till 2030. That was the excellent negotiation and the PASOK - New Democracy programme until we came to the government! And they haven't told us from 2020 to 2023 where they'll find about 85 billion who left them to us. We'll be government both in '20 and '23. We'll manage that, and we'll solve it next month. I'll testify to that in the Minutes. It's a full analysis of what we have to manage. At the end of December the banks had broken up, as I have shown, and at that time the government was talking about success story. The success story is that. The increase in Greece's risk premiums has been launched, which means that the country cannot borrow and banks cannot borrow. We ran into ELA with 1.55, instead of 0.05, i.e. fifty times the cost of borrowing because of good management! You want to see what they did to the banks? Let's not see it. With regard to the framework that we are discussing right now, on red loans - and I will mention one and I will leave in the minutes the notes I have made - I shall read four - five very important points: ‘The banks maintain their participation in resolution management decisions through pre-approved actions and strategies. This constitutes an important advantage of the management or transfer of loans to the sales of loans. Management companies will jointly design with the banks the operations and strategies for resolution and management that they will implement for the loan portfolios to be awarded. Secondly, at the same time an approach to foreign capital, which trusts more companies specialised in the management of problematic loans.’ It is a second market confidence. When someone puts their money in Greece, it gives Greece confidence. And like I said yesterday, there's no other way. If we put in a black hole, for example, in the textiles - I said yesterday about the fishes, I will say today about the thieves - again accumulated losses of over 350 million, with loans which have evaporated and have obviously disappeared in foreign accounts, because there is no operation in Greece, then to run this loan and to bring a foreigner along with a Greek banker and with the shareholders and the Greek State to rebuild this operation, firstly, we must put new funds into the bank. New funds to get in, apologise, from the bank or the fund or from that agency to the company, they don't exist. The public doesn't have and it's not his role. Foreigners put their operating funds in place. We should see the framework through which we will put the administration, which is well paid and well paid, and we may also borrow executives who will be paid by the banks, who have been easily recapitalised by the Greek State, so that they can run these companies, make them green. Because the mutual benefit of both the public - this triangle - and of the banks - managers of the loans both of the company and of the company is to increase the jobs, which is also what is needed in the Greek economy now, namely to increase the Gross National Product. It's the only way, and we first put in a regulatory framework. The previous governments were tossing the ball in the cradle and going below, because they said "it's okay, SYRIZA and ANEL will come, take the ball in the hands, and we will be very free to sit in the gala and criticize." But come on, we're giving solutions, and that doesn't like anyone. Of course, it does not like the media that have huge loans, which should also be managed in a legitimate way now. Let me say that there will also be unification and restructuring platforms for most banks. What does that mean? That if a company has syndicated loans or has loans to more than one bank, a law and a regulatory framework is now in place so that the integration of the loans and restructuring into a platform will be soon, legally and in a concrete way. To date it has not been possible. A businessman had to run from bank to bank and probably blackmail all four systemic. Now, there is a law, a rule, with the aim of developing, with the aim of reopening the company, with the aim of creating new jobs and increasing GDP. The target is that. The way it is implemented is, yes, it is. One of the ways. Platform, all together on the platform. All four systemic at the same table together with the State, the borrower and the regulatory framework, so that all issues can be resolved and we can proceed to a solution immediately by March. I believe in many business loans, which are strategically important, red, to bring growth to the Greek market. There will be healthy competition and, at the same time, all of this - because the economy is not if you want to drink naughtyly nailed to one wall or a map - it is all connected to one another. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As the logical flow of my speech goes, you understand that within the next three months, six months, seven months, we need to see what we are going to do about capital controls and capital controls, both to natural persons and to businesses. If you follow my thoughts and we clarify the framework - because this is the purpose - of all companies, through the regulatory framework of the red loans with the companies and the Bank of Greece, the platforms and the Greek State, with full supervision under Greek law, within Greek borders - not in Luxembourg that came from the funds of the previous administration, where the funds and the investment funds and what would be managed by Greek real estate and red loans and we brought them to Greece - then, logical and next, we are going to lift or improve the business problems that exist in the reductions of capital, as we have to do with the loans, which we will now be able to and will have to make early repayment of the loans through capital control, which is not today. Also, to search for imports, to upload the plaques or to reduce the days to which they are subjected. From that point on, we must be able to open new accounts. I will put another note to anyone who wants to read about the ideas I have recorded in relation to the next step, which will be clearly now the lifting of capital controls. We logically reach a resolution and a principle of growth and new jobs in the first half of 2016, next year. At the same time, what happens? The debt debate is coming too. Mr President, I'm going to need two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Comrade, not two. You'll have one like everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u139	Because of your address, in a few seconds. I would remind you here, the statements made yesterday - and I will leave them in the Minutes, for anyone who has not been able to see them - by Mr Kostellos and by Mrs Velkoulescu and the other prominent economists who are directly bound to Greece at the moment, after the first assessment, which will be carried out if these measures are passed by common sense, business and more so, Greece is not a country - a failed state, as the previous governments had made it, but it is a state that creates laws, puts a course, a roadmap, implementing situations, programmes, mobilising the economy, becoming more competitive and putting the bank and debt on the table. When the debt goes to the table - because it will be restructured, as we did with the 54 billion in the three-year period at 32.5 billion - we hope that part of the transnational or/or EFSF, some of them will be extended for another thirty years or we will have a stable instead of a variable interest rate or anything else that is already in the trading basket that we know has already entered, understands the Greek society - and we do not need to make a memorial or accuse the previous ones - that this government is really working. In a semester we'll have it all on the table, the economy will move on, and at the same time we'll reduce the debt. What does it mean to reduce debt service needs? I gave practical examples of 164 billion interest and 178 billion debt by 1930, from '21 to '23 83 billion debt-solving needs. These will no longer exist whether we are government or else, which we will be, because we will give the solution, and the people will understand that this government that gives solutions must continue to govern this country. We will dramatically drop the debt service costs each year, so that there is a huge margin for the surplus and get out on the markets, as long as we now have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Comrade, please hang up. You're telling the debt when it's time for the debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u141	It is all about, Mr President, and it is inextricably tied to the management we are doing for red loans. I shall submit to the Minutes of the House all the Rules of Conduct of Banks and the FEK. I ask all colleagues to take it, inform all citizens, businessmen and natural persons...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Cammeno, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u143	... what's true in relation to their negotiations with the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Georgiadis will now be given the floor. The Minister will follow Mr. Vernardakis. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary representatives have not spoken. Whenever they want, they'll take the floor. I'm telling the Bureau to know. Two Members will take the floor and then a parliamentary representative or a minister, so that there is no monotony.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u145	When will the Minister of Health take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u146	I haven't been informed, Mr. Loverde. For what I have been informed, I announced that Mr Vernardakis has been asked to speak and we have been told that he will speak around 14.00 hours. Whatever we've got, I'm announcing it. It is also known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and three teachers from the 11th High School of the beautiful city of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. Welcome to Athens and Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u147	I also welcome the students in my turn. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, despite your various old election commitments, after February next year foreign funds will have access to all of the red loans, namely EUR 105 to EUR 107 billion, EUR 65 billion from business, EUR 35 billion from small and medium-sized business and housing businesses, EUR 5 billion from consumers. Taking into account the fact that from EUR 65 billion for business loans the government did not achieve any exception, we expect to see what will eventually be excluded in February 2016 or just a two-month extension, a profit to small and medium-sized enterprises. In such cases, loans with 10 to 15 cents of the euro have been purchased, i.e. 10% to 15% of the value of non-performing loans. That makes perfect sense. A red loan to the free market is so worth it. This is the most recent proof of the "fuss" of the Greek economy that you have built all these years. In addition, you allow companies, issuers, as you call them very beautifully, to remove the bank secrets of borrowers. According to the explanatory statement, the removal was considered necessary because otherwise it could lead to an inability of the company to manage the loans in question. On a strictly technical level, this can be fully understood, but these are things that your voters did not know about. They did not know that, apart from their financial obligations, their personal data to all kinds of private enterprises have been plundered. You know, one does not automatically involve the other. In fact, incomplete management capacity at personal data level, can lead to several borrowers in deadlock and in other cases in much more unpleasant situations. It is clear that today's bill does not come to an end with the settlement of the loans. Loans which have as their mortgage the first place of the borrower, consumers, small business and Greek public guarantee loans shall be placed under temporary exception until 15 February. The reason for the temporary exemption is to correct any omissions in the first stage of application of the law. These loans will then also be sold, and until then the rest of the housing loans and credits of the large companies will be able to come to the hammer. There will therefore be a new round of negotiation on the issue of red loans. You know, gentlemen, every time we hear negotiation we really fear. Every time you represent our national interests, because of the urgency, your idea of and your management failure, we end up with the losers in the case. No one takes you seriously. I would remind you of the recent incident in which you went to 'business' in Iran. After exhausting negotiations, Mr Kotzias returned to Greece a triumphant with a promise in his suitcase, that we will finally give Iran some EUR 800 million of what we owe. I mean, choresy situations. When the world now hears from you the terms'revenge' and 'negotiation', it runs to hide in shelters. So we hope that this new negotiation from the next February, and then for the other red loans, will not result in the well-known fiasco of the notion of a cooperating borrower. This concept incorporates the law on overdue households, Mr. 4336/2015, where the criteria of the cooperating borrower objectively no one can fulfil, so no one can be classified as a cooperating borrower. Therefore, the citizens have this sounded like a hunger and it is neither the first nor the last. Now about the increases in the wages of civil servants. It is really from oximous to tragic your will to incorporate these small increases in the red loan bill into the bill. We've been through it yesterday, but I'm going to concentrate today. If we look at it in general, these crumbs of comfort to civil servants will cost, according to your report, a few hundred million euros a year, both for reclassification into the new wage scales and for wage maturation and for increasing the number of Heads of organic public units. To show your alleged compassion, you are even more burdened with the state budget, without solving any problem at all. All burdens continue to fall on the private. You show an intense nostalgia in the old, traditional state-run economy model. On the one hand 100% tax advances to the small- and medium-sized businessman, on the other hand bonuses and gifts to your loved ones. So why are you doing all this? We're reducing their wages.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u148	I don't know if you're gonna cut the wages. They're crumbs, but you're burdening the budget!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u149	You said it was crumbs. Decide what it is. It's crumbs or something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u150	No dialogue, please! Mr. Georgiadis, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u151	We all understand that they are done to maintain the party line that stands out for you from the previous governments. You're with the red and green and the previous ones with the blue ones. The same and unchanging political line in these governments, that is, with a different colour on the flag alone. And already half the population has turned its back on the city and does not even agree to come to the poll. But you're not interested in that at all, you're continuing the "Kosotras" culture in public until the final fall. In these new public sector wage arrangements, the challenge is evident to private sector employees. For example, Article 25. These patents are to be paid by civil servants on a half-wage basis - their half-wages for accuracy - and they are able to afford three-quarters of their wages, we all regard them as normal here than I understand them. I'm asking you. Why would a civil servant be put on holiday or availability? Is it everyday? What has he intervened and what offence may he carry on his back? If we catch a public servant on his own behalf, will the taxpayer pay him until his case has been finalised, and even at the pace of the trial of the Greek courts? What sectors in the private sector are, even to the very least, approaching these advantages in the public sector? Why do we consider de facto this correspondence to be something perfectly normal that passes like a sacred legacy from a government to a government? Is the Greek Parliament the legislature of civil servants or the entire society? How can we call ourselves a civilised Western state if we maintain these clear inequalities between the public and private sectors? What Constitution, on a legal level, and what ethics, on a moral level, overshadow this correspondence? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would suggest that you get together, be brave and move on to the demand for broad assistance for the formation of a universal government. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Put technocrats on the board to gain the respect of the international community. Neither your country nor your party will save you with this tactic you have been following lately. And remember what I will tell you: In a few months from today everyone will deny that they have once voted SYRIZA. We are voting against this bill in principle. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u152	Me too, Mr. Georgiadis. You saved us three minutes. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Vernardakis. Then we'll enter the speakers unless Mr. Juliarakis has come and wants to talk. Minister, you're entitled to eight minutes. I'll take ten minutes. But in ten minutes, you'll be finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u153	I hope I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u154	Don't hope, or I'll put eight minutes and ring the bell from eight minutes. I've got ten minutes to finish in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u155	Good. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see many women, of course, but I have to start with my word - I have a feeling...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u156	A few, good and good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u157	Yeah. ... that here we have a serious problem of methodology for the debate - and I will explain to you what I mean - by listening to the last speaker and especially by listening to yesterday's speech in the committee responsible. We are discussing various things at the same time. For example, the previous speaker referred to whether or not private sector employees have provisions that are beneficial to the public sector. We are currently discussing a bill on the wage bill for civil servants. We are neither discussing the regulation of relations with the private sector nor the working arrangements which exist nor anything like that. There is, of course, a very dangerous perception in its analysis, as in the analysis of others, that social automation requires private sector employees to be in conflict with public sector employees. But I'm going to be on the methodological problem to know what we're talking about. It also comes from other speeches from other representatives of the parties. Is that the income policy payroll? If we are talking about income policy at the moment, many of the remarks could make sense. There's a base. However, the wage bill that we are debating today is not income policy. The payroll is engineering, it is the architecture through which certain structural, organisational provisions are put together on which we will build any income policy. There are a number of criticisms. For example, there are criticisms of the recovery of losses. It's right. We don't have to reinstate the losses. It is clear that there is no guarantee of the thirteenth or fourteenth wages. There is indeed no such thing as that. Indeed, there are no increases in income policy. But that's not what we're talking about. We do not discuss the collective negotiations that need to exist, nor the increases that may be made in the future. We are discussing the management of the existing organisational, technical and organisational framework that we have before us. In this sense, and the criticism made by the increases resulting from the reclassifications, is without substance. Do payroll reclasses have to be reclassified, yes or no? Is it good that they were frozen for five years? Is there a financial cost from non-removing over the last five years? If we deal with this after three years, will we have more budgetary costs? These simple questions about wage structure are not answered. Of course, in the context of this general regulation, the general architecture, in fact, we have a number of financial implications - to say so - some financial, wage effects. Indeed, the reclassification of payrolls and the unleashing of payroll patterns creates a financial benefit to basic wages, a difference in wages, which, in fact, is crystallized into an increase that varies. The average increase is 92 euros - there are, of course, smaller ones - and there are even larger ones - which will not be given in full. It has been broken up into four equal instalments, which we could of course also see. Is the government budget charged with this performance? The answer is 'No'. But the cost of the new wage bill has already been addressed by the freezing of previous budgets, by the wage growth which has not been made, by the grading promotions which have not been made, by the growth and incentives that exist as a prediction but have never been given and, if not even today, by an attempt to reorder the public sector, the costs will be much higher. There is also the criticism that the state budget is being charged with 150 million. "With hundreds of millions," someone said. It is less than 150 million, which were already budgeted from previous budgets. He was the pigeon who was never given. Does this amount come from the private sector? Here, look at this, we'll have to end with this senseless hypocrisy. The wages paid by civil servants, half-weight, have declined by around 40% in recent years. The number of civil servants has fallen by three hundred seventy thousand over the past five years. Anyone who believes that this has worked for the private sector obviously lives in another country. Evidence is that the mistake that existed in the non-payment of the benefit of border regions - which we corrected in the draft submitted and which, obviously, as it was said so far - caused such a disturbance in the local communities, precisely because it is money which, in the final analysis, is going to develop private local economies. It's so simple. Anyone who thinks, in other words, that the less the wages in the public sector, the more funds are released for the private sector, obviously needs to revise its shape. In Greece we have had an incredible decline, we have had enormous unemployment, precisely because of the expansionary policy of reductions in the public sector. Therefore, the model should take it differently. The representative of the Potami party - who is not here at the moment - raises another question: 'Horizontal increase in wages, regardless of evaluation'. Here we are touching another problem. First of all, what horizontal increase? Wage reclassification is considered a horizontal increase. Here the words lose their meaning. And it continues: "And it is not linked to the evaluation." What kind of evaluation? The one that never happened? The one that acted as a pretext for redundancies and public availability? The one that was working as the fearhouse for the division of labour forces inside the public eye? And how does it explain the fact that the JRC, on the other hand, comes and says: 'Yes, connect the wage to the rating'? What assessment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u158	What assessment? That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u159	What assessment? The evaluation is, therefore, an assessment of the benefit of the public sector. This is the evaluation system that we have as a legislative initiative in the next few years. It is also a structure evaluation, it is an assessment of individuals within structures, it is an evaluation that has many parameters. Of course, however, this is not the idea that identifies evaluations with wage reductions or with the possibility of using authoritarian policies on the part of the administration towards employees. This practice once has to be finished. Public service in Greece has indeed many problems. It has a lot of bureaucracy, it has many structural problems, i.e. it has no work schedules, it does not have organograms. On the other hand, however, there is in no way the idea of disuse, which some political brains are cultivating in this country. On the contrary, in fact, it takes a repetition of this return of confidence to the people who work. I believe that the new payroll is obviously not a big and serious income policy, like the one we should have done and we should bear in mind. But it has some basic principles. First, it stops the general downhill that has existed for five years either in wages or in structures or in the functioning of the public sector. We can, from there on, start an effort to reorganise the public sector, to reconstruct public sector, with confidence in the human resources, by making simple - firstly - operating restructurings which are absolutely necessary so that in the coming years we can actually have a proper income policy with respect for labour forces and all workers either in the private or in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u160	Me too, Minister. Mr Loverdos was kind enough to offer his position to speak first and then speak as a parliamentary representative. So I call to Stepma Mr. Yannis The Guardian from SYRIZA. After that, Mr. Nikos Dendias will receive the floor, Mr. Loverdos will follow, and if there is no Minister here, we will go to the next two speakers. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the public debate must be cleared up because it has been diverted. We don't know what we're talking about. And it better be done on the channels, on the sites, where we have a misinformation and a danger. But it cannot be tolerated here, officially from the Step of the House. A lot of people have been afraid of what is going on with their loans. Well, let's get this straight. This bill is not about the many people. The Minister said so, too, and our rapporteur said so. We'll say it and we'll talk about it again. This time, this draft law concerns large businesses. What do we mean, saying big business? We mean businesses with a turnover of more than EUR 50 million and more than two hundred fifty workers. But not that it has bad, dangerous provisions for these businesses too. We'll see about that. But most of the world is not about him. So let's see who's not about. It does not apply to first-stage dwellings, which, in other words, have a mortgage on first-stage dwellings. It's not consumer. I want the people who are watching us understand the concern shown by the government in the negotiation to exclude consumer loans from this bill. But if we discuss with the world he will tell you about the consumer, "He took a vacation. He shouldn't have taken it. Good to have him.’ That's how the world will say. And yet, in the negotiation, we have had resistance and the transfer of the loans to investors, to funds, has not gone through. This also applies to consumers, not only to first home dwellings. Small and medium-sized enterprises are also excluded and where the Greek State has guarantees. We have to make it clear that, where the loans are to be transferred, they are either large businesses or residential housing - Greek law applies. The law makes it clear that the position of the borrower is not deteriorating. It will have the same essential and procedural rights as Article 3(8). It's clear. It also clarifies that for those who transfer the loans or manage their loans, the Katseli Act continues and applies, Law No.3869/2010. I would also like to mention something that was not said in committee yesterday nor today. The Consumer Protection Act still applies to those whose loans are transferred, as amended and currently in force. That means a lot. It means that investors who now want to invest, buy loans and negotiate them will have the obligations of the Consumer Protection Act. The Consumer Protection Act states the general terms of trade, what they are, has many rights that it gives the consumer. The investors will therefore also be bound by Greek law and by the Katseli Act and by the Consumer Protection Act. It was, of course, also mentioned by our rapporteur, but I cannot - as I was saying - that I should not read Article 1. I think: If someone is what we call a "dog", "distress fund" etc. and see Article 1, he won't come to invest in Greece. I'm sure of that. He wants to be based in Greece, not offshore, taxed here or based in a Member State of the European Economic Area and having a branch only in Greece. It also wants to apply with a serious and formal process and bureaucracy that shows the statutes, the identity of the direct or indirect shareholders, the identity of the consultants, the organisational structure of the company, the business plan of the company, a comprehensive report, which will even refer to borrowers who are part of vulnerable social groups, in accordance with the Katseli Act and the Consumer Protection Act. After the Bank of Greece judges the application, monitors it, sees whether it maintains an official website. If it finds that a mistake imposes fines, it shall suspend the licence. And I repeat: if anyone wants to speculate in this way against borrowers, with all these conditions, or with the fine that he then says in paragraph 5 of paragraph 13 of Article 1, that the Bank of Greece will put up to EUR 300,000 fine, no "cross", no distress fund will come to do such jobs here. If it is a serious investor who wants to replace the bank with its rights and obligations to initiate the market economy process, then it will. What, then, is the process of those who manage the loans or are sold to other companies? First of all, it is not surprising that large companies or consumers who have a second- or third-party housing. Their loan must be red, followed by a period of 90 days, where it is notified that their loan will be transferred and that they also have a one-year margin. It is a great margin for them to settle their obligations with the banks. Now, with regard to the management of the loans, legal accounts, collection, negotiations. And I will repeat what the Minister said about the banks: while the Katseli Act was - institutionally - the procedure of the preliminary conciliation procedure and we had seventeen thousand applications, one bank did not compromise. Maybe they are now. Same in the transfer - sale. I will repeat that the position of the borrower is neither substantially deteriorating nor in a procedural way. The next steps planned by the government, the thirty borrower information centres, the Certification Authority, the improvement of the Code of Conduct and the improvement of the Nines, because it was not operational - and we really saw it as a community of lawyers that it was very difficult to implement and needed, based on it, to make some operational improvements - we believe it is functional and the banks and borrowers will also be freed from the cold of the time. Where the government has to bear its burden, the General Secretariat for Consumers and all of us are dealing with the mafia - I will say this also from this Step - practices of input companies. They must be dealt with in the existing legislative framework and perhaps improve me on it. I am not going to mention, Mr President, the officials, although we cannot understand the attitude of the Officerial Representation, in the days of which there was nothing in the public service, no one was working and, on the contrary, they were seeking and giving allowances, there was no assessment, and when it was to come, it came only punishing and having adverse consequences for the official as well. I shall therefore confine myself to closing red loans. Those who are now protesting would have gone through worse measures, since they of course excluded themselves, because they already have red loans in their parties, and after campaigning for cheating. We never did that. I would also remind you once again that they had called for the election vote. They will not, however, have it, because we have been instructed by the Greek people to drive out the old, to implement the difficult measures, which we have shown openly in the election period, but in as mild a way as possible and of real interest to the Greek people in the negotiation. That's what we got, and that's what we're gonna respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u162	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Nikolaos Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will mainly try to refer to the first part of the legislation, because the time we have allowed me to speak both on the wage bill and on the issues of the ESDP and on the concession contracts. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with this after a year of inertia to suggest as a government - I am referring to the Government - that the allocation of non-persistent loans, with some quantitative parameters, which, however, all of which are eliminated in February, are dismantled into distress funds. And you do this without having exhausted any other potential and no other prospects before that. Please, because I think we are all legislating good faith here, do not go through it as simple and given. This law, to which you are kind enough to give up my name because I recommended it, n. 4307/2014, first of all, I would like to say that it was half the law. It did not represent all the perceptions I had at the time, and today I maintain what needs to be done. Why? For Mr. Hardouvelis did not agree that this law should include debts to the State. This law had a basic thought and I will tell you with one reason: it called for the protection of jobs and businesses that can survive and said: "In order to keep these jobs, as long as the company is viable, the banking system must contribute 50%, that is to say cut off half of the loans and the Greek State as well." This is because we had calculated that it was much more expensive to close these businesses and try to rebuild jobs. That was the basic thought of that law. This law was passed, but it was only applied in a few cases. In this Mr. Stathakis is right. But why has it not been implemented? Is it the law? I don't want to talk about that law. It is to a certain extent'my child', so I see it in a different way. But you're judging him. You take into account, however, that while Mr Skrekas, who succeeded me, immediately took care to get the ministerial decisions out and even prepared the relevant papers that would have been made by the companies that would have joined the law to complete - that is the FEK, which is the signature of Mr Skreka, the templates, that is, what the companies had to complete, we had them ready - from there on, when you won the elections and only one thing was left - to create a supervisory committee, which was provided for in Article 79 of the law, you did not do so. You're going to tell me, is that what prevented the law from being applied? That's not all. I have - and I can present them to you - a hundred and thirty-four communications that I found, various government officials, MPs, press offices, etc. - government or pro-government - saying that this law before it is implemented will be changed and even changed to the more favourable. So, some operation in which you said that the law would change, why would it go to present these applications? You prevent her from going, saying, "we'll make it better, more favourable". Be careful, more favourable than what? Of 50% plus 50%. So what happened? Here comes June, Mr. Stathakis, and what is he doing? In its decision it creates a committee - I have it here - which is supposed to recommend a'solistic' approach to red loans, therefore a broader approach. Then - I am telling you honestly - I saw this very positively, because I thought - and I think we should also deal with housing. How to deal with housing? As I had already said at the time, the 'balloon' method. That is, to serve the part of the loan that meets the existing value of the property and the rest of it go with "balloon" in the future, to see when the value of the property will be restored to the market or otherwise the bank will suffer its damage and lose the difference, because the bank also appreciated the property when it gave the loan. So instead, what are you doing today? You are bringing the loans to the distress funds. Excuse me, how do you do that? Kostis Hatzidakis told you before. How can your conscience allow it? I am neither going to take you to inconsistencies nor to speak to you strongly, nor to exaggerate you, nor to lie to you. You are parliamentarians and you have the legitimacy. How do you do this without trying anything else before you get to this point? We all know who wants this arrangement. We all know. And I was being pushed to make this arrangement. Wasn't it easy for me to pass such a provision? Wasn't it easy for me? Was it easier for me to fight with Mr. Hardouvelis? Is that beneficial, ladies and gentlemen, for the national economy? I ask you: is it beneficial? Do you have the impression that the distress funds that will come will, even in the depth of their minds, be of interest to the maintenance of jobs? Do they care? Well, they don't care. It's for something else. And because I don't want to be single, of course, they're going to give a liquidity to the banking system. But do you know what they'll get from our hungry and thirsty banking system? They won't just take what you think is the rot. They'll get a package of loans. And as a result, the Greek economy will face a secondary wave of unemployment from the regulation that is being voted on today. I'm really sorry, but that's not your position. She's not responsible at all. And I honestly say to you - as every time I come and you do me the honor of listening to me - that I am ready to say to you, to suggest, to write, to you, to the interest of the country and in the banking system - in the broad sense, not of each individual banker - but of the national economy. This arrangement here is incorrect as it is done. This is the last conclusion, since we have tried anything else before, we have arranged everything that could be set up, we have saved everything that could be saved, we have protected as many jobs as could be saved. And only as a ultimum refugium, as a last resort, for what we can do nothing else, then go to the distress funds if you want and give them there. What you are taking as a first step here is a tragic misunderstanding of your role. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be a mistress. But I honestly tell you that by means of legislation like this, things are not going well. In any case, we are in recession anyway, and unemployment is rising. I fear that with what you are voting on, supposedly under the state of need - but the state of need is not easier if we vote in the wrong way - you lead the country into a deeper deadlock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u164	Me, too, Mr. Teddy. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by addressing the Deputy Minister for the Interior and to say to him that we have tabled a number of amendments that have not been put forward. We have tabled amendments relating to the maintenance of the allowances of the border and certain specific amendments concerning the unexplained exclusion from the allowance of these Heads of the CEDEFOP and the school advisors. These interventions have been made in the name of knowledge and respect for the criteria laid down by the law and because the authoritarian process in which you have led us, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, not on matters relating to the memoranda and obligations of the country, but on issues relating to regularity, such as that, does not let us talk. If we had, Mr President, a normal procedure, we would have had complaints on the amendments. SYRIZA's new colleagues do not know this because they have never discussed a normal procedure for amendments or if they have, they have done so once or twice. However, this is a procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure, where we are in a comfortable position to discuss the interventions of both the Ministers and the Members. So, because I do not have the margin, in the few minutes I have, to speak on the substance of these amendments, I invite you to look at them, if you have not seen them since yesterday, and to tell us, by taking the floor again, what you intend to do, whether you will adopt them or whether you reject them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u166	In his speech, the Minister announced them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u167	Ours?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u168	They're not yours. He made them as proposals of his own.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u169	Ours as what? Take the floor to tell us what? As far as the draft law itself and its substance, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: 40% of the auctions in the first place, in the Minister's own numerical approaches, red business loans - the big ones - to the ones called by SYRIZA in the past cords - are concerned. Whatever we refused to do, resisting, you do it by laughing and celebrating. And the question that anyone can put is if you're swamps after all. What has been a product of battle, so that we can rule out and end up in other regulations, time-limited, once again substantially generous for one thing or the other - auctions and red business loans - now with fairs and suggestions which are very enthusiastic for the good things you are doing and, quickly and quickly, you are protesting when we protest about these procedures. And Mr Stathakis, the Minister, is disturbed to remind him of his past. We remind him, for example, of red business loans what he said at the end of the year 2013 and as a member of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and himself as a sectoral leader - what was he then? - on these issues, taking the floor here in December 2013. But neither Mr Stathakis nor anyone from the majority can get rid of himself. And if he wanted to forget about him, we won't let him, because the Baroufakis experiments and the Tsipra experiments have been paid dearly by Greek citizens. The three elections, which you triumphed, in 2015 cost Greek citizens dearly, not for their performance, but for the consequences that have been incorporated into the useless third memorandum. There is no way, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that we should allow the ministers to leave the minds of changing them. It is the majority of the demagogues of the past of Greece that I have said so many times. And the management result is in too many critical areas to screw up. Education, education, takes the lead in the fight to the worst, and it is certainly the thread that is being cut off. I'll be allowed for seconds to report to Mr. Muzala's arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, we were here and perhaps some people who are fair in their judgment remember how I was addressing Mr Muzala with respect, with respect and in the fact that he is not a politician. And I said to him, "Have you guys got a plan when they come from Irodiomeni?" And he said here before you that he has a plan. And yesterday, apologising to the Mayors of Faliros, Alimos, Glyfada and Greek - Argyroupoli told them that "in the Greek I want to bring them". Nice plans you also have a good prospect for investments, making a policy of destruction, plunging the Greek as the area of the greatest modern investment, for which others say TIADE, as far as we hear, but the government must remember and yet others do. We will not allow the Greek to become a soul storehouse. We are close to the inhabitants of the region and to the struggle of the Mayor of the Greek and also to the mayors of the region. Now let's get to the point...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Loverdo, I'm going to interrupt you for 15 seconds to make a school announcement. Besides, it's from the second of Athens. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty-six students and students and three teachers attending from the 7th High School of Aigale. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Your time will be kept, Mr. Loverdo. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u171	In your words, large loans, in fact large-scale interventions - Stathakis here must be heard, for the big ones speak here - they go to the pigs, as you said. I do not know which colleague said quite rightly - I think Mr Constantinople - that this was the phrase of the Golden Dawn and yours. Now you've changed. Now what happened? Has it become a management adequacy? The big ones, in any case, in the so-called 'cuts' in the distress funds. For the rest, ladies and gentlemen, from February 15th. Until then? This is a question mark. Large loans involve 45%, if I do not exaggerate, of the total red business loans. I repeat, it's part of the problem. For the rest, which is of greater social interest, should there not be any guarantee, even in the form of a statement from the Minister responsible? Mr. Venizelos, when we were discussing the auctions, tabled an amendment that was tabled today and which the government said to clarify that the change in the creditor's face, any change, whether as a master of the loan or as a manager of the loan, does not differentiate in the hands of those who have been affected by the beneficial arrangements of Law 3869/2010. In view of this regulation, should we not make such a clear regulation by mid-February? Or, if you do not want to make the arrangement, should you not make a clear assurance on the part of the relevant ministers? You have to. A safer way to take part in this problem is, the amendment, which is here today, ladies and gentlemen, and we will not avoid voting on it this time, as in a way contrary to Parliament's Rules of Procedure a few days ago. Let's see more technical aspects. Mr. Stathakis is missing. I hope he'll give some answers. Since, as Mr Theocharis nicely said, can the management or ownership of a loan be a person, a man to man be the relationship, who excludes it, what excludes one who is interested in a particular large retarded substantial loan, with 100,000 share capital and only 100,000 and by paying the capital requirements of the particular investment that he wants to make or aggressive move that he wants to make, or a defensive move he wants to make, appear as a fund that wants to make that investment? What's gonna forbid that? Is this only twenty-day deadline for the Bank of Greece to do the checks? The nominal shares? We saw how they protected transparency in the median landscape.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u172	He's not up to a natural face.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u173	These are fraud, rather deceptive thoughts of the past, bankrupt, and nothing more. Security essential to this point does not exist. And when I talked about defensive movements, those of us here are more sensitive, consider the case that the debtor itself is making this move. How can this move be prevented by the means that we have in mind? In any case, if we are going to get there, why prevent us from regulating the possibility of the credit institution itself in one to one to another with a loan we have today, from making the credit institution itself the proposal to that debtor, since we are talking about loans involving more than 250 million and companies employing too many employees, as the law regulates? I repeat what I said before, invoking the reference to the Venizelos amendment: why in paragraph 3(9), Mr Stathakis, do you not make these specific clarifications, in order to remove whatever concerns this House may have? Finally, are they not ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, especially in general, the position that cooperation - a debtor's transaction with the legal person who will take over the management or ownership of the debt and, indeed, can he do both? And management and ownership? Where does that seem to be, that can, by law or where is it excluded? In any event, the law states that this relationship cannot deteriorate in the procedural and financial position of the borrower, the debtor. Extremely general wording. How is this protection specified? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a very serious report to the committee yesterday, not on my own behalf, but on its importance, on the so-called claw back in the field of pharmaceutical expenditure. They may remember the most diligent and observers that the 570 million limit in hospitals we voted for 15, twenty days ago. And I said that there is no more extreme 'neo-phile', as it is called online, intervention than that. Clawback to the pharmaceutical cost of the insurance funds I have put it and it was the hardest measure I have put into with vague words of injustice. With injurious tails! I had said this at the National Representation in March 2012. I didn't think about thinking about it for the hospitals. Because hospitals must be able to afford medical expenses. To eliminate fraud, we have made huge efforts by all governments, but not by clawback. I don't care if you put a limit on it and say from there, I don't care. Because the hospitals often cover insurers. Hospitals often cover people who have not fulfilled their insurance obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u174	The lenders put it in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u175	Listen. I had denounced this as extreme neoliberalism and an irreversible interference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u176	The lenders put it in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u177	If you don't change that, it'll be nominal. You are now coming and you are putting here - Mr. Blondes is missing, so I wanted to hear him, I mentioned it yesterday in committee - clawback and the EEAS 60 million, at the EEA Pharmaceuticals. And you know the health care professionals that the EOPY pharmacies use those who, insured or not, suffer from chronic diseases too serious to get their medications cheaper. Is it possible for these 60 million people to have a limit on human illness? What if it goes further? I hear and I close with it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u178	Shut up, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u179	That a lady - something in "suck" - a member of the Ministry of Health, speaking with the troika, said EOPY has double books. Who said EPPY has double books? And this measure did not exist and came to be added here. [[At this point, it is ringing repeatedly at the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member.]] Question to Mr Blonde: Are these 60 out of 570 excluded? Shall we go for 510 in hospitals? And these 60, why do they need it? Who brought them here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Loverdo, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u181	I'm closing, Mr. President. If this provision does not change, confrontation with us will be very strong. Think about it twice and in any case, explain what your thinking is and clarify, 570 plus 60 or 510? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u182	Well, we continue as follows: first two colleagues, Mr Cassidy and Mr Koutsoukos, since one of the Members present wants to take the floor, we will follow and go like this. As far as I can see, of course, there are two ministers, no one from the financial staff, because I don't know what programming they're going to give us. Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u183	I shall begin with the 'coops'. Because the distress funds are 'curtains', they cannot be described as otherwise. Any other term will be inappropriate. We cannot tell them economic factors. We cannot tell them investors, those who come like the corpses over the corpse of a country that has collapsed, which has died, and are building up on that country. It is therefore a question of 'coops'. And quite rightly, PASOK spokesman said that he used this phrase and SYRIZA once. Only SYRIZA has made too many cubisms in the past few months. But the Golden Dawn also insists on this phrase, and always does the political terminology it uses. And Golden Dawn is the only movement, the only political party that can implement this policy that we are evangelizing, so that there is a future in this country. It is therefore a 'curtains' of international markets, which, with the Government's encouragement, will grab the red loans of Greek citizens. From February 16, they will take the homes of Greek citizens. Let no longer falsify people that they will protect anything. Nothing will be protected. Of course, the rich won't get hurt. The rich have taken care of and made their money abroad. Even if a deposit haircut occurs in this country at some point - which is not excluded, if we judge on the basis of the misery of your economic policy - the rich, the enslaved, the part of the system that SYRIZA promotes, will never be disturbed. It's always the poor people who will pay her. So now, the poor are affected by this bill, through which the 'brows' of the international markets will grab the'red' loans and then the first residences of the Greeks. We have repeatedly said that the draft memorandum is specific. He's got a very specific target. It is the poverty of the citizens. At the same time, it is the poverty of the country and the inability to serve the debt. This is how every "good" loan shark has been operating for many centuries since William Shakespeare wrote the "Brand of Venice", which was talking about how loan sharks are ready to destroy the flesh of people, peoples, nations. For a piece of bread, therefore, foreign capital will take all the property of Greek citizens, all the property of private individuals, who have been violently impoverished by the five-yearly destructive memorandum policy. In the same way Greece's banking system was levelled. We had a robbery. We're talking about a clear robbery. Maybe they didn't get into the bank with guns. However, when 40 billion euros have been spent to make the banking system public and on one night, in fact, banks are privatised for 700 million euros and something and at the same time they are lost with the same measures of about 350 billion euros of Greek assets, then we are talking about a specific robbery. The banks, then, sold out. The private have become poor. The same is true of the state. Public property is being sold out. When we talk about public property we talk about airports, for example, which are businesses, although they are in a terrible situation in terms of infrastructure, even though they have infrastructure in the 1950s, they still continue today, or rather they have a profit in favour of the Greek public. It was making the public money out of the airports, which you sold, which you sold out. And as you once talked about "dollars", so I would remind you that you used to talk about the sale of airports that were a red line for you. Now what happened to these red lines along the way, I do not want to drop the level of my political speech and comment on it. At State level, therefore, public property is divested. Any profitable businesses that existed between the airports and the OPAP were sold for nothing to foreigners and the ultimate objective of this policy, when there will now be a definitive inability to serve the false public debt, the deletion of which you have also disqualified, then Greece will give most of its assets, the most important part of its national wealth, namely the deposits of hydrocarbons, the gas and oil in the Greek exclusive economic zone. This is the aim of all the prerequisites, all the memorandum measures such as those that are being voted on today. And I laughed really, seeing this man who pretends to be the Prime Minister sitting next to the President of Egypt and talking about the deposits of the Egyptian EEZ, at the same time that Greece does not dare to declare itself an exclusive economic zone, as Cyprus did, at the same time that Greece does not dare to mention this huge fortune it possesses. Deutsche Bank speaks of hundreds of billions of gas south of Crete. All this, of course, which the Germans have cost, will take us for nothing, when Greece is poor, and our economy will have collapsed. There's a reason for investing. We have seen very well how you handle this issue. In places where investments could have been made, there could have been new jobs, they could have come warm money from abroad for Greek citizens, in places such as the Greek Olympic real estate, you preferred to stack Moroccans, Pakistanis, Algerians, Afghans, stabbed and played wood between them. This is the image of Greece, unfortunately. This is the terrible image of our country today. And I laughed at the PASOK spokesman earlier. Because we render Caesar Caesar Caesari and we are righteous. In relation to what SYRIZA has done these few months, it is much worse than what the PASOK and New Democracy governments have done. SYRIZA, of course, because of the anti-racist complexes he has, is progressing at a faster rate than that of the conversion of Greece into a minority within his home country. I laughed when I heard PASOK spokesman say he was representing the mayors for the Greek. And I remember when we were in St. Panteleimon's Square, where the Greeks were fighting for a free home, for a home without illegal immigrants, what we played with the MATs, which was then sent to us by the old PASOK and the New Democracy. This is the end of parentheses. Also, with this bill you create a hydrocephalic public, of course. The public doesn't touch it, you don't tease it. It's your party clientele. Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost in the private sector, infinite businesses have been closed, but you are concerned about how to go ahead with the public sector, because that is where the votes are. Because with a 15% -20% of the electorate you can be government, with this terrible system you call democracy. In fact, however, it's not a democracy. It's a corrupt climax. I will end by pointing out what it means to 'first time a left-wing government'. We all saw on TV how more than ten police officers literally ran a Greek citizen. It was notable that this brown, this poor Greek, who made the crime try to get a piece of bread. Ten policemen came in and ran into him, literally. At the same time, SYRIZA Ministers are making a chalk of life and dancing a zeebecca. The chestnut didn't cut evidence for the chestnuts. For flowers flying in Germany, however, they were given proof. She was with the cash machine, and when she was thrown out with the gardens, she was given proof and he was handing out the hundreds of euros from the Greek people. But the cops went to the brown and ran him down. One wasn't found to grab the SYRIZA Minister and tell her: What are you two partying? Do you care about the death of the Greek people you signed? This is the disgrace of your government. The Golden Dawn with intense and aggressive style will continue to denounce you. Fortunately in this government there is no future. Like every unwilling, memorial government of the past, she will soon collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Koutsukos isn't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u185	Can I say something, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u186	What can you say? Mr. Kegeroglu, I know what you want to tell me. You have been given as a third speaker if you have had enough time and talked...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Koutsukos got sick.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u188	So he won't talk at all?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u189	He won't talk. I'll talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u190	Here, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u191	I will speak in his place, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Koutsoukos won't speak in his place, that is. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u193	There's been an emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u194	And we wish everything would go well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u195	Okay, we get it. Therefore, you enter the place of Mr. Koutsuku. If there is time left, which will be one speaker from each party, take care now of who will be your own nominated party. You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] There has been a lot of talk over the past two years mainly on the issue of the regulation of red loans. Government and opposition too many times have been confronted with the way in which we should deal with the issue. In October 2013, SYRIZA, led by Mr. Kourublis and the second signatory to Mr. Lafazanis, had tabled a question in which they accused the then government of the way in which they thought or suspected, based on the reports, that they would manage the loans. So in the last paragraph of this question, it says that small and medium-sized enterprises, which are struggling to survive in the context of the crisis, will find themselves in front of a deadlock, because the hawks - not ravens - did not say horns, hawks, then SYRIZA - of aggressive funds, which will take over the red loans, take their ownership, own property, whether they are business or the residences of small and medium-sized enterprises that have been promised for the necessary lending for their businesses. And he ended up with a bunch of cosmic surnames for the government. It's not that worth criticising this SYRIZA mutation. It is worth noting, however, that from an extreme position, expressed by Mr Stathakis officially, that we will manage the red loans by a state body, we are going to go to the opposite side, that we will grant - and even without any right to object to contracts in these speculative funds, in order to clear up the cases. This mutation from one end to another actually leads to a new dead end. New economic deadlock for thousands of businessmen and families. Why, let us leave what is said now, that it concerns large businesses only have more than 200 etc. That is the suggestion, in order to implement the institutional framework, which was imposed and which, as Mr Papadopoulos said earlier, was requested by the lenders. After the lenders requested it, how could we refuse? That is how Mr Papadopoulos told us about the clawback, to which I shall refer below. So he comes to choose what he blamed and what he is not what the reality demands. The reality today calls for protection to be given to the competent directors of the banks, as to the personal responsibility of the bank managers, so that they can first examine the viability of the companies and regulate the loans. This simple thing has to be done. There was an institutional framework, which was adopted last year by the Greek Parliament. If this had been done, with the improvements and extensions needed, in 2015, there would be no problem today. So, after a year of inaction to say that since we did nothing because we were negotiating - I don't know what they did a year, or I know, but I don't want to say it - now the only way is to create such companies by January, which have experience, come in and do what we didn't do in a year. So this political choice that has been made is detrimental to the real economy. In addition to the delinquency, which is a Greek expression, there will also be a dismantling of productive enterprises, because any fund gets a loan that sees that it cannot, with investment or operation of the company, get the percentage it wants, due to the nature of aggressive funds, cuts the company apart, sells a piece - track and further dissolves the productive tissue. That's the big damage. It is not just a question of changing property, that is to say that a Greek will leave and a foreigner will come. It's a dissolution of the productive tissue. So this government, not only does it not understand it, but the sucklers do, consent and criminalize against the Greek economy. Indeed, they are blaming the previous ones because, they say, we were protecting and we did not resolve the matter. The protection which was given - and even existed by law until 31/12/2014 for the first residence - was precisely because it had not moved forward at the rate that was required by the law. 3869 for protection for overdue households. What was needed - and was done in a bill - was to give more authority to the peace tribunals, so that in time they could examine all of these cases of seventy thousand. We therefore have tabled an amendment saying that the position of those who have already joined the European Union should not be aggravated. 3869, at whatever stage they are, by application of this law. We should see improvements where they have forgotten to pay attention, on the issue of public administration, to matters relating to allowances and all that, while they were actually predicted from the medium-term, but with a different perception of productivity, and as a maturation allowance, they actually come as a benefit of responsibility and position. We have, therefore, forgotten the school advisors, the scientific directors of the PESH, the heads and the Heads of Hospitals, the ESS. With the NSA, the Minister did not tell us what he will do, with the air traffic controllers paid by Eurocontrol, that is to say a European agency, and we put them in a flank back to Eurocontrol. That's a concept, too. On the big issue with the local committees of IKA, Minister, you have to tell us what you are going to do. If these local IKA committees do not work, thousands of issues will go to court, they will go to another level. Benefit of border regions: Look. This is where a bazaar is going. Whatever was there must remain. We can't always change geography. An area is a border or not. Those who had agreed, therefore, that they were, should remain and be added to those who had been forgotten, for example Gadus, who did not stay inside, when Crete left once, very old. Is the Gadus or isn't he a frontier person? Kastelorizo is or is not a frontier, Rhodes and Dodecanese, etc.Huh? You should see this for all regions, without exceptions. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. I conclude by referring to the musicians, first of all, of the OTAs requesting the withdrawal of paragraph 1 of Article 22 because it really affects them. I conclude with the issue of clawback in public hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u197	Briefly, however, because Mr. Loverdos developed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u198	I shall conclude, Mr President. That was excluded. It had not even been thought, because it concerns public hospitals. Is it possible to go to public hospitals without considering that more people are being placed in public hospitals because of financial tolerance than in the private sector? We put a clawback on the EEA and says, "But the lenders asked for it." Uh, no. Haven't the negotiators said that, and they call it parliamentarians? We need to see whether this is right or not. It's going to be a boomerang, especially with EPPY. Is it possible that the EEAC's clawback in his pharmacies? This thing can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u199	Close, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u200	We therefore believe that not only for the 60 million EPO should be removed, but they should also go back to the provision for public hospitals, so that clawback should be removed from public hospitals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u202	Just a minute, Mr. Polakis. Obviously, you want the floor on this matter. I'll give you the floor. But before that, since Mr Vernardakis is here, I too would like to ask him to see the history of the Civil Aviation, Eurocontrol, because money is being returned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u203	We solved that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u204	You solved it? Good, because we are also losing taxation on them. Would you like to explain it for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u205	I just want to say that the issue has indeed been resolved, as has the issue of frontier and musicians. Anything you put in has been corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u206	What about the PES?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u207	Of course, too, the PEDY. It just hasn't been officially filed. That's what I'm waiting for. It's not my responsibility. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and must bring it to announce it officially. I have the plan here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u208	Mr Minister, now listen to what I will say, since you honour us and you are always in the Chamber. It is a good thing to consult one of the three ministers of finance, so that in time, not at the time of the vote, the House will be informed of the changes that have been made either in the legislative or in the substance of the changes that have been made. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when you raised the issue with clawback, there was a demand to extend clawback to hospital medical expenses, and indeed to some amount that was absurd in my view. What you probably don't understand is that clawback was found and exists. The pharmacopoeia that EOPY pays in his pharmacies is 1,945 billion euros. The expenditure from there and up there is a horizontal cut, which is the clawback at the extra-nursity pharmaceutical expense. There was a separation at hospital, after the negotiation, which led to the agreement of the total expenditure on hospital medicinal products being EUR 570 million. For your information, this year's total expenditure went to EUR 484 million, as far as hospitals are concerned. The separation of five hundred million into hospitals and sixty-five million EEAS was done so that they could be covered with high-cost medicines - anti-cancer, antiretroviral - patients who are hospitalized in a clinical contracted with EEAY. That is why this separation has been made, so that patients who, for reasons of choice or inability to cover all patients in need, are treated in clinics who have contracted with the EEAS to cover these medicines. That's why this separation took place. And there is no other way to measure the amount of medicinal products administered and to bear the cost - if it needs to be - clawback from this height and above. You probably haven't understood that well enough. From there on, we're preparing some other things that haven't existed for so many years. Yes, we believe that the entire hospital medical expenditure for these medicines will not exceed that amount that was going to go to both 630 and 650 million euros. Why? For example, you never set up a negotiating committee at the EEA for high-cost medicines, which we are now building. You will know, because you have also funded the Minister for Health that there are some expensive medications and treatments, but based on the guidelines they also work and we must provide them to our sick and must compensate them for the insurance fund.... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm gonna need another minute, Mr. President. In Germany, for example, there is a medicine that has a price of EUR 70,000. The German EEA does not compensate EUR 70,000, it compensates EUR 20,000. We're here, though, because we're kibbies, we're paying 70,000 euros. That's what you've done for so many years. Is that right? The drugs came and what they wanted to put, and we as EPPY paid it when we were the only buyers. We had taken advantage of the possibility of negotiating the Greek state, which is the biggest buyer of medicines, the market had been set up, the system had been set up, and we were paying. That's what you've done for so many years. And you're giving up on us, who's currently setting this limit, and which we've calculated to be on a limit that the cost savings are going to reach? The Ministerial Decision also provides, precisely in order to increase the penetration of quality generic or off-patent medicines into hospital expenditure, to exclude from clawback, that is to say, the reduction for hospital expenditure, without exceeding the sum of EUR 570 million in total, medicines supplied by hospitals through a competitive process but also outside. And that is what the ministerial decision to be adopted on the basis of this legislation we are doing today provides for. That's what we're doing. And we're setting up other things at the EPPY. We won't, for example...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u210	But close it, because I gave you the floor in breach.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u211	As I learned yesterday that the committee was having such a debate, these things must be answered, because 'Where we were owed to them, they are going to take the ox.'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u212	Yeah, but here we have rules in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u213	Well, we're not gonna let the EPPY pay back at retail prices. I'm going to set an example. Surname, which the French 'EOPY' or the French hospitals pay for 1,50 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u214	Finish, Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u215	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u216	No, wait a minute. I gave you the floor in breach of your Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u217	I defend the government and its policy. Is that a violation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u218	Well, then you should normally ask for the floor as Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u219	All right, just a word. Let me say another number, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u220	But finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u221	I shall finish, Mr President. A brand that the French 'EOPY' or the French hospitals pay for 1,50 euros, our hospitals pay 15 euros and 35 euros. That's what you left us. We got this legacy. We'll fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Loverdo, I've already programmed Mr. Brutsi. You'll be waiting to talk later. Mr Katsotis has protested. Mr. Catatotis, can you hear me? We had agreed to speak with two colleagues and a parliamentary representative. Mr. Loverdos started by observing the agreement. It's Mr. Brutsi's turn. Immediately afterwards, for two minutes, Mr. Loverdos will have the floor to answer Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u224	Why again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u225	Answer Mr. Polakis. For two minutes, Mr. Katsotis, the world has not broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u226	Let's see how much two minutes this is gonna be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u227	In the Presidency of my own, there was no comment by any colleague. On the contrary, your rapporteur took three and a half minutes from me. You're very welcome, then. I don't say it as an answer, but people aren't ruined. Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u228	I said another thing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u230	And then how will the list go, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u231	After Mr Katsotis, you and Mr Venizelos have asked for the floor for an amendment, as I am aware.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u232	I have a committee at 14 noon, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u233	You will be finished, Mr President, don't worry. Mr. Brutsi, I'm sorry, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday's debate on the bill that we are discussing in committee, I have kept two things. Firstly, Mr Spirtzi's very strong cry of pain, who said yesterday that he signed the contract of the fourteen airports with great pain. And that, of course, was in line. She's not even that innocent. Because the writings and tweets stay, on May 5, 2014 there was a tweet that said: “A land at Corfu Airport. S.H.I.E.L.D. is preparing a sellout to private individuals. On 25 May we are ruining their plans.' This tweet had two hundred sixty - seven retweet repetition and a hundred sixteen likes. You know whose it was. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. We are now talking about the privatisation of the fourteen airports, a privatisation that has a huge economic benefit for the country, which will help tourist development, will create jobs. Fortunately, this morning's oxymomile scheme, the President of the TIADED, Mr Pitsirlas, on a morning television show, did everything we could not do in our favour of this privatization either.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u235	Anthems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u236	Anthem to privatize the fourteen airports. I mean, night-day in SYRIZA. The second thing that I kept, which had personal characteristics, was the expression of Mr Tsakalotou in my face, which described me as rude. He characterized me as rude, because at the time he was actually speaking, I interrupted him, because I wanted a critical clarification. I specifically asked him on the subject of IPTO, as, in his position, he said that the government was placed and said that IPTO would go with a percentage to a plan that they submitted to the Troika 51% -49%, rejoicing for its great conquest to keep him a state-run major shareholder. I asked him quite simply, since this plan is ready, why didn't he bring it. 51% -49%. It's a crucial point. You cannot go out either, especially the Prime Minister and say the day before yesterday in a statement that we have reached an agreement, so it is now deal with the troika 51% -49%. Because we hear other things. We hear that the troika has now entered a second cycle of search for the sustainability of this development. He put the HSBC on the verifier to assess the viability of the proposal. And that goes far beyond that. So, first, why was the Prime Minister rushed to say that he was agreed? Second, is that so? Isn't that what Mr. Chakalotos answered to me and described me as rude? But I'll answer to him that it's very sweet the chair of power now that you've conquered it, Mr. Chakaloto. Not to tell him a liar about what he was saying in election, post-election, until September, compared to what he's been doing since September. I certainly do not belong to those who adopt unreasonably political logic, phrases and behaviors that are inappropriate to political culture, not only mine, but also to the New Democracy. I say this because with this bill, ladies and gentlemen, in essence - and the words I use are not adopted by me, they are your words - you are buttoning with the black crows. You are butchering because you are actually baptizing - according to your dear process and method - companies as companies, the predatory cords that you were saying until yesterday, the aggressive and gluttonous funds which you were saying until yesterday. Basically, with the first provisions of this bill you do something that runs counter to SYRIZA's own conscience and soul. It is even worse than the lie you said about the third pension, it is much worse than even the minimum wage you have not raised, with regard to the private sector and a number of other issues. It is equivalent to group auctions. These provisions of the loan bill are equivalent to SYRIZA's soul and heart. I wonder how you're going to go Christmas to your districts, how you're going to meet your people, how you're going to look into them in the eyes and how you're going to explain your great mutation. Because this is really something that is white - black. It's completely different with your beliefs, with your ideas. But let's go for a bit. I also accept criticisms made on behalf of Mr Stathakis. However, let us go a little further into the substance of the matter. Are you satisfied, gentlemen of SYRIZA, with these provisions? Are you happy that basically these provisions are not explained as they should be? They don't explain the overall context, but they're asking for a white cheque essentially. It is a framework that has neither conditions nor conditions for EUR 107 billion. To listen to the amount: 107 billion unserved loans. It is a framework that is very general, asking for a white cheque, which is full of ministerial decisions. In other words, it calls on the legislator to bring ministerial decisions that are defined in the framework. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Furthermore, it has three other crucial issues. The first is what our rapporteur, Mr Hatzidakis, and other rapporteurs from other parties have said, that on 15 February, if you do not agree with the Troika - I will say this again - if there is no framework agreed with the Troika, they all open up, Mr Voutsi. And the dwellings and small businesses, which now do not exist inside. Everything. What makes it possible for us to grant a white check to the Minister of State, Mr Stathakis, to negotiate with the Troika a framework that now asks us for authorisation? Authorization for the large framework of non-performing loans to small enterprises and first homes? And one more important thing, Mr. Papagelopoulos. In here there are the guarantees that are with the Greek public, that is to say the TECs. Who is currently ensuring this framework? Mr. Stathakis ensures that? Did he make a statement? I heard him say yesterday - supposedly - that he will bring something through which he will not allow non-performing loans for public guarantees. With his words? Today, or withdraws the device or brings a device that ensures it. Require, gentlemen of SYRIZA. We, as opposition you see we are making a constructive, mature opposition. But do it! At least keep in mind the non-performing loans that are with public guarantees within the time we have. I'm going a little bit on the payroll issue. We have heard various points of view. Give as much money as you want. No one is negative in giving money, but you cannot allow us to judge you. Of course we're judging you. We're evaluating your priorities. Your priorities are, of course, while hospitals fall apart, while there are no doctors and nurses, to make a specific choice, such as increases in the public sector. That's your right. You'll hear the criticism. Your right is to make increases to civil servants, but we will make criticism, because you have cut the VAT on islands, because you have cut pensions - the main and the subsidiary - because you are increasing the tax on farmers. Everyone will do what they need and the world will assess us. In fact, there are many injustices in here. They have been said and I will repeat them. The issue of frontier allowance, Drama districts, Kilkis, Serres, Pella, island regions, such as Cyclades with island specificity. The frontier shall be abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u237	That's not true. It's corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u238	You should fix it. Let's go down. These are issues relating to the local administrative committees of the IKA. Will they stop working? I heard something. To come and fix it. Not in words. But even if they're still corrected, it proves the curiosity, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Rave - ripped or generally too fast procedures. This proves all these most injustices, such as heads of services, legal regions of education and many others. I close, with this: Look, your right is, you are a majority. You have deceived the Greek people repeatedly, do what you think. You have the right to legislation, you are a majority, but you will also assess your ruffles and your customer perception... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u239	It's not a ritual hitting timer. When we hear it, we stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u240	Take one example: Total salary scales. Under the law yours - to listen to SYRIZA logic - PE category: University education employee takes nineteen steps of wage and corresponds to thirty-eight years of work. This is all taken by an IP. He himself, when he first enters the State, will take a pay scale. This is the logical treatment of the bill. But if the same person enters the office of a SYRIZA Minister, then directly he goes to the wage step thirteen and has a benefit of twenty-six years. We should welcome SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, the perceptions of clienteles and rosphetologicals. They used to say, "Have a bar in Koroni". From now on they will say "Have a bar on SYRIZA". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Loverdos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u242	There was a reference from me yesterday to the Commission, here today by Mr Kegeroglou, and Mr Paulakis answers. First of all, Mr Colleague, you can consult Mr Bolaris, who is next to you, on the fight that has taken place for so many years to reduce the cost of medicine and for which we have suffered the struggle. Don't tell me "at the house of the hanged mustn't talk about a rope" or "the place where we were owed, they took the ox" because the 5,2-5,4 billion pharmaceutical costs of insurance funds I delivered 3 and today is 1,950, as you said. And the general clawback, which concerns the EEA, is all about the pharmaceutical cost of the insurance funds. Another matter. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are criticising the government concerns the limit, that is, the refund, which relates to the medical expenses of hospitals, 570 million and of which 60 million pharmacy expenditure of the EEA, not the funds. Obviously, you know that. Read in Article 41. I am speaking on a very specific subject. We hear, Minister, that some Mr Makridakis - or so, I do not know her - by speaking with the troika, told her about double funds in the EEA, which is not there. You know that. This urged the other side to bring you this term. We all had the responsibility of the Ministry, two years me and a year my predecessor and two years later, we didn't have that kind of demand. How did it suddenly come up? Someone tempted this topic. Is it also possible to tell me about 480 million pharmaceutical expenditure in 2015? There is no such amount, it is much more. There's something very reasonable. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it in your judgment. If they were to be 480 million, Minister, would they give us 100 more avanjo? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is an attempt to reduce and it is an inappropriate way of reducing the cost of medicine. I said it in my speech. It is an extreme neoliberal approach, regardless of the amount, which is low and its approach is inconsistent with reality, because we have a constantly growing approach to public health for the world affected by the crisis and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Loverdo, you've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u244	So I invite you to reconsider until night. Mr President, if we had the luxury of a few more hours of discussion, all this would be of interest to the entire national delegation, not only to some Members. We need to figure out what's being voted on here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u245	Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u247	You do not have the floor, Mr Theochra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u248	The Minister of Health is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u249	No, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u250	I would like the floor for thirty seconds to ask the Minister for Health on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u251	You don't have the floor for one second. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u252	This method of taking the floor and we know it, Mr Theochari, and we can use it. You are competing here who will cut more from health than people's drugs. Let the people and those who see us draw the conclusions. The Minister, Mr Stathakis, justifies the urgent procedure, said that it was suffocating the framework for the implementation of the agreed quartet, the lenders, that is, the capital. He's right. The capital seeks even faster to recover from its crisis, to enter into its growth cycle, profitability. The choices of the chapter that have been agreed, as stated, must be legislated and implemented at a rapid pace. These are the chestnuts that the SYRIZA - ANEL government pulled out of fire, as the Prime Minister said here the other day. There is not a single law, nor a measure that does not benefit the capital and does not worsen the lives of our people. This is the road map for the crisis, Mr Dimitriadis, which you said here from this Step as SYRIZA rapporteur. It is the same, of course, that followed the previous coup d'état of the New Democracy and PASOK, which is why you did not abolish a single law from the previous two memoranda and continue to satisfy the chapter and the third Memorandum. The road map you are following leads capital to recovery, but the working class, the popular layers lead them to greater poverty, inability to meet even their basic needs. This road has as a pavement, Mr Demetriades, the cheap labour force that is achieved by further reducing it with all the restructuring required by the European Union by the monopolistic groups. As a roadblock you have self-employed, anointed poor farmers, above all, has the nightmare of unemployment, the stolen dreams of youth. There is no aspect of the lives of the people's family left behind by the escalation of the attack. The big attack is ahead of us. It is the insurance policy for everyone, for workers and, of course, for rural workers, as is the last word on the tax you have agreed and will bring for farmers. Of course, the privatisations you have already made, energy, transport, airports, ports, land areas and all that will go into the new Fund are not in second place. Our rapporteur referred to the main aspects of the bill. It particularly referred to the red loan regulation, which opens wide opens the way to auctions and first homes. The'market hoops', as you call foreign funds, are now being projected as a rescuer. Warm supporters of this line say the red loan manuscript is clear. You are loading them in many ways on the backs of the working class, on the people, who have paid dearly for capitalist development and extremely expensively the capitalist crisis, and now it is in a phase that pays too much for all these measures. This way you are serving. He bleeds, they say, the Prime Minister, but he bleeds for the capital. That's why he works and he bleeds the people. You're making fun of civil servants. You seek their tolerance. Serve, at the same time, with the help of the New Democracy, his art "divides and reigns" with your claim that their wages are increasing. While over the years, with the measures taken by all the governments, the civil servants have lost over six wages a year, now that they are "speaking" by the regulation of maturation and there is a slight difference in part of the civil servants, you are baptizing it "increase". Is that a mock or not? Private workers, self-employed people, farmers must not believe the propaganda of the government and other parties in the system that the slaughter of the wages and rights of workers in the public sector is done for reasons of justice and to improve their position. It's about exactly the opposite. It will not improve the position of workers in the private sector, the self-employed, the poor farmers. On the other hand, the pressure will increase for an even greater reduction in wages, for expanding temporary and flexible employment relationships, for major overthrows in all aspects of their lives. The majority of civil servants will have income and poverty pensions. Only one section, the labour aristocracy, which will contribute to the implementation of the anti-grassroots measures, will have high wages and privileges, as is the case with the staff of multinational companies, large companies. Let us see, however, whether or not there is a further reduction in wage costs from the mid-term of 2015, as is the third Memorandum? It's set. Does the state budget, as our rapporteur has said, provide for reduced expenditure by EUR 18.3 million, yes or no? Where are the 140m euros, Mr Hatzidakis, which is additional expenditure? What are you saying, that the state budget will be amended, that it changes in the medium term of 2015, that it changes and amends the third memorandum? Is that what you're telling us? We are tabling the overall reductions in the public sector for the record, so for the truth, so that we can be clear. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The "walking" of matures, the time-limit, i.e., in combination with the pay scale, every three years instead of two years until now for the categories of OHS and OHS, does not automatically lead to a nominal reduction in earnings? What does it lead to? On a raise? Let us see what else is predicted: For those who take the so-called personal difference wage maturation will still be frozen, until the salaries of these employees are equal to those who do not take the personal difference. Isn't that a fall again? The linking of the new wage to the new insurance, coupled with the increase in the contributions of workers - 6.67% for health benefits, insurance - the abolition of heavy goods on certain categories of workers who open the road and the abolition of the EUR 150 will also lead to a nominal reduction in wages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. Will wage connection to profitability be a manipulation tool and further coercive? As part of the so-called targeting and performance-based wages will be linked to the evaluation. We have overevaluation here, not what Mr Vernardakis said. The position of responsibility is premiumd and some increases are foreseen for management and management, while what the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction called "reclassification"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Katsotis, because I see that you have a lot of papers in front of you, go to the epilogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u254	I shall conclude, Mr President. And I say that because indeed time is too little for the articles and, in principle, I am putting our positions as a JRC on all these articles concerning the salaries of civil servants. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we call on this Stepma, finally, the public sector workers, private employees, the self-employed, the poor farms, to organise their struggle to effectively stand in the way of all the things that are coming in the next period and concern insurance, labour and taxation, which will exacerbate the lives of our people even more and will pave the way for the great challenge, this development path which, if you want, causes oppression for the people themselves and the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, I could precede, why do I have to go to the Committee on Institutions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u257	I have no objections, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u258	Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor for five minutes. That's enough, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u259	No, Mr President, what you are giving the speakers. Normal time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u260	That's enough. What's normal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u261	The time of the speaker, as the Rules of Procedure say. Ladies and gentlemen, on 18 November when Parliament debated the last legislation on the protection of first homes, I had tabled an amendment providing that, in the event of any change in the person of the lender, that is, the bank or the regulatory framework for the supervision of the creditor, the rights acquired by the debtor are not affected, subject to Law 3869/2010. Unfortunately, this amendment, in breach of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, was not put to the vote and this regulation has not been included in the bill that became the law of the State. I have been suspected since that, that the protection of debtors, in particular, the protection of the first home, is waste, temporary and therefore, at least, the law should have been committed, since we cannot solve deeper problems than the operation of the economy and the credibility of the Greek state. As shown by this draft law, Article 3(10) provides that, until 15 February 2016, all of the loans concerned will have been reviewed by the Greek State, as well as the loans granted on the basis of a guarantee from the Greek State. So, all that was said a few weeks ago, they are placed under sect. Protection becomes virtual and temporary. I therefore repeat the amendment, by saying that, in the event of going into this law, the regime for the debtor is maintained intact, even if we have a change in the person of the manager of the claim, even if the claim is transferred, even if we have a change in the person of the bank that is the bank, even if we have a change in the regulatory framework - national and European - supervision over banks or on management or transfer of claims. And now there's no excuse. This amendment must be voted on in order to save at least the pretexts, otherwise the protection of the weakest debtors will be completely eliminated. That is the general problem with the government. The non-performing loan arrangement shows the improper political contradiction of the government. While, in fact, we have full submission to the Troika without any real negotiation - no one, we are simply eating the time until the government is inclined, and therefore the country, with the back of the wall, has a scene of supposed negotiation and then there is an absolute retreat without trumping - on the other hand we have a refusal to accept the truth, because the truth is, of course, too bitter for SYRIZA and its government partner. This seems to be ambiguity, as a contradiction in all matters. It appeared in the airport contract. With soul pain, the Minister responsible signed after a long delay. It does not incorporate this move into an integrated national reconstruction plan for a development plan for the Greek region of Greek tourism. He thinks he's doing an act of subjection with great discomfort, so he's losing his value. It has no added value for development. The same is true of the so-called parallel programme. The parallel programme does not comply with the logic of protecting social cohesion, promoting social solidarity, restoring the overall plan we had for the guaranteed income. They are pretexts that make it easier for the majority parliamentary group to vote on the difficult and contradictory measures that disprove the genetic path of SYRIZA. Because everyone remembers what happened in the past five and a half years, everyone remembers what was said in January, July, what is happening now. In fact, the same is true of non-performing loans. Where's the promise of serenity? Where is the promise of relief? Instead of having relief mechanisms, we also have, in this draft law, a multiplication of the mechanisms of demand, modernisation of the claim systems. And those who say that the government is on the right track, take some steps and think that this is how they integrate it into the conventional European political scene, are simply wrong, because they do not interpret the reason for SYRIZA's existence, by the closest of ANELs, who have now acquired a relationship of homogeneity of value and ideological. When you exercise power and exercise it raw and have no programming pretext, you have no worthwhile content, of course you need some communication alibi. The communication alibi is these regulations, namely, the regulations of November, which mean nothing in December and which will have been abolished in February, but also the great words of openness, transparency and justice. Actually, what's all this? It's a dome, behind which just forms a shape of power without barriers. In fact, this scheme also tries to broaden its political base, seeks support in the conservative area. It creates huge problems, of course, because this creates a flawless mystery. The mystery is cultivated by the government. It is not the opposition that says, "If you have a majority rule, if you do not have it, apply the Constitution, if you want consensus, come tell us the programming framework and the institutional guarantees". The mysterious, conspiracy element stems from the government, which is leveraging raw power, violating the institutions, causing the Judicial and Prosecutorial Body to react because there is nothing as a plan to rectify the country. There is nothing to remind of national reconstruction plan. We have, of course, experienced the same on the major issues. In the recapitalisation, it was not fatal for the government portfolio to deplete and eliminate the bank’s market value. In insurance. What insurance? Was the insurance data the same one year ago? Does the resurgence of the recession, primary deficits, the increase in tax evasion, the growing trend in unemployment again behind the restructuring of enterprises not affect insurance, when it comes to GDP, the overall national expenditure as a percentage of GDP? With what viewpoints in the future do you do proportionate studies? What plan are you going to submit for approval?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, the Committee on Transparency begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u263	So there is an overall problem, which concerns the management of the national course. Of course, red loans are a very good example, because the funds have already entered the banks, but now they can also take the form of a transfer company. But it is not a good thing that transfers are going to take place here. The loan management companies will operate with loans in the ownership and control of the banks. The transfer companies will not, however, function because, as the recapitalisation with non-performing loans actually took place, 65% of the valuation of the uncovered part of these loans is about 35% of their nominal value. No fund pays 35% of the nominal value of the loans to transfer the loan package from a Greek bank to a company, to which these claims are transferred by ownership. Fortunately, we need a comprehensive plan. In fact, we need a whole strategy for the restructuring of businesses, not only of large, but also of medium-sized enterprises. Only in this way can we implement a real sectoral policy, only in this way can we give the Greek economy prospects and this must be done through the Greek banks, which exist, which have stood on their feet, despite the damage they have suffered, because of the framework in which the last recapitalisation took place. I am, therefore, also optimistic that the data of our financial sector is better, thankfully, than is reflected in the law. I told you a few weeks ago that if you let the banks handle these issues of housing loans and the protection of first residence, the protection of the debtor would be greater and it is now proved. Now the protection is being set up, withdrawn from February 15, 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u264	Will you be finished, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u265	Now I say to you, if the banks manage their own interest in loans - unfortunately this is the reality - the protection of the future of businesses and jobs will be better than the one which is intended to implement this law, which I now say, in my assessment - and fortunately - will not apply to the extent of transfer of claims. One final comment, Mr President, and I am very much in relation to the wage bill. In 2011, when we made the big payroll change and linked the payroll to the evaluation, we received a huge attack because we are applying a new payroll. Now hold the new payroll and remove the review. From a budgetary point of view, you are retroactively accelerating our view. You come after four years and say: that was necessary in budgetary terms and it had to be done, but the evaluation has been abolished. In other words, in terms of budgetary adjustment you admit 2011 data retrospectively. In terms of structural changes and reforms you come and make a huge decline in the quality of public administration, namely the quality of the state, which is the main lever for the reconstruction and development of the country. This is another very good example of the deadly contradiction that passes through SYRIZA and its government partner, because of course you are obliged for reasons of elementary self-protection to maintain this loose end, that you have not fully accepted a strategy that you have been licking and now licking. But you've done it, and you've done it in an agarbot way, because you're calling on to manage a policy that you've undermined, slandered, questioned, delayed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, it is also fatal that we have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u267	...and now as good students as you wish to show up, you're not. The country cannot go any further, because it does not have the political and social conditions to make this leap that it needs. He's dragging. Sadly, economic and political and institutional and social bankruptcy. That's what the place can't stand. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be understood by the Greek citizen. She still needs a little maturation. Here comes the maturation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u268	Until Mr. Amyras comes to Vima, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERYRIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd Corinth Gymnasium (A' section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Amyura, you have the floor, with an audience and Corinth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much. Since they're the kids from Corinth, they'll have gone to the Acrocorinth, of course, to this amazing place, with the castle, where it's natively planted that little flower that was the inspiration for the Corinthian colonon. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will turn to Mr Polakis, as I see him here, to draw attention to the question of access to antiretroviral medicines for citizens. Their Association, the "Thematic Voice", has made an announcement and says that at the People's Hospital the medicine is not sufficient and they are uncovered several dozen of them. So that's what I'm asking you to see and give us an answer if that's the case. Also, I will now telegraph you and a point from Mr. Theocharis, who says that you should pay attention, because with your efforts to convince us that this bill, which takes money from the social state to feed the "logues", is good, while on plus, your preparation of double books under the Sfakia, can make you an attractive candidate to work with the International Monetary Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, 'For a handful of euros', this should be the title of this bill and not something else or the boring title it has. Why 'for a handful of euros'? Because "for a handful of euros" SYRIZA - ANEL government has swallowed up all the raw lies, which for months had devastated us and flooded us, the Greek society, the parties, all the people. Why? Because the Prime Minister himself had described them as a red line and I read you as saying: "Do not go a business or housing loan to Distress funds", the "Kosoys" as you yourself say, SYRIZA MPs. And I want to ask, what kind of crows are these? These are the "dollars". Is it possible for these businesses that will manage business and housing loans to have an increasing capital of EUR 100,000 and, in twenty days, to be able to set up, set up? Do you not do the same with other Greek businesses, can they be founded or ceased without bureaucracy and within a short time? Can I talk about road concessions? You, the ministers themselves, the SYRIZA Members, did not say that they were subjugation and interlocutory contracts? Can you imagine the Potami, who has heard all of this, which has thrown tons of mud, carried or managed these concessions with AKTORA or the other major construction companies? Say, what about the concession of the fourteen airports? For me it is good that at last these airports, which do not have papers, will finally be able to enter a path to the development of the local economy and society. But you described them as a scandal of delinquency of the Greek airports. What's that called? Medically, the doctors will tell us what it is called to apply literally what you report at the same time. Mr. Gregorakos here, the doctor or our doctor, the river, Mr. Barriotas, will have the medical term. But legally it's a fraud. That's the term. And populace is an unjust, majestic and majestic for Greek society, because you have flouted the lies and fanaticism of Greek citizens. For years you have inflated their minds with theories, which of course was a water balloon, a smile. And now the smile has broken and washed us all, because you have acted irresponsibly both as a party and as a government. Let's see a little bit of this bill. I was surprised that Mr Vernardakis was talking about the evaluation, as if he were talking about a tropical fruit that no one has ever tried and linked the evaluation to only the wage deterioration of civil servants. Uh, no, there's the reverse. The evaluation is made, there are the organograms and we are applying the single payroll, which is the third time we are trying to apply it to the Greek public administration, but with exceptions. Excluded are workers of the ECHO, many of them well-deserved. And they entered the CPO outside the AAP, without the procedures of the AAP. Why do you exclude them from the single payroll? Like also, why do you exempt the priests? Why? Is it as a compensation for the cohabitation pact or why your partner, the ANELs, will put you on a red line? These red lines you know how to keep. However, the red lines for the benefit of the Greek citizen are passed in the duo. Article 38(4) also disconnects the escalation of the funding of the research entities with the results of the evaluation. Do you understand that? This is, then, a research and educational and academic and academic system that does not apply in any country. Come on, maybe only one North Korea. The evaluation with the funding of a research organisation is inextricably linked to each other, except Greece of SYRIZA. Also, in Article 16, you have identified in EUR 290 the placement allowance for all of the Heads of Departments except the school advisors. You forgot about them. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now go to the red loans. To see red loans, we should also take a look at the whole business situation and the economy, in which individuals are striving to develop the business. I have here a table that goes too far on facebook. It is English Ian Griveson, who compares incomes and taxation between Greeks and English. For exactly the same profession, for exactly the same income of 30.550 euros, taxation in Greece amounts to 42.24%, while in England 13.36%. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then go on, then the Greeks compete with the Englishman, the European, anyone else. But for the red loans of media, canalarchs, publishers, as well as parties, what are you going to do? Give us concrete information to know where these will come from and how. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end, Mr President, by making a little reference to Article 15 on family benefits. Here, then, is the demographic precipitation clear. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, in a minute I shall be done. We are talking about insurance, we are talking about how to restart the Greek economy, and we are not taking into account that in 2013, for the first time, ladies and gentlemen, after 1921, births in the country per year fell below the limit of the sustainability of the 100 thousand births. Also in 2013, 2014 and 2015, deaths exceed births. That's very unpleasant. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying this: on 19 November I sent a question to the Minister of Finance, Mr Tryphoon Alexiadis. I asked him to answer what he would do with 'VOLKSWAGEN' if he would claim the increased traffic charges that the state would have to collect because of tempted car software showing lower consumption, and I was told today that it was the answer. You know what Mr Alexiadis sent me? He sent me the table for the annual traffic charges per gram of emissions. Nice to meet you. What am I supposed to do with this? I asked you another question. Here the Director General of "VOLKSWAGEN" wrote to all European governments and the Greek one saying "we are ready to take the cost of our mistakes". And we are the only government from the twenty-eight that we have not claimed from VOLKSWAGEN the money. You are now telling me other words to be loved, for red loans, for evaluation, for the single wage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u271	I shall conclude and thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you last of all that, on December 10, 1893, Charilaos Trikoupis had said the word 'Unfortunately, we have failed'. A hundred and twenty-two years after that bankruptcy, we are still in bankruptcy, mainly cultural with the basic responsibility of SYRIZA - ANEL, because they lied to the world and continue to say and present us with the white one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u272	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr George Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u274	Here you go, Minister, until Mr. Carras arrives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u275	I would like to reply to Mr Amyras and Mr Theocharis, who have been mentioned by name. Thanks for doing this artifact insult to get some things in place. You have the sensitivity to seropositive drugs at the "Lacto" Hospital. In Laikos, what has been done in a number of other hospitals lately and is one of the main reasons why many commanders have been evaluated in the way they have been evaluated, and that is why they have been removed, no matter how sad you are about it. The People's Republic was sponsored by the state budget and the Ministry of Health from January to August 30th to 11m euros from the state budget, due to the conditions of budgetary suffocation we had in the previous period. From the day we took over to date, the 'Lacto' has been financed with EUR 24 million in two and a half months' time. At the moment, the chief commander who existed, with the unacceptable announcement - and who was removed - came away - came to the conclusion that the hospital was dangerous, while he had taken 24 million euros in two and a half months, and he could, like many others in large hospitals or smaller hospitals in the country, pay out in an equal manner the various suppliers of hospitals, pay back medicines and health material, pay back reagents. But what did most of them do? They paid very little on the charges I am now saying and almost paid out the services of outsourcing, that is what they themselves sign up for. And the notion is. That is what has happened and that is how this situation arises. Corresponding amounts have been taken by the "Advertising", corresponding amounts have been taken by other large hospitals in the last two months. There's a very clear increase. We had given 300 million to all the hospitals in the country from January until August. From the day that the new government took over, 750 million have been granted and another 130, warm money has come in December, on the basis of the increase we have made. This picture, the shortcomings present at the moment, in most cases, in addition to matters of management adequacy, has this cause. The EEA for the first time gives more money to the public sector and not just to private sector providers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u276	Mr. President, mercy. It's been so long in Step, my colleague. A little respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u278	That's the reality. Now for the rest, others have tried to become the chosen ones of the system, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u279	My colleague is waiting in Step, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u280	Whatever, Minister. You've done very well for the IMF today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u281	I carry another cultural burden from you, Mr. Theochari. Other...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u282	No debate with Mr. Theocharis now. Mr. Theochari, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u283	The troika has done so very well. Bravo! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u284	The IMF road is open to you, not to me. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for giving me the opportunity to speak on the phone when he was talking. In any case, we have not had any luck or misfortune, the Centrons' Union having exercised a government within the House. So are we watching the debates and finding out what? That each side is trying to justify its policy to date, without actually contributing to a public debate, so that the issues that the country is facing can be promoted. This is therefore a first introductory remark. The bill, then. We have a bill, which chooses a way of managing so-called red business loans. It is also known to the Minister, Mr Stathakis, that there are many methods that we can manage the business loans that are being delayed. One method is internal, within banks, with special services that they constitute. Another method is the creation of a so-called bad bank, which means that a package of loans is transferred to this bank, which has the funds to deal with the situation. In addition to the funds, the State also has funds whenever a bank for the management of loans has been established. What are we dealing with here? We're dealing with a philatelication. Here comes a law and tells us: We will be able to have business loan management companies, business loan transfer companies. What does that mean? It means that - as the law keeps saying - they will have a minimum capital of EUR 100,000, value of a studio in a medium area of Athens. How, then, will the loans that will claim as a package be managed with this minimum capital obviously? So here's the answer. They are the Distress funds, which will create a series of companies to manage each package of business loans, even if it is heard that they will be the big ones, the 50 million-million-dollar companies etc. And what do they pursue? With 100,000 capital, they can face nothing but the concept of 'koraka'. They'll take these businesses. Of these are many, without any chance of surviving. They'll cut them, sell them, make short-term profits and go to good. And it will then appear another company that will manage or acquire business loans, another 100,000, another small apartment in a medium area of Athens and we will therefore start to dismantle the web of the country. We will dismantle the business web in this way, Mr Ministers, whether you be careful or not to pay attention to what I say, for this particular reason: EUR 100,000 in capital can only operate a small company, which is what it is aiming at? To blackmail, to press, to have, to rob! We'll say that right away. So we cannot risk parts of the Greek economy, which has been afflicted. It is not all business's luck and path from bad responsibility. Most of them are at the point of red. From the bad policy of the past five years, which have leaked and stepped up the issue of red loans. I would like to remind you of something else I had said on the question of the recapitalisation of the banks. When banks are repeatedly recapitalised, it is possible to resolve the late loans issue internally. That's not what happened. Was it made by political dismissal, intentional or omission? I can't give an answer because I don't know. But we come today and what do we say? We're saying we issued shares to recapitalise the banks a month ago. With one or two minutes the shares of the systemic banks were bought when their funds had been depleted. There were no funds. And to give a form of bank, we got fifteen shares, one and gave a nominal price of thirty minutes. Is that the economy that can stand? There was money from both the Financial Stability Fund and from Europe that could be recapitalised by more funds. But the government chose what? He chose this situation so that he would say: we didn't need much money. We didn't need to. It was a success. Does this apparent success eventually turn out to be a failure, why will the banks today be forced to sell the business red loans and after 15 February, possibly all the rest, instead of a lenty billboard, to complete the financial deficits, close their fund, close the losses that will be caused by the low recapitalisation? I look forward to the answers with interest. But there was something else that worried me today. An amendment by Mr Juliarakis, which says this, has already come into my hands: if the conditions are met - it amends Mr Julius's report. 4335/2015- for resolution needs up to 31-12-2015, the deposit coverage part of the CECF lends the Board with the necessary funds. What, then, is left to make this move, to force the state, its reserves to be given to the Board of Directors? What is the Rehabilitation Fund? It's the law that was passed this summer and introduced the bail in. You will remember from among you MPs what that meant. What are we afraid of in here? The government has failed on the question of non-systemic banks. Forgive me for the abrupt move. Yesterday we read something. While we also voted for the law on the recapitalisation of cooperative banks, we agreed to intervene in the permanent law of cooperatives, so we wanted to support this situation, maintain them, because they are useful, the regional cooperative banks. So we read yesterday that two of the only four cooperative banks can be saved on own funds. So the government is coming today, Mr. President, and says...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u287	But the others are struggling too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u288	I know, Mr President, that is why I mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u289	But say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u290	I'll say it. I will also say about the extension that has been given. I'll say it, Mr. President. You know I don't do sterile opposition. I'm trying to contribute. At least I think I might support that. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u291	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u292	So I come back to the question of cooperative banks. Is it a way of covering deposits from the TEK's deposit section, giving money - which the TEK gives a minimum guarantee for deposits - to the Board of Directors to recapitalise cooperative banks? For this money we have a given, do you ensure that they will be returned to the CECF to fulfil their purpose? Mr President, I put it as a question to the Minister. It's a matter of concern to me. I don't want to get tired of this House anymore. I will only stress this. Distress funds are also being given indirect immunity both to banks transferring or providing management, but further immunity is also provided, which may not be immediately understood in this Chamber. They say, therefore, that for the funds, for the special-purpose companies - I do not know how to call them - which will acquire or manage outstanding loans, Article 479 of the Civil Code does not apply. In other words, mismanagement is exempted for those who acquire and for those who acquire loans, for those who manage, but also for those who further transfer or dismantle the companies, in order to gain short-term profits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall end, Mr President, by limiting my time. That is, it will be possible for a distress fund, a special purpose company, as you say, to dismantle the companies, without the third creditor - because it does not only owe the banks a company, it also owes IKA, it also owes the public, it also owes suppliers, it owes suppliers all over the world - to get its own profits. So the distress fund can get its own profits, dissolve the company and erase all the obligations of the company that is dispersed in all directions. What will the consequences of the economy be? I want to hear them. I'm not in such a position to be able to calculate them, because there's no evidence coming in this bill. I would like to speed up, Mr President, to say this: there has not been a debate, but I will do so, on the large projects that are co-financed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, little and little time from my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u293	Yes, of course, to get me a comfortable phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u294	Thank you. It wasn't much of a conversation, but do we see a big piece of what to do? He wants the convention on the Peloponnese motorway to come into force. We all know that it had become law-enforcement in 2007 and that it had become a great political dome. There were too many of them. New Democracy was also charged, because at the time the Minister began bringing the sanctions of these conventions by law, so that this law would also give immunity to companies and to the ministers they signed, because it was ratified by law. So we see that this continued in 2013, but continues by SYRIZA in 2015. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. And what's she hiding? It hides an additional payment - operating subsidy says it, but I will not go into details - which means that the State undertakes to transfer a sum to that company. It therefore recognises possible its own responsibilities. By law will he recognize them? Oh, no. So the case should go to arbitration, to see whether the state owes or not. This has not been observed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But I'll say it reminds me of bad times. What were the bad times? I was lucky or misfortune in 2000 to deal with major public projects at that time. The worst impression in my life was that then in a demanding way, I can say from the then government of PASOK - it is known who was Minister at the Ministry of Public Works in 2000 - a contract of acceleration was signed, which I think had a large amount of hundreds of millions of drachmas to finish, says the Attica Road Consortium on the road to be reached by Attica at the airport, because the airport 'Venizelos' had a different start date in February 2001, while they had escaped from the Attica Road Convention, which was later on the airport's operating time. These are funny things, gentlemen. I don't know if there are any purposes to repeat them. However, with all this and without wanting to say more and to refer to other issues of the law that my colleagues have dealt with. We will vote against this law in the first place. We have not identified any point that gives us the right to vote in favour. I think my position has covered our position too. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, my colleague. You did it for the first time. Others are doing it serially. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in today's plenary we continue with another bill the hard work we have undertaken to keep the country up, following the multi-level bankruptcy in which the old political system condemned it. And I have to say that a dilemma arises in the performance of this duty: let us deal with our responsibility, in other words with the work we have to carry out, both in the negotiation and in the ministries, or with the time and work to manage the organized effort to mislead, which is also done by the opposition and by the systemic media, but also with great economic interests that are affected, because they were linked to the old political administration, that is to say, all those responsible for the country's progress to the abyss, all those who called us to sell everything, without conditions. However, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that for us as a priority it is for us to continue the work that we have done for the benefit of our citizens, society, economic producers, young people and above all against the affected social strata. We realise that the dense parliamentary work and the areas that we are promoting, mainly against the complexity, strengthen the inability of the Anti-Population to monitor developments, a counter-population which is binding and its internal-party conflicts, and also the dense ideological mist that covers it. That is all the more so when we manage not only to respond to a difficult compromise, but at the same time constantly changing it to the benefit of society. Because, even in the very difficult, like red loans and banks, we were able to have success, by a force that society is giving us first and foremost. Because we had the opportunity, we had, if you like, power and boldness, social power, but also democratic social reference, to recognise and implement a compromise for the benefit of the country. Examples such as the protection of first homes, the recapitalisation of banks with transparency and public control for the first time, the social part of the budget, the recruitment of doctors and health personnel, the drafting of uninsured overages, the strengthening of the humanitarian crisis programme, the completion of the first time financing of hospitals and municipalities from the budget of recession and austerity, are elements that show us that there is hope, that there is potential. Of course, the development of things in Europe, in the difficult geopolitical environment that we are in today, enables us to recognise that our country, through the difficulties, in poverty, in unemployment, is also a factor of stability in the region. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, to see that today, in a country that has gone through a three-fold bankruptcy, we have the opportunity to be a strong voice in Europe that modifies, if you wish, the political debate, but also at the level of the conflicts that are taking place perimeterly in our region, our country is also democratically stable and politically possible, to be the main interlocutor. We know we have too many delays. We know we may also have weaknesses. What we know, of course, is that we are not policy professionals. We are representatives of society and we have the possibility of changing and being judged by society, which you cannot stand to do, so that you do not lose your chairs. Mr Hatzidakis, as rapporteur for the Anti-Population Officer, preferred to use a proverb: 'The donkey is flying?' You know what reminded me of? It was something like "Samara-Venizelou negotiation". The country has lived through this. Just what you have suggested and what you agreed to do in the Yunker proposal in the referendum was exactly what you used as an argument. What the neoliberal core of Europe told you: “Is the donkey flying? It's flying." You didn't care about the country. So recent and so simple. I must say to you that we do not have this point of reference. We have as a point of reference the Greeks, the Greeks and especially those who suffer and are literally trying in the negotiation to strengthen the social sign in order to improve at least the lives of these people. Let me make it clear, however, that we are not at point zero to go to the 'plus one' point. Unfortunately, the previous political forces and the economic system of Greece have taken Greece to the'minor infinity' and it wants a lot of effort, so that we can create a positive one, so that we can get up and apologise, because we must also apologise for the positive elements of our own policy. Of course, we are obliged to apologise to society. Do you know what society is, ladies and gentlemen? All those who profit, their value, their livelihood, gave it to Mr Christoforikos and took it from Greece, who gave it to the "SIEMENS" contract, the maritime loans of the Agricultural Bank, the Post Office, the equipment programs, to all those who accumulate outside the public prosecutors and of course to the large communications lobby, because they are also in the public prosecutor's area these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u297	And the 'brows' of the markets!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u298	But let's come by and see what we're talking about today. We are talking about important parts of the prerequisites, which we were obliged to put in the parliamentary debate and which we prevented and put them effectively. As far as red loans are concerned, we need to clarify the elements of the misinformation: first home housing, consumer housing, all the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship loans, which you know are of priority interest to us, and all the public-guaranteed loans. But what of the other major business loans is included is the installation of shells in Greece? You probably don't know what "dollars" means. So, is there some offshore company that can come here? Is there a company with no registered shares that can come here? Is there a company that doesn't have an operating environment the same as the banks, that can manage a loan? In fact, I was particularly impressed by Mr Venizelos' intervention, when the ministers showed that the cooperation and loan management environment that the borrower has is not allowed to change, even if these new companies receive the service and management of the loan. So it's a glauka in Athens. We are in the homeland of democracy in Athens, but not so much to subject ourselves to the proverbs. No green loan is allowed to go to management as well, except to help the borrower who has another red loan, to see the management of these loans as a whole. And when? After ninety days and one year's margin of time to testify to a sustainability plan, which Mr. Dendia's law, n. 4207, see. Obviously, this must be done by rules already in place in the banking system, that is, loans cannot be transferred without the transparency that we have imposed on the banking sector by the recapitalisation law. Furthermore, it is not permitted to do any, if you wish, hidden or at the expense of the borrower, because we have a fourfold safety net. First of all, the CYPRUS, which becomes the body of public security policy coordination in the credit system, which you have not described. You are probably ignoring that we are applying our own commitment to the management of this sensitive area. There is the Committee of Parliament, which will also draw up a national strategy, but every six months there will be reference to the management of the loans in the House, the centre of democracy, for all parties and not just the government. There is the Consumer Counsellor and there are the centres for providing, informing and supporting borrowers. Furthermore, there is our commitment to establish a new independent authority on this issue. All of this, with legal surroundings and not exclusively the Bank of Greece, but by decision of the Greek Parliament, without any tax exemption for these companies and without any hidden shareholders, practically double-checked by the Bank of Greece and the Ministerial Committee regarding their authorisation. I think this is entirely linked to the enhanced involvement of the public that we have chosen to exist in bank administrations. Because you once put money in an empty barrel, without any control over the administrations, when you left with the recapitalisation of the 25 billion euros of the Greek people you lost, which you added to the debt, to do 10% of the old shareholders of the banks. Is there a danger to the residence? Because that's what the channels say, and that's what Mr. Dendias said. Let me make this right. I believe he did it by omission. He said the objective value of the property should be taken into account for the loan. But there is no question of real estate and housing loans in this bill. Is it possible to influence small and medium-sized entrepreneurship? Oh, no. That's why we're holding time and space for you. Mr. Dendias said he'd have proposals. We are waiting until mid-February to strengthen the framework for the protection of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. There is no change in conditions for borrowers, and of course there is a solution. We are sad, however, when, on the occasion of this bill, colleagues come and are threatening to cut the deposits - this issue has been resolved - and to put a stop to the banking sector. We have heard that from the rapporteur. Is it possible to ask us now, when the banks have been properly recaptured, to increase the public debt for something that the European Central Bank has decided to cost less than that, so as to strengthen the insecurity of our banking system? Are we saying that he cannot stand by when the European Central Bank joins all four systemic banks in Greece in the Basel Treaty? I wonder who they are. The Members of the Democratic Alliance have put it this way. Are we or those who, respectively, and the past of their governments, proved to be valent, why did they serve interests? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, just a little time. I, too, am amazed by the reports that those who react to the management of the loans and do not go to the banks that make them back, to agree to resolve the loan problem, are the large publishing groups and media groups? By whom and who are valents? I wonder. Why should all these loan problems not be solved in the public sphere? I will say something very quickly about the public works contract, which the Parliamentary representative of the Centroon Union has put in. Why's he getting in as a law? It is very simple, because it is amended, ladies and gentlemen, and it is amended for the benefit of the public. And I'll just say that. A project costing a manufacturer 845m euros was compatible in 2007 - and that is why he comes in, not because we chose to do PPPs, but it is a 2007 contract - and started to delay. While it had to end in 2012 at a delay cost of EUR 50 million per year, it was now costing the concessionaire with public responsibility of EUR 220 million. Within this, EUR 91 million is the operating cost. This government negotiated that EUR 129 million, which was the cost of the concessionaire due to the delay caused by the former, would be EUR 23 million. The profit of the negotiation for the public was EUR 106 million. And obviously, from the arbitrations that Mr Karras rightly mentioned, which had a value of EUR 306 million - the construction cost I am talking about now - we managed by negotiating to get to EUR 56.5 million. In other words, we won beyond what the manufacturer thought would get and from the real cost that the independent engineer gave, another 15.5 million. Ask: Was it worth negotiating for 120 million euros? It is twice the cost of uninsured over-ages in the budget. What further did we gain, for which the Opposition reacted? Reduced tolls, analogue tolls, reductions for residents, reductions for employees, reductions for SMEs, access to labour and residents of municipalities free in the local area and a decrease in operating costs by 12%. Compare this with what the Minister said yesterday to the committee, that only since the six-month delay in signing the 'Moreas' Convention, we have lost as public EUR 70 million. What we won from the negotiation, what we lost. That's the difference. It's a number. We are bringing funds into the budget with negotiation and others are giving money from the budget, they are giving off from the fallout of the Greek citizens. That's what we did with the NRP. That's why he's getting into this bill. We managed to be the first country to certify a management system in the European Union for the new ESRB, to quickly get the resources for the Greek economy and to close with prerequisites to Law4314/14, because we also hid this in the procedural debate, the resources until 31/12...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u299	Tell Mr. Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u300	It's just too soon and it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u301	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u302	Do you agree with what he says?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u303	With real figures and real benefits for the Greek economy, we manage to make it at least difficult for society, to get the economy back on track, because we understand that relaunching the economy and restoring the role of work in Greek society will restore our path towards the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Giolas has the floor. Come quickly, Mr. Giola. Unless you want to talk from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the fellow Member who has kindly given me his position. I am too busy in the Committee on Institutions. I wanted to face some inaccuracies first. Objections, wicked? It'll show. It was heard by colleagues from the Officerate that this arrangement occupies the total amount of loans over 100 billion. It's 107 billion if I heard well. It's a big mistake. The loans referred to in this regulation amount to about 45 billion and occupy the loans of large companies - we have said so on several occasions - those with profits of more than 150 million. Is that a danger? You must judge. It has also been heard that the funds are allowed to come in white, these weird ones, with fucked fingernails to come, without any control and supervision. Obviously, you are aware of the procedures and conditions of authorisation provided for in Article 1. However, I will also receive some other information from Article 2 and the paragraph. The principles and methods to be applied in the management of the requirements are set out in detail in the relevant report. They're asking, that's what they're asking. Special reference shall be made to borrowers who are part of socially vulnerable groups. And don't notice that it's a social general term. We know. The word'social' is one. Community law, EC Directive, environmental policy, environmental protection, environmental protection, legislation A word and a surname with which you probably have a long distance. The following subparagraph may be requested to examine the application of the funds in addition to information, data or documents, as indicated. Also, 5(b) of the same article literally passes through X-ray of shareholders and consultants of companies. It states: "It must be established that they have good reputation, sufficient knowledge, competence and experience and must meet the criteria of competence and appropriateness as laid down in the relevant decision of the Bank". Is that the evidence enough to convince you? I come quickly in the draft in question with the introduction that it is an undeniable and imperative need for our country to move forward with structural reforms. We owe this obligation, not because we have been imposed by some third parties, but mainly by us Greeks, for our homeland and especially for the new generation, to all those who leave the country to seek work abroad. It is clear that we are not the first government to recognise this urgent obligation, but we are the first government to have the courage and political will to respond to the mature requirements of the time, moving forward to any reforms that are deemed necessary. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government regulates innovatory terms, in accordance with international practice, the market for non-performing loans. Instead of continuing an endless course of financing the banks by the state, we are resolutely dealing with the key element of undermining the stability of the banking system and ensuring that the banks remain independent and do not require continuous injections of funding from the Greek state. The first phase of the programme includes large business loans and non-domestic housing loans, as I said before. In the second phase, by 15 February, we deliver the regulatory framework for first-stage housing loans, loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers. The new arrangement has multiple benefits. Firstly, it creates a benefit for healthy businesses and as a result of the loan allocations directly contribute funds to our banks, in exchange for the management companies. Secondly, it creates a benefit for credit institutions. With the systematic treatment of non-performing loans, time-consuming enforcement procedures are being circumvented, the result of which is uncertain and dubious, and the banks again focus on financing healthy enterprises, micro-enterprises and consumers. Thirdly, there is a benefit for the debtors themselves, as I said before. The loan management companies have a clearer flexibility than banks to regulate loans and to settle debts gradually. We ensure, at the same time, that management companies do not function inconsistently - I said it before - and it is our absolute commitment morally, but also by express provision of the law, in paragraph 8 of Article 3, that the position of the debtors does not deteriorate because of the transfer of their debt, both genuinely and legally. We are establishing a strict supervision regime for management companies and transferring the requirements from the Bank of Greece. These companies have a seat or branch in Greece and a clear obligation not only to notify their shareholders and members of their boards but also to present a code of conduct which will explain their practices. For the avoidance of surprise, it is expressly foreseen that at least 12 months before any issue of debt precedes an invitation from the bank. We are dealing with the phenomena of unfair borrowing from the so-called call centers, those weird phones, and, you know, we do it without legislating again. Everything else. Legislation exists, we are simply applying strictly the framework that the opposition has voted on and has never implemented. Loans are managed on the basis of the same terms as banks, subject to the conditions laid down in the Act. 3869- of the Katseli Act - overdue households, as well as ethical rules. Businesses continue to have the rights of n. 4307, which bears the name Dendias to present a sustainable prospect of serving their debt obligations. There is a significant number of derogations from the various provisions in force, which we have to deal with. A pillar of our policy is, in principle, the actual implementation of the regulatory framework, in a universal way - and I am talking about structural reforms - while attaching particular weight to the positions of responsibility. We look at policies of the previous governments that have implemented continuous and horizontal wage reductions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President, if you are kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u306	The Transparency Committee is also coming to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u307	But this is increasing, with three hundred and seventeen thousand workers, and we are rationalising the wage scale structure in the context of which we have set ourselves with the budget, we are completely dissociating the level of employees from their wage scale and, finally, we are deciding on no further contraction in the public sector. We do not doubt that there are enough reforms necessary to return the country to sustainable development. The patience of the Greek people has been tested for five years and time is pushing us to deliver work. We are fully aware of the difficulty of the work we are undertaking, but they are equipped with the confidence that the Greek people have shown us on several occasions, we are negotiating and legislating innovatively. We carry out the difficult areas with vision, planning and predetermining the reconstruction of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u308	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the second section of the 3rd Corinth High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we have said so yesterday in committee, and we are accepting ceremonies and operating within suffocating time limits. It is unacceptable what is happening in this Chamber. You've overcome all logic. You have abolished the procedure of the House. We are talking about a procedure more than fundamentally. Are all those included in this multi-project Memorandum Obligations? I'm trying to locate the government's pedagogical and educational character and I can't. I don't understand how you can read in ten hours, understand, evaluate what the legislator has in his mind, his thought, his intention. As far as red loans are concerned today's urgent bill is concerned, one would expect to refer mainly to the subject of urgent legislation. Of its pages, however, thirty-three are concerned with a new fragmented public wage, ten describe a unclear red loan management framework, four describe how we will finance the public with European Union money for research and development, four are about why we have to give an ENVY to technical companies, two are about the management of the ESRB, one concerns wine, one concerns cuts, the known clawback, health expenditure and no one is about reform. I come over the substance of the bill. Yes, it concerns business loans, not consumer loans, first home dwellings, loans guaranteed by the Greek State. You got, you say, 15th of February for them. What does that mean? Do you have a suggestion for later? What will you propose to the institutions? What happens after February 15th? If the institutions accept it, it's good if they don't accept what? We went down last February in negotiations with the institutions, without a plan. We went down in June in a referendum without a plan. Will we have on February 15th? Will we be ready with a plan to negotiate first home loans? Ladies and gentlemen, open the door to the secondary market for red loans with this bill. You're not resisting anything. It is a success that the government says that we have persuaded the institutions of collecting companies to have a share capital of 100,000 euros. From 50,000 euros we raised it to 100,000 euros. That's a big success! Article 1. The Bank of Greece licenses the companies that will buy red loans. Article 2. The Bank of Greece assumes the prudential control of the award-management contracts. On which criteria, what rules will the bank authorize? With what rules and when will it undertake the prudential control of the award contracts? The Code of Conduct for Banks is written by credit institutions and always serves their interests. Have we forgotten that? Articles 37-40, Ministry of Education. Mr Friends' press arrangements cannot be clearly considered as a product of extortion of our creditors. For research into public and private bodies, why should these articles be urgent? Who has forced Mr. Friends to supposedly open up the national dialogue with education? Whenever we don't have what to say, we open up a dialogue, we win time and we forget about it. How many national dialogues have we done for education? What kind of national dialogue are you telling me? In every bill Mr. Friends brings from a provision, from an amendment, from something else, legislates nights, adopts the tactics of our creditors, always according to the words of the reluctant left government, the first Memorandum and radical. What is Mr. Friends looking for? What does he want? Where's he going? Who will attack this time to distract citizens? Article 16 defines the amount of status allowances. It is precisely those provisions that are somewhat deceptive to the nurses' industry. Therefore, while this allowance for all of the heads of departments is set at EUR 290, especially for the head of the hospital’s nursing services, it is reduced to EUR 150. This regulation, admittedly, has no reasonable explanation and is completely unfair. Gentlemen, there are people in the public who really work overtime to serve the citizens, ministries, agencies, CECs, police, fire brigade, everywhere and we, on the contrary, cut them off their fair compensation. The money we'd give them is the money we can invest in reforms. This is how efficient reforms are made. We see what it costs us to provide a quality service, we see what automation costs and we know in how many years we will be amortizing. That's the reforms. Where are these reforms in this subsidisation bill? A great deal is hidden in the phrase 'financially neutral reform of the existing wage bill'. What to learn first about single wage issues? Where to start? Today, in this bill, the SYRIZA - ANEL government is dealing with the question of the single wage bill is co-responsible for those who voted for the failed n. Date of birth: 4024/2011. So you take your share of all the wrongs of the last four years, as it is clearly unreasonable that you are trying to correct the distortions, which led, firstly, to the postponement of all the graduation promotions and therefore all the wage increases, secondly, to the uncontrolled and incomprehensible return of the first grade to too many civil servants, thirdly, to the wage disparities created by the differences between transitional and permanent legislation. Good your intentions, good and your ambitions to find a way out of the problem, as described in the explanatory statement, but with outlets we cannot walk. We need solutions, not outlets. You are co-responsible for depreciating our political system. Indeed, you are coming today to forcefully legislate on the implementation of the Papandreou - Samaras memorials, in terms of your clandestineness, the opportunity to exalt the public in an effective way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Mr President. On the one hand, pretend to release the graduation and, on the other, disconnect wages from graduation. If this is not done properly, new injustices are now being created against civil servants. How are we going to show you confidence, at the moment when you are questioning the Central Association's proposal to identify public wages and leave again uncontrollable the evaluation criteria and unclear the incentives to increase the efficiency of public officials? Soon we will be talking again about slimming a law, as you say in your explanatory statement, trying to throw everything away from the previous ones. That's the end of the excuse for you, gentlemen of the government. You are at this wheel a year and with the right of the "first time left" you are brave, according to your Minister, in deregulation of the operation of the State, without any substantial profit for the Greek taxpayer. I fear that social cohesion and social peace will be retested, mainly because of your curiosity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, too. Mr Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost Greeks and Greek women you are listening to us and seeing us, brother of Minister, a member of SYRIZA, Philis Dimitrios says: "If they confiscate the first residence, citizens will go out with carabines." Let us see, then, the New Democracy, the Athanasios-Doyakus and others - will the citizens obey the instigation of the Syrian Friend? And I add this: will a prosecutor move from the wrongdoing force to prosecute Mr. Phil? Is the chief of the country's third political force only prosecuted for a political speech 2011? Mr. Friend has immunity, you won't vote. The D.A.'s got to move. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Brutsis, a Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, asked SYRIZA Members if they could go to Christmas in their region and meet their voters, citizens. To extend the question: will the New Democracy Members also go to their territories to see the people on Christmas? And what are they gonna look at? They will be told: We are jointly responsible for why we voted for the memorandum - the agreement that you say - on 14 August 2015? That's what we pay today. This is what you are voting on today, the memorandum. If you are calling and say 'no measures, not measures' here. You said then, with your President, that any agreement and measures should be passed on to you. Mr President, Greece is governed by a strong dictatorial government. The background is essentially commanded by the troika. Governments are typical. Governments are basically playing the role of the boxing bag to exterminate the anger of the Greeks. The prices of the assets of the Greeks - houses, plots, businesses - are constantly decreasing and similarly reduced, the wages of the Greeks, who are currently being called upon to pay higher taxes, and are therefore doomed to lose what they have and do not have, ending up inappropriate debt slaves, while the banks are prepared. You've done it in good co-operation with the banks. Banks have already prepared to transfer all private property to foreign hands. The appalling crime that is going on in Greece today is a crime unprecedented in world history. In particular, after the recapitalisation of the banks you have made, knowing that the banks are supposed to be a large debt to the private property of the Greeks, but also the property of business with business loans, it was not at all difficult to conclude that this debt is now being transferred to the hands of new owners. We all understand who the new owners of Greece will now be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Constantinople!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u313	Leave him, Mr. President, that's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Constantinople, quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u315	It is found by means of an eye that, together with all the others, banks are also being left behind, after the biggest robbery of all times at the expense of the sucklers, i.e. the taxpayers, and against the Greek small shareholders, who have forbidden to participate in the recapitalisation, as the Greek state has been banned from participating in the recapitalisation. And so the drama continues today. The government's disastrous work is continuing. That was and is the scandal of the scandal. The entire financial system of Greece, Greece, was privatised, just 770 million euros, after it had been stacked with 40 billion euros, a sum lost by the Greeks overnight. They lost it along with their assets, and it was in the range of 350 billion euros, which was the assets of the banks. There is no doubt that the serial fraud of this kind continues, with the victims of Greek citizens, who are unable to understand what is happening around them. That's why there's Golden Dawn, he's here to tell them the truths, to tell them exactly what's going on. So all of you have done this and continue to do it with unsatisfactory intensity, to carry out a premeditated plan, which you are simply implementing in great comfort, while the Greek people are disgraceful in their sofas, unable to claim self-evidently, to claim his freedom, having lost his hope that you stole it from him. You said 'the hope comes'. According to the Troika analysts in Greece, there is a delayed mobilisation of land values in relation to the rest of Europe, and it is required, they say, normalization of the Greek exception, that the land and property should follow what has also been done in the rest of Europe: the concentration of land and the restriction of micro-ownership, a forced capitalist modernisation. That's what the memorialists say. We are therefore witnessing an unprecedented attack by a 'left' government on many levels, which is one of the most prominent manifestations of the commons, namely the land, and another level of the building stock, mainly public buildings, commercial properties and dwellings. Conquests of generations materially, institutionally, but also symbolically, are lost in a short time through the privatization of the earth, public property and small property. Marxists, then, aim for and incriminate property and at the same time, here is the paranoid, you are now genuine representatives of existing capitalism, i.e. insanity, bipolarism by SYRIZA. Banks are now in the hands of individuals, along with all their assets. So the Greek Government will be able to wash its hands no matter what their governors decide in cooperation with the Bank of Greece, which the world will know in mind, the Bank of Greece is private. Mr Stournaras is an employee of the Rothschilds, there is no state, national, Greek Bank of Greece. So you will no longer take your tail out because the banks belong to foreign hands, you have no responsibility. You're gonna play Pontius Pilates for us. And because there is talk of civil servants, I would like to say that the civil servants will take the prerequisites with today's polynomial plan, some whistle, but you will have stolen from another pocket. Take from one Greek pocket, from the retireds who fall, and give them to another pocket. So you create your own party army, where you can get pins, hoping to keep your position. You're deeply laughed. Mr President, I shall end, because you will probably not be tolerant of me. Let me say that the most important element of the recent slogan imposed on Greece by the extortion of the European Central Bank is the new capitalisation of banks, but which is completely different from the previous ones, after it has been forbidden to listen - hear public participation. This has become a worse conspiracy since April 1941 than the German Government, also - like the German Government of Samaras - Government of Tsipras. In this way, therefore, most of the Greeks' property was owned by foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the great robbery, which is taking place today. I conclude by saying that, in order for the world to be manipulated, you will throw away and give some whistle to sleep and tell him about public debt. The debt is being reduced and the Greeks are supposed to be happy. They won't be happy. Mr. Friends will be heard soon. Mr President, all the government has organized them in cooperation with international loan sharks and aims to end the Greek people. In conclusion, I would like to say that I hope that no one will believe - because we must also refer to this area - that the Greek media, those who sleep the people, are ignorant and are not complaining, since it is not possible to know that bankers throughout the world - also know that the world - ensure their silence with advertising. And not only with ads, but also with underground routes. The same applies to the government - underground routes - which the government is essentially murdered with the Greek people. I'll say one. Greeks resist. Now for everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my remarks on the substance of the legislation currently submitted by the present SYRIZA - ANEL Government for discussion and vote, I would like to highlight two things. Firstly, we have a series of bills - and this bill follows the series of bills - which, from September onwards, all of them since the last elections and the emergence of power on the second left have come under the process of either urgency or urgency. I really wouldn't mention that if it were the exception. As I said, however, it is the rule that this government legislates. Of course, it is not the only inconsistency and inconsistency in terms of its electoral rhetoric between the seats of Parliament and those of the post-elections. The second thing I would like to mention is something Mr Stathakis said in his position, but I can hear it from the mouths of many of the SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues, that what they are bringing today to debate, and all the others that have come to Parliament to vote on are things that the Greek people have known, since they were contained in the memorandum, which Mr Varoufakis, Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA - ANEL government had supposedly negotiated over the previous seven - eight months. So, they say, since these came to a vote in August in the House and then elections were held, the Greek people knew, and once the Greek people knew, all that they were bringing and doing is justified. And they call that unrealistic and arrogant. We must say that the Greek people did not know, ladies and gentlemen. He did not know, for example, that additional measures will come to reduce pensions, which will increase taxes, which will reduce heating oil in weak social groups, which will increase tax on weak social groups and productive groups in this country. The Greek people did not know that. That is why you held elections quickly, in September, before applying what you agreed to, in order to be able to regain, regain, deceive the Greek people for the second time and go back to power. The reality is - moving to the body of this bill - that this pre-election rhetoric you had, which I will say was hypocritical to a large extent - and I think the whole world has begun and understood it - you bring it into the House at the temple of democracy. Because I heard it from a lot of SYRIZA colleagues. From the rapporteur, but also from the Parliamentary Representative of the Government, Mr Famello, what did I hear? As far as red loans are concerned - for which you allow them to be allocated to the aggressive funds, the so-called aggressive market wires, I am lending the expression by the current Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras - only to large companies, with a turnover of more than EUR 150 million and not affecting citizens at all, but also first home loans. They come and say here in the temple of democracy, this inaccuracy, not to say that shameful lie. Why does the law, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, say - and it is good to read it before you vote on it - in Article 3? Paragraph 9 states that the application of the provisions of this Article and of this Law is suspended. In other words, the possibility of selling late loans to aggressive funds is suspended, in which cases? In the credit contracts, which have a mortgage - attachment of first residence. In other words, any loan contract, any loan of any Greek citizen has no attachment, no first-sale mortgage, is sold to the aggressive funds, to the aggressive ‘smalls’ of the market. All farmers, in other words, who have received loans guaranteeing their land, the Greek agricultural land, as you know by 66%, are unable under the present conditions to meet their obligations and are at risk to find their loans in the 'cross' of Mr Tsipras's markets. This is how you ensure that the Greek land, the land of Greek producers, will not be horrendous in aggressive funds? Of course not. Because first - first - they're going to sell these loans, probably. When is it not? And consumer loans. If someone has taken a home - a first home - and got a loan, but has put on a guarantee of an asset his father carried, for example, or some other asset... [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] One minute, Mr President, because what we are discussing is very important. I inform you that this first home loan, yes, can be sold in aggressive funds. And I would ask you very much, Minister, if you believe that what I say is not true, to take the floor and to deny them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u318	I'm disgusting everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u319	But you can't do it because it's a saying. Say where you support the denial. I hope you don't support her in the words...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u321	...but support it in articles that you legislate. As far as major business loans are concerned... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute. Certainly, a social state does not mean to support loans from certain businessmen who have taken it, who have not managed their businesses well, who have perhaps been unlucky and who are at the moment unable to meet the obligations. But what did you do? You've created a business for ten months... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I asked for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u322	Just a minute ago, you said a minute ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u323	The time had not expired, Mr President, then. Thank you very much. What did you do? Ten months you have created a suffocating business environment, you have strangled the market, you have retained liquidity, you have brought bank restrictions to the transfer of funds - capital control - you have created a very entrepreneurial environment, you have led these ten months to not be able to meet their obligations, you have increased red loans by 33% - you have said this from 32% to 42%, from 80 billion to 100 billion - and you are now, after you have created this threatening and hostile environment for businesses that strangled them and you are selling their red loans to aggressive funds, on the aggressive market cords, as you have said. Where do you see that is in the public interest? Where do you see that law will help? Instead of creating the conditions for companies to find solutions and then proceed to these sales. So what you are doing, Mr Minister and colleagues of SYRIZA and the government majority of SYRIZA - ANEL, it is not in the public interest, it is not in the interests of the citizens, it hurts our country and destroys our country. And, instead of seeing how you will give real solutions, you continue with a hypocritical rhetoric, which - I repeat - you have brought it into plenary, mocking your own people and citizens and MPs. We will not allow that to happen. That is why we will not vote on this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u324	The Deputy Minister for Education, Mr. Fotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u325	Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to refer to the provisions of the bill on the financing of research, which is high on the government's agenda, since the use of knowledge and innovation that may arise from it contributes to the country's development effort to overcome the social and economic crisis, but not just that. Moreover, they can respond to future challenges and form the basis for the development of the knowledge-based economy, what is called the 'knowledge economy', creating prospects for the next day after the crisis. I wanted to stress that the dynamics of the research have particular characteristics in terms of the institutional and legal framework that is being applied. Our main concern in the Ministry's research and innovation area is to establish simple and stable rules that can meet the specific needs of research, without causing inconvenience. At the same time, those rules should ensure the public interest. And that's the big bet. This effort is firstly reflected in legislation that replaces problem law 4310/2014 and is expected to be tabled shortly to the House. These regulations ensure the functionality and sustainability of the research bodies, while at the same time laying the foundations for a holistic framework law on research and innovation, which will be followed, and which we aspire to be a long-standing law. This framework law will be the result of broad and in-depth consultation. Four articles in this bill to be passed today have come from these legislation. In particular, Article 37 which amends Article 3 of the Treaty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. See also Law No 4310 and Law No4314, the Law of the NSRP. The aim is to achieve legal certainty, namely clarity. Any dispute with regard to the institutional framework governing research and technological development projects, EBRD projects and co-financed under the EBRD research programmes, i.e. the EBRD 1420 and other EBRD projects, is hereby settled. Article 38 of the Treaty recasts Article 23 of the Treaty. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EEC Treaty in respect of aid for research and development. This makes it clear that public funding may first be provided from the Public Investment Programme to public, research and technological bodies, businesses and other bodies, by means of notices from the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs for actions or EBRD programmes. Secondly, public funding may also be provided in notices from the regional authority of each region. EBRD and public invitation to research bodies can now be made in the regions, thus promoting the strategy of smart expertise in research and innovation in the regions of the country. Thirdly, since these notices fall within the scope of Law No.4314, namely the Law of the NSRP, their evaluation and control will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Law No.4314, as is the case for the system of control and management of the NSRP programmes. On the one hand, the public funding sources are being expanded, on the other hand, disputes are being raised between the latter. See first part, Commentaries Nos 4310 and 4310. There are 4314 today. In the same Article, Article 38 may also provide in the relevant implementing guide of each notice the possibility of certifying expenditure and of verifying compliance with the conditions for carrying out research and technology projects by sworn accountants. This possibility of using sworn auditors is an established practice in European Union research programmes and facilitates the ultimate absorption of Structural Funds resources. The aim is, on the one hand, to speed up the payment to beneficiaries of public funding, on the other hand to increase the reliability of the checks carried out. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Here I would like to table a small legislative improvement in the explanatory statement on this article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u326	I move on to Article 39, which clarifies the legal nature of the objection that a candidate for a programme is entitled to submit. The possibilities for evaluation of proposals are widened so that, in addition to the evaluation committee provided for in the current provision, the evaluation process can be entrusted to individual assessors, each of whom will submit a separate assessment. The aim is to achieve flexibility and maximise dignity. In addition, the same article clearly states that the Ministerial Decision of 2011, which provides the Greek State with a certificate that public research bodies in the country supervised by the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs will maintain obligations arising from the execution of co-financed projects. Aiming in this case is necessary in order to be considered eligible for the advances to the research organisations in the country when they carry out co-financed projects. Finally, Article 40 of the draft law abolishes the provisions of the Law. Regulation (EC) No 4310/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2001 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 4310/2001 and Council Regulation (EC) No 4310/2001 In this way, an agreement is reached with Union law on the security and the award of public contracts, and there is also less direct delegations to be made, thereby increasing transparency and merit. I would also like to refer to Article 6, which defines the General Secretariat of Research and Technology as a perfect structure for the EWRS projects, which is absolutely necessary to meet the specific requirements of the notices and monitoring of research projects. Ladies and gentlemen, these articles are a first, important step towards the rationalisation and simplification of the rules governing the financing of research. In conjunction with the additional legislation to be tabled shortly, it is expected that the research work carried out in the country will be facilitated and, above all, the efforts of the scientific staff of the country will be liberated and very important. For these reasons, their vote is a necessity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u327	Mrs. Kozobol has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I will focus on the chapter on wage regulations for civil servants, local government bodies, legal persons and the ECPO. What are the objectives of this bill and what distortions are they facing? First of all, the problems and distortions arising from the provisions of the Treaty. No 4024/2011, which provided for the single payroll. This law introduced a mixed remuneration scheme whereby each employee was paid on the basis of a degree of payroll, while an evaluation criterion was provided for for their rated development and efficiency criteria to provide incentives. After four years, we can clearly assess the problems arising from the incomplete implementation of the single wage in the light of the needs of the budgetary adjustment, which have led to provisions which have, in fact, inhibited the application of the basic rules of this law, while a number of derogations have been introduced from the original provisions. As an example, I am bringing the regulation of Law 4016/2012, which stipulates that no promotions are made prior to assessment and adjustment of promotion rules, so that the grading promotions envisaged so far have not been made. This, as it is clear, has had many consequences for civil servants, leading them to reasoned discontent and to serious problems with the administration of human resources. This payroll, which brings the bill under discussion, aims to put an end to what is happening in the 'categories', as the Deputy Minister called it, for a whole five-year period. This is a period when in the public sector wages fell by 35%, while the number of public and public workers fell by 35% -40%. It is clear that we need to approach the overall wage bill again, as well as the entire status of civil servants, Otta and others. This is not only apparent in the context of a new medium-term fiscal strategy, but also in the context of modernisation and strengthening public administration. So this is what the government is trying to create with the new law, to address the problems that have arisen, focusing on the removal of the extreme inequalities and on the need to reorientate the remuneration system for civil servants and the wider sector. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the new public sector remuneration scheme is subject to the following three principles: Firstly, the fiscal adjustment, which is vital to the country's economic and political survival. Secondly, equality and dignity, guaranteed by wage developments, on the basis of the official's formal and actual qualifications, personal performance, i.e. personal capacity, which is assessed on an equal footing on the basis of the level of responsibility held by a staff member, the specific working conditions, the exercise of the responsibilities and the wider functioning of the Office to which he belongs. And, thirdly, ensuring the maximum return of officials to serve the public interest. The main elements of the new wage and mark the overall reform effort attempted by the draft law relate to the following key points: Firstly, the new wage rate is disconnected by the level of wages. In this way, the salary development is carried out instantly and follows the total service time held by the staff member. What does that mean? Respect for the graduation and the wage maturation of employees and the elimination of the distortions observed under the different ratings and wage classifications, in accordance with the previous law. Secondly, the new wage law incorporates in its regulations all posted officials serving at offices of members of the Government, Ministers, Secretary-General, Otto nominees with advanced, of course, a payroll for the duration of his term of office in those posts. In addition, the staff of the independent administrative authorities shall be included in the single salary. Thirdly, new wages are formed, including the following: Basic salary. The salaries of officials shall be paid on specific wage scales according to their category of education, such as compulsory education, secondary, technical and university. There are thirteen pay graduations for employees of compulsory and secondary education and nineteen for technology and university. The basic salary is set at EUR 780 for the compulsory, EUR 858 for the IOR at EUR 1,037 and EUR 1,092 respectively for the last two categories. Fourthly, the integration of employees on the relevant wage scales is determined on the basis of the following criteria: the educational category, the years of service and increased formal qualifications. Fifth, a promotional salary classification is provided for officials with increased formal qualifications, postgraduate or doctoral holders and graduates of the School of Public Administration. In other words, employees with a higher skill are being strengthened. Sixth, for the staff of the HR category, there is a change of scale every three years, and for the remaining two years. We must stress that, since the entry into the new system, there will be an increase in the basic salary for about three hundred and fourteen thousand employees, representing 55% of the total. That is to say, the wage growth of all the employees of the single wage bill, which lasts from 2011 to the present day. Seventhly, the bill we are voting on provides for a strengthening of the positions of responsibility, with an increase in the corresponding allowances on average of 14%. The increase in liability allowance shall be paid in full through the application of the new system. Eighth, there is an obligation to move to the pay system on the basis of the tasks performed. This obligation will be implemented by 2018. Ninth, in addition to the allowance, the remaining allowances, i.e. border areas, dangerous and unhealthy work and family benefits, remain at the same level and continue to be paid on the same conditions. On the other hand, where a staff member is entitled to remuneration under the present system, a personal difference is to be maintained, which will be offset by a future increase in the staff member's basic salary on the basis of normal years of service, wage developments and not by a promoted development or allowance on the grounds of liability. This is a provision that ensures no reductions in remuneration. In other words, there are no further reductions in the already reduced wages of civil servants, with provision for maintaining the personal difference for everyone without exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u329	Mrs. Kozobol, please very much, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u330	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the new payroll is the first time that a bottom of the reduction barrel has entered, but one step in the opposite direction is taken. Of course, the aim of the present government is to restore the losses suffered by workers in recent years. In order to do this, however, we must stabilise the economy, stand on its feet, as we say, and take firm steps. One such step is today's new payroll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u331	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u332	As long as time passes, day after day, not week after week, what the older ones have lived, this great PASOK and New Democracy conflict has come back to a government of both, a controversy which, in fact, has been the case about who will best implement the same strategy. Now this seems a lot as long as the time goes. Do something to improve it, Minister, because it looks very much like a photocopy of this classic bipartisanism. And it's all about us. Not just you, but the rest of you. As if we forgot that a year ago others ruled, on the same line, of course, and the next ones came to continue with it. Let's get to the bottom of it now. What are you doing with the bill, maybe smarter? You are now opening the way to not only red loans, but all the loans in the various funds, as we say, for speculative mechanisms. You are now starting with business, you are turning the ground and the rest will go on by 15 February. So because some were marxists once and maybe they say they are now, I'm going to ask the following question. And that's what he's answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u333	Don't insult Mr. Stathakis now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u334	It's about Chaakato.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u335	No, about Statakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u336	I'm saying they claim it is. You have, however, forgotten that. Well, they're gonna forget it now. Okay. So, I say - to ask this question - that, to judge a bill, a policy, there is one basic question: Who is it serving? Unless we're not in class society. Did SYRIZA, in nine months, make an abdominal society? Who, then, serves the bill? Here's the question, and here's the answer. First, does it serve the banks, yes or no? In fact, the banks that are recapitalised by the various funds they invest and others.Huh? Are the banks getting rid of red loans? They're getting rid of them. Does it hurt them? No, of course not. Secondly, they serve the distress funds themselves, as they say. Why? Because they put those loans in hand. And I imagine that there is no fool to think that these funds, speculation, so-called "dollars" etc. They come to lose in Greece or that they will buy loans to lose. They'll come because that's challenging. So after they win, some others lose. That's how it's done. They can't both win. So the borrowers and the funds are going to win? This isn't invented yet. If it's new, say it. So, objectively, they'll win. Thirdly, they will gain business interests, bigger - and don't smile, because we're waiting for you - because they want to put business groups in the hand. Because they're going to get into this dance to put their hands on professional groups, put a number of businesses, which are profitable or can be profitable. So, tell us, are we wrong or right? Is it or isn't it? So what do you think? It also serves borrowers. Isn't that what you're saying? So since it also serves all borrowers, why do you only give business loans and do not give them all? Isn't that a contradiction? You'll give it to February and it'll be noon. Note it. How, then, if you say that the regulation we are doing serves borrowers, only give business and not give all the loans, to help those who have received a loan for their home, for the house they have built in the village or for a holiday home? We have a few questions to ask you. So, what are these distress funds? Ravens, like you've been saying all these years, or pigeons? What is it with your own logic, coral, or St. Bernard's Dogs, who go with the cognac to rescue the frozen workers who are in danger of taking their home? When did you tell the truth? When you were calling them corpses, or now that you are defending and even more advanced, I would say, these measures you are taking and that they will invest and help the economy? You know, the Prime Minister, when he was in the opposition, said, I remember it by saying: "We are not going to allow the homes of the Greek people, the worker, to go to these speculative games, to these speculative funds." I'd say he probably missed a series, because he kept going. And this line said that "we will not let you do it, because we, the SYRIZA - ANEL government, will give it to us." That line forgot. That's exactly what's going on. Remember in here - there is no point in reminding them, why is it well-known - these voices, the characterizations, which the vocabulary was finishing for all this? Now what's changed, really? Because you're government? So the market now, the unharmed markets, and all the rest of it, because the SYRIZA government came? They're coming now and they're gonna invest on other terms? Because you have the economy in your hands? Because the workers have it? Since you will impose other terms, will you mutually benefit agreements and others? Oh, no. Their own interests are served. What is the criticism now made by the New Democracy, the PASOK and others, who have actually come to the tiles? What's the review? Not only here, but generally. The review is: "Children, you got us the job. We made it better." You have come now and you prove that you are better than the teacher in regulating these anti-grass measures. And look at one of these measures. Privatisations. Really, where did all the "nothing to private individuals", "the infrastructure of the country is the property of the Greek people, we are not going to deliver it anywhere" and much more? What are you doing now? Accelerate them at rate very fast. Even what you were saying, not to give it to the humiliation, to say it like that, but at least to take more, even this has now been abandoned. You run at incredible speed, as with the bills. Secondly, the fight by New Democracy, PASOK, from the previous government with the current one: road-strength conventions. What's New Democracy saying? "We made them, you sign them." Isn't that right? Are they different? So who are they serving? And what are you talking about? Because you were saying these before and we must all remember them. We do not agree with that. But what are you talking about? "We give them to you, because you have damaged the crisis." But let us agree with your logic, with which we do not agree. When they have profits, do you get them anything more? No, of course not. When they risk and lose, why? Losing. Why not lose? Why don't you let them lose? Is the economy going to be ruined? No, of course not. Just do not get upset when we prove that you are serving the interests of capital. Third, airports. What has been said about airports here in this Chamber from you when you were opposition wants pages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'll finish. I won't have much time. Now what did you do? You signed the New Democracy Convention, which you denounced as scandalous, unacceptable, national treason, whatever you want. You come and sign it. And what's weird now? And I get it. Mr. Spirtzis comes out and says that she was colonial, that she was, that she was, that she was, that she was, that she was, that she was, that she was, but she's signing it. I know him from the university, and he says that this shows how stable Greece is and what great investment can be made and you get 1.2 billion - how much do you get? - and creates a huge potential. What's right now? The complaint by Mr Spirtzi or Mr Pittsirla, who is in the HIDE and has undertaken to speed up the privatisation and sale of the country's wealth? Who's telling the truth from both of them? Unless you say - that would still be expected, because if you say that, we're done - that we're giving them for for forty years and then we're going to socialize them. That's all you have to say. 'Cause there's gonna be a full humiliation later. Because when you say that the infrastructure of the country must remain in public, it is a strategic issue, beyond national security issues, etc. And you give them for forty years, what are you implying? And what are you going to tell your world about what you've been saying for so many years? That we're gonna get it back after forty years, signing this contract? Isn't that a mock? It's not a joke, though. It is the strategy you had, which you hid, which we denounced, which we revealed and told us things, that we are stuck, superstitious, and we do not even know “you will see what we are going to do”. Here's the results. You are applying the most brutal and barbaric policy, continuing where the previous ones started. Now, as the situation is shaped, it is callous between the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the New Democracy and the rest of who best serves the interests of capital. So in this situation - and I shall end - the workers must turn their backs. It's none of their business. And we call it that. They don't care about that story. Either way, they'll be lost. They must therefore build their own popular alliance, their own camp against this orchid coming from all the other wings and the others who voted and pretend to be the virgins now, that they did not know what they were voting for. When they voted on the third Memorandum on 14 August, they did not know that all the rest would come. And I'm going further: if it were you on June 30, when the program was over, wouldn't you do the same? So to them, in this duplicate today, which has the same strategy in the centre, to build their own alliance, to strengthen class clubs, to regroup, to create conditions for stopping this attack and to set a target for overthrowing. Otherwise they don't have a future. They will have to listen to false hopes, which will result in a barbaric reality. So fight for the overthrow. You continue on this road and we will continue on this road that has shown all the history of mankind and is the struggle for the conflict of the social classes. Unfortunately, the camps have been delimited. You are with the camp of those who possess wealth and we are with the rest of those who produce wealth. This is the real contrast, and the people must see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and five educational attendants from the 1st PESAL Loutraki. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u339	Minister, have you asked for the floor? Here, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Paphi, I think you asked the right question: Cui bono? Who wins? This is always the left side of the question. As far as I am concerned, the problem with your speech and your party in the previous debate was not that it was marxist or classic, but that it was not Marxist and classic enough. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I say, for the Katseli law, I did not expect you to support us and say the same words that New Democracy and Potami said, that the auctions are opening. We supported in these loans people who have a home of up to 200,000-240,000 and people who have an income of up to 35,000. Travellingly, I think that you had to support us in this. Now we're talking about red loans, about everything else. You all want to protect them? What about the big business? So, the old criticism, that the banking system has something to do with the production system, and these relationships need to change and give loans on other terms and cannot continue, that has been forgotten? You can tell us in all this category that perhaps some should not be supported. Some. I'm not saying. You tell us. You can tell us that we do not support those who need and we will see who we will support and what we can negotiate for housing loans, for small and medium-sized loans, for consumer loans. We'll see about that. And you may tell us that we are at your side, protect them and the most sensitive and vulnerable parts of society. But this lack of class separation, that we suddenly support all creditors? But everyone? Nobody thinks he's strategically not paying? Anyone? Not one of them? So I say that in this case, we will discuss, negotiate, and we can make compromises that do not have the class rating, because these are not the connections. But from the JRC I expect a more extensive analysis of class stratification, social stratification and a review that really focuses on class division. I did not see that or what you said in the previous debate about the Katseli Act, nor what you say now about the big business. So the debate should continue, but with more Marx, not less.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u342	Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u343	I was expecting you to be more read. Because, then, there is also the phrase 'behold Rhodes, behold...' - to avoid misunderstanding - why do you not accept the proposal that we have made for the relief of popular households and for loans in general, which is classic and which protects those who must protect? I challenge you! Why, before and now, are you not accepting it? You didn't even bring it in for a conversation. If, therefore, you are asking for a proposal not on socialism, but here, please accept the proposal for a law that the Communist Party of Greece has tabled. Why don't you accept it? I don't want to say theories in general. Secondly, with regard to who is serving. Minister, Mr Chakaloto, we know each other and we need to speak frankly, which is not what you do. What do you think? Let me just tell you. You say, "We will support capital in order for capitalist growth to come out of the crisis, to have jobs with slave labour relations." That's the model you're promoting. Is there anything else you can do? Are you going to socialize the means of production? Are you going to crush the big business interests and get them, make them popular? Don't worry about us on top. In fact, because I do not want to speak and in general, here is the explanatory statement given to me by Mr Karathanasopoulos. So what does the explanatory statement say? Didn't you write it? I don't mean personally. It says, "The proposed arrangements allow the creation of a secondary market of non-performing loans. The creation of such a market will be beneficial to both credit institutions and debtors." Do you not admit that it will be beneficial to credit institutions? Don't you say it out here? Now whether it'll be for the debtors too... I told you two watermelons in a armpits don't fit. Not everyone can win. Both funds and credit institutions and the working world. Who are you finally kidding? Say it different and we'll talk on a different basis. I repeat. Make our proposal to come to debate and pass it and get a bill. But before and now that's not going to happen. And don't tell us we don't have a class report. You know a little modesty doesn't hurt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u344	Not in general, in this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u345	For who has a class report and who fights every day, who we interact with, who goes down the labour movement, who fight in this direction, what interests we defend are known. You gave some hundreds of millions of business groups, and we were opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u347	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u348	Mr Pafile, I do not know if the term "flooded the ball on the platform" is a Marxist term, but that is what I understood you were doing. I asked you a very specific question. I say: should we protect all major business loans? I mean, you don't understand that if that way...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u349	We say no. Why are you continuing with this? No, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u350	No, that's good. So you're supporting us in this. And that will help us banks not to be a "job" and to be able to lend to small and medium-sized enterprises, some of which I imagine you want to increase the bank credit capacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u351	Like the great constructions!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u352	Secondly, do you support us in the Katseli Act, that the limits that we set the 30,000 income and the 200,000, 240,000 family of the four were good interventions? That's what I asked you. I didn't say you were wrong at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u353	Why don't you report him here the law of Katseli?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u354	We got over that last time, every time we say the same thing? You didn't support us last time and I had a little complaint. Thank you for clarifying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u355	You'll stay with the complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u356	Minister, you have closed your complaint. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Keramea. Next is Mr Dannelis, the Parliamentary Representative from Potami, and then Mr Spirtzis, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention will focus on the provisions of the present, concerning the introduction of a new public wage and I shall refer to his positive points and also to his very negative points. I'm starting with the positive ones. The fact is that the single wage introduced in 2011 was never universally implemented. And it is true that it created some distortions that had to be lifted. In this respect, the New Democracy Government had tabled a comprehensive proposal to the partners, which was initially accepted. However, last January's elections prevented us from implementing it. We are pleased to note, therefore, that some of the provisions of these are in line with our proposal and are based on good foundations. Indicatively and sincerely: it is right to promote faster staff with higher qualifications, staff with higher degrees than others. It is right to promote faster employees who, on the basis of an objective assessment - truly objective assessment - are evaluated as excellent for subsequent years. It is also right that the remuneration should be linked to the duties and to the responsibility of each employee. And it is right that the frontier allowance should be received by the person who actually serves at the border, i.e. somewhere near the border. Colleagues, however, I am going to the negative, and unfortunately it is very important and very important. I can explain with three points. First point: Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of an unprecedented economic crisis, that you are constantly increasing taxation on companies, while constantly increasing taxation on individuals, while cutting pensions, coming and legislating an increase in the wages of civil servants? Tell me really, ladies and gentlemen, do you not see the provocative contradiction? And I would remind you that you yourself were the ones who promised an increase in the private sector's minimum wage, from EUR 568 to EUR 751. Not only did you not do that, but you are now coming and raising the wages of civil servants. I ask, ladies and gentlemen: why do you treat private and public officials with two measures and two weights? And I recall that, while the private sector minimum wage remains today at EUR 586, the public is at EUR 786 for compulsory education officials and at EUR 858 for secondary school officials. Not only did you not do anything about the private sector minimum wage, not only increase public sector wages, but also, ladies and gentlemen, show further generosity, provocative generosity to the special advisors and partners of the government. And all of this, ladies and gentlemen, while in the recently adopted budget for 2016 on page 126 of the report, the provision for the single wage was savings - I stress it - not the cost of EUR 2.7 million, and now you have an additional cost of EUR 132 million for the year 2016. And the explanations that have been heard so far at least I have not been convinced. Secondly, while with Article 7 of this present Treaty you broaden the scope and point out that this is a truly single wage, in fact we all know that this is not really a single wage. And I say this because you are actually exempting entire categories of officials, such as journalists, district managers, vice-presidents, those who have personal economic differences. It is not, therefore, a single wage, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to personal differences, I personally have not heard any proposal to rationalise them, namely a fairer distribution, for a correction of any inequality. And I remind you - for those who do not know it - that personal differences are given to about sixty-eight thousand civil servants and about 220 million euros in addition to their normal wages. Third point: With regard to wage developments, with this draft law you are trying to heal problems caused by the problematic application of the 2011 wage. Indeed, officials have been unable to move to their grades and wage scales for some years, because there was no substantial evaluation or because the targeting and judgement of service councils has never been applied. But what is the solution you are proposing, ladies and gentlemen? You go to the other end, to a fully automated system, according to which, without any other condition, the staff member is automatically assigned to the next step, solely on the basis of the years of service unrestrictedly and unrestrictedly. Is that, Ministers, in your opinion, worthy? I'd call this a rather left-wing balancing logic. Also, in the context of wage developments - what will apply from 2018 onwards - suddenly enter the evaluation process. And you're doing it right, but the system you enter presupposes a real and merital evaluation system in force. First of all, at the moment we are talking about such a system does not exist, because the evaluation bill has not, as you know, even been submitted to Parliament. Furthermore, on the basis of the bill you have submitted to the consultation, it is in no way ensured that all civil servants of the public 'excellent', as was done primarily in the context of public administration. So, yes, ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation of wage developments should play a role, but real evaluation. And, in any case, an evaluation procedure that has already been established, namely that there should already be an evaluation system, not an empty letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u358	The system we inherited from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u359	He hasn't come, Minister. So at the moment we are legislating in a blank letter. Finally, I should like to refer to two points concerning the recognition of an institution's pre-service. First point: You are not counting the private sector years of service. I'll tell you with a simple example. A sworn accountant, who has worked for years in an internationally prestigious audit company and comes and hired in taxi, will not count one day of pre-service - valuable service - in the private sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Secondly, the transitional provisions have the following unprecedented and paradoxical. You say that employees' salary is paid according to their duty time to the agency they serve. In other words, imagine a civil servant who, for ten years, has been in one particular post in the public service, then becomes seconded to another post for one month and if his payroll is then calculated, only one month of service will be calculated. I hope this paradox doesn't hide deceit. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing with this - this draft law, in terms of wages, is an example of a legislative initiative which, while at least seemingly moving in the right direction towards resolving a distorted system, ultimately, either by ignorance or by evil, results in social injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the laws are no fun. You need to stop, gentlemen of the government, hide behind imaginary or complex titles, provisions and articles that have nothing to do with the main theme of the bill that we are discussing every time. Are all the provisions that we are called upon to vote on Memorandum Obligations, or are you using the Memorandum Obligations as a specific Trojan Horse, in order to hide your essential weakness for real reforms? Near the provisions on non-performing loans, on the wages of civil servants and the clawback of the Ministry of Health, which are indeed commemorative obligations, you are wrong to bring provisions on wine production, on the financing of public education, on the new structures of the NRP and on the concessions of major road projects; issues which have nothing to do with what the August agreement requires. For many years you have brought us a rag bill, a bill without coherence, without principle, mid-term and finally, a draft law that proves sluggishness and inadequacy on the one hand and on the other, your obsession with practices that are outdated from the past. I will not be tired of repeating and I am deeply sorry about this, but I repeat that you too are repetitively repetitive. You have really lost the sense of the measure in terms of good legislation. Principles which were seen as having been acquired in Parliament for decades have been thrown into the basket of unpurpose in the years of the crisis. You have rightly expressed this as a forceful opposition before January 2015 as a major issue. Since then, what's happened to you? The urgent draft laws, such as the one being discussed, the rain of unrelated amendments and the legislative acts are close to canceling Parliament's own function as a legislative body. In ten months you have brought ninety-three amendments, the large majority of which are late, of course, in the bill that we voted on last week on grazing land. We cannot constantly legislate, ladies and gentlemen, with the soul in the mouth literally. With the bill we are debating today, we are indeed turning a page on the domestic financial system. We welcome with all prices on the domestic market foreign funds, which are known to all 'brows', what you previously broke your clothes. Where did those episcopal outbursts go? And, of course, we have never supported, as a river, the protection of all red loans, those that have become red after your earthquakes and other ideologies. The assignment is foreseen to be made quickly by concise procedures, which those who want to do something really productive or creative in this place cannot even think that there may be. Within twenty days and 100,000 euros only a distress fund will be able to take the fates of tens of thousands of households and business. Time is really minimal, it's amazing. Do you think the banks will agree to sell after the troubled recapitalisation? The Bank of Greece will be responsible for the whole process. By reading paragraph 9 of Article 1, however, I wonder whether the Bank of Greece finds that the establishment of a company or the acquisition of a holding in it hides or aims at money laundering from criminal activity, should it not directly inform the relevant bodies, such as courts, ILOs and others, of such activities? Obviously. Does it, however, have the responsibilities, the necessary management experience or appropriate know-how and staff to cope with such situations? In relation to the provisions concerning the single wage, it is clear that you do not find the wheel. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4024/2011 offered the entire legal framework. There was no political will at that time, unfortunately there is now a lack of political will. And I fear that, in your case, this is not just a lack of political will, but a general allergy to the concept of evaluation that characterizes you. Four years later, you have no plan to suggest how a credible assessment of public officials could be carried out, but also what incentives could be given as well as what counter-incentives. And we need to separate the evaluation from her incrimination as a punishing tool. So, in order for an employee to go beyond himself and actually offer to public administration, what motives do you give him and through what evaluation procedures will you reward him? Article 16 provides that while the amount of EUR 290 is defined as a sub-sample of how we legislate - that is to say it increases by EUR 50, especially for the heads of hospitals' hospitals, it is reduced by EUR 150, that is to say it is reduced by 40%. Do you think a nurse's work is of less value than the work of an administrator of a hospital? The provisions of Article 28 should, in our opinion, add the exclusion of Eurocontrol allowances to air traffic controllers, since the surplus amounts will be paid back to Eurocontrol. Furthermore, this is provided for under European Regulations 390 and 391 of 2013, as well as the general legislative framework for the Single European Sky. We are learning by Article 22 that the servants of the Economic Expert Council, namely the direct associates of the Deputy Minister of Finance, are excluded from the wage bill. We understand the specific operating conditions of the ERC and the gravity of its work. There are, however, many relevant sectors in the public sector. What about them? By opening a hole, what will happen in the event of appeals from other special sectors? What are we going to look for then? The specific approach to the development of the Ministers' partners seems to me to be scandalous and should be withdrawn. I do not know what it is intended to do, beyond normalisation, but in a way that is scandalous, of our real children. And the increases you give who will be charged? Apparently, outside the sacred public cow. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that it is necessary to relaunch the major road projects in the country. But why does it come to a bill on the country's monumental obligations? Should there be much more serious and much more difficult provisions, such as for the IPTO or for the Public Property Evaluation Fund, which we are once again postponing for some time in the ultimate future? Why should we leave open loose ends and even such loose ends? On the other hand, why should these new structures be provided for the NSRF as a personal gift to each Minister involved in the management of the NSRF? We know that there is a time-consuming phenomenon in the use of Community funds for many reasons, not only administrative insufficiency and bureaucracy, but also because we have never prioritised ourselves, we have never designed a whole, we have never exploited European resources to achieve the added value of development, which is the philosophy of European funds. On the occasion of the provisions relating to viticulture, which come as a comet, if you really want to house a dynamic but also extremely problematic sector, why do you not start with the codification of the existing provisions? There are current legislation which starts from 1969 and has yet to come, royal decrees, presidential decrees, joint ministerial decisions which apply at the same time to each other, and one that abolishes articles only from the other. On 27-10-2015, two FECs, 2322 and 2323, were recently adopted, with four joint ministerial decisions on wine and wine matters. I'm telling you, it's a typical example. Ladies and gentlemen, I could not, in closing, comment on the incredible, since it is here and it will succeed me at the Step, the attitude of the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Spirtzi, in the debate on the committee responsible, which I really thought was not listening well. He stated absolute ideological disagreement - and it is absolutely respected - with the agreements concluded by his predecessors to grant the use of the airports in the country, but he finally signed. I was under the impression, Mr Spirtzi, that even the minor disagreements of a minister lead him to a dignified resignation. I really ask myself: How much further deportation is still awaiting to the Left Government until we reach the downfall of the perfect decline? Apart from moral and political issues, however, I believe that it is also the extremely problematic climate, which you are trying to strengthen for an investment spring that the country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. The Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis. Mr Diaras will be followed by SYRIZA and then by the Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, Mr Papachristopoulos. Come on, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u363	First of all, I want to table a formal legislative improvement. In the first paragraph of Article 43 of the draft law, the date of the amendment agreement, which was inadvertent, is corrected. Thus, instead of 9-12-2015, it will be corrected to 12-12-2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u364	I would ask that the honourable Members be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have informed the Committee on Production and Trade, we are bringing the amendment to the Corinth - Tripoli - Kalamata - Lefktro - Sparta, known as 'Moreas'. The amendment shall be accompanied by the concessionaire’s obligation agreement and the concessionaire’s Memorandum of Obligations, i.e. a package of measures in favour of citizens, socially and economically vulnerable groups, of a more correct and fairer charge. These are elements that were inexistent in the original concession contracts, the revised contracts of the rest of the motorways and the proposal that we found from the Samara Government. What's the story? What have we found and what is included in today's agreement we are introducing in the House to be ratified? The project started in 2008. On the basis of the concessionaire’s offer, the maximum operating subsidy amounted to 200 million, to an accuracy of 199 million. The main loan was provided by a very large number of commercial banks, with the main donor and the main financing from the European Investment Bank. Since March 2013, due to the deterioration of the economic crisis and the reduction of traffic loads, the issue of the inability to repay the loans has been raised. In November 2013, it was suspended, mainly by the European Investment Bank, funding, and therefore the project improved, stopped. A provision for an additional operating subsidy was then requested, if the remaining years of the concession were to continue, from 200 million to 330 million. This draft contract was sent to the Court of Auditors in November 1914. The Court of Auditors requested explanations from the Ministry in December 2014. The Ministry then replied, after the elections, obviously, and - in order not to trouble you with dates - the final answer and approval of the Court of Auditors was given on 9 July 2015. The New Democracy, Mr. Hatzidakis, asks us what we did from Genarris. We replied to the Court of Auditors in the gaps that the Court of Auditors had had in sending to the Court of Auditors as government - in the gaps they created in all the projects, in what they gave us stuck in, and, obviously, we also negotiated both with the concessionaires and with the contractors. We did not sign, gentlemen, in the New Democracy, what we were brought to us and that is a major difference. That's why we're going to ask some questions about New Democracy's thinking, maybe one of the river wings, the neoliberal, because there's another one. Why didn't the previous government revise the Morea motorway contract with the rest of the four motorways in December of '13? It's a question. Why, while there is a joint letter from the then Ministers of Finance Giannis Stournaras and Infrastructure Michalis Chrysochoidis to the European Union from the summer of '13, which assures the European authorities that the government will carry out the relaunch of Morea until January 15 did not make a minimum of your commitment, as you say, the country and its credibility and the investment climate? What policy and developmental sensitivity imprint leaves a government like yours, who fails to complete a work that is evolving? A project in its main sections was complete. 92% has been covered. A project in the end is also being done in the homeland of the then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. That is why today's agreement, because we have really negotiated - we have not negotiated other things and I will say them again - has additives. I'm reporting it to solve Mr. Hatzidakis' questions. First, the completion of the work by August 2016 at the latest. Second, that the concessionaire will draw up and submit for approval to the State no later than two months before the end of the construction work, the development of the electronic toll system installed in the project. Thirdly, the concessionaire undertakes to draw up an economic study, after the construction of the project, within eighteen months to amend and reduce the horizontal toll reduction scenario. Fourthly, the concessionaire will make provision for escalating discounts of up to 70% for frequent local users of the motorway, depending on the number of passes. Fifthly, for people with disabilities there will be exemption from the payment of tolls, made by means of a special card. Sixthly, there is the problem of permanent residents, where there is no roadside network for their service, with the introduction of a special regulation, such as in the case of the inhabitants of Spathombourne, and free movement at the level of a cultural municipality. Seventhly, there is agreement on the free passage of voters and their unpaid toll passes through the toll stations of the project throughout the day of the national and self-government elections. In addition to these, the concessionaire undertook the elaboration... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I want to have your tolerance because I have to give concrete answers to the issues that have been raised. The concessionaire undertakes to prepare three studies and deliver them to the Ministry for the Messinia Prefecture. It is the Good Water - Tsakona connection to the Kyparissia motorway, a budget of 6m euros plus VAT, the study and upgrading work by bypassing the Kalamata - Ryzomilos national road, a budget of 1.5m euros plus VAT and the studies of the Ryzomilos - Pylos road, bypassing Pylos - Methoni, a budget of 2.5m euros plus VAT. A total of 12.300,000 VAT. I put the table in the Minutes so that our Members can be informed. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition, in the economic part, the concessionaire undertakes to prepare, before the constructions are completed, the necessary studies to adopt measures to improve the proportionate charge. Project costs decreased by 10% to 12% and limit the additional operating subsidy. In the public interest, the calculation of the compensation to the concessionaire is amended as a result of a delay in the start of a period of subsidised operation. It waives most of its claims for compensation from the Greek State resulting from the initial concession, amounting to EUR 106.6 million. It accepts limiting the potential internal rate of performance, the known IRR, in case of an increase in traffic, set at a maximum of 5%. They maintain the original financial terms and in particular the very favourable low interest rates agreed at the start of the concession in 2008. Loans committed for the project were reduced by 40 million. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to give a comparative picture so that everyone can see it. The concessionaire's compensation during the period of Minister Kalogannis was EUR 67.5 million and the manufacturer's compensation amounted to 62.5 million, a total of 130 million. During the period when Mr Chrysochoidis was Minister at 105.53 million of the concessionaire and 77 million of the manufacturer, a total of 182.53 million. And today it is at EUR 56.5 million of the manufacturer and EUR 23 million of the concessionaire, that is to say, 79.5 million, and we have a year of additional compensation. In other words, we only have 102,53 million fewer, without calculating all the previous ones I have said, and 12 million studies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to the criticism of the New Democracy, by Mr Hatzidakis, because we have not brought about the amendment of the convention so many months, because it says - it is the same as the negotiation that they had made. Save 102 million plus all the rest in favor of society is the same contract? To provide for specific times for the operation of the electronic analogue system is the same contract? Is moving permanent residents free, where there is no other way, and people with disabilities are the same contract? To have discounts of up to 70% for frequent users is the same negotiation? To be able to use the motorway for free to vote is the same negotiation, is it the same? We know that the New Democracy, in the course of the elections, whether national or intra-group, has nothing to do with it. But democracy without elections and equal access for everyone to participation does not exist. However, there are some issues that need to be commented on, because we have neither been nor will be the same. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, when in the past, in the recent past, the government of the country was negotiating, it probably did not bring these results. And today, because the government is negotiating, defending the public interest, citizens, society, the country, and even the market is responding. Banks and contractors and suppliers are responded. Before the elections, you told us that we were allegedly announcing agreements on motorways when we were talking about Ionian Road and E65. Today we bring the same conditions for Morea. And to inform you, we are also giving the reductions that will take effect tomorrow at the Ionian Road frontal stations. They are small reductions, from 15 minutes to 5 minutes, but we continue to fight for the interests of the Greek people. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Spirtzi, please, close now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u367	I shall conclude, Mr President. I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u368	We already gave you more than 50% of the time you were entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u369	You're absolutely right. I'll be done. They asked me questions about airports, which are not in the draft law. ...at the same time, however, when yesterday we discussed the question of the amendment of the Convention, the channels and the media criticised my statement about airports. What does that show, ladies and gentlemen? We do not put ourselves in the negotiations on public procurement, on the defence of the social system, on the life of the Greeks, nor on our support as a government or as a person. If you remember the recent past, when a government, a minister brought such contracts, anthems were in the channels. Yesterday there was no word about the revision of these conventions! We are proud and will continue along the same path to defend the interests of the Greek people, the citizens, the healthy productive forces. It was more important if we signed what we were brought to us and did not negotiate, but we would have to hear good words. It's okay. We're proud. To be cursed and slandered. Here we came with the Greek people, for the Greek people and will serve their interests. The rest of you we give them, because we'll never be the same. We advise you to abandon the tactics'mill, mud, mud, mud, something will remain'. There's nothing left. Two days ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Spirtzi,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u371	I'm done. For the airports I wanted to say. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u372	Honestly, you have now exhausted every tolerance limit from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u373	You're right. Two days ago, it was written...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u374	We know we're right. Shut up here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u375	I shall conclude, Mr President. Two days ago it was written that I left the country I escaped, so I wouldn't sign the airports. I set up four months ago with two Commissioners and twenty-seven Ministers, plus twenty-seven the other day, to leave on this particular day, not to sign the airport contract. One journalist yesterday asked for what we said about airports and privatizations or to "writing" or resign, because we have another political perception and other conscience from the previous government about privatisations. We shall neither "writing" nor resign. You will learn to operate on equal terms, under rules, with transparency on the table. We are not negotiating our country, but for our country. We're not negotiating our people, we're negotiating for our people. We sign with the pain of soul what you have gladly given, ignoring the Greek society in an arrogant manner and insulting the Greek people. We're not the same and we'll never be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u376	Thank you. Before giving Mr Dimitras the floor, Mr Stathakis has asked for the floor to table some legislative improvements. That's two minutes, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u377	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making some legislative improvements, taking into account the comments of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. Three are the major legislative improvements. Where there is unspecified direct and indirect shareholders, the identity of persons and consultants. It is clear that this is the case. The post of advisors shall be added: ‘Members of the board of directors,’ and ‘Members of the board of directors’. This point is clarified. The second issue concerns the 12-month period and whether there have been any notifications and negotiations between the banks in the past. It is clarified that the process starts from the start of this law, which is in force in the 12 months in which the bank side is obliged to inform and make concrete proposals. The third issue concerns KIMIDIS. This has two articles. The first article raised serious objections from Opposition, because it does have ambiguity that can cause problems. I am referring, in other words, to the fact that competitions, declarations, notices and so on, which have not been posted or retrospectively affected by these acts, do not affect the validity of those acts. We're withdrawing that. We maintain Article 2 as it stands, which refers to cases where these have been done and, due to system problems, they have been posted retrospectively and specifically until January 31, 2016. That remains. The first article we withdraw it and we will re-establish it with a much clearer and protected provision than this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Legislative improvements to be distributed, please. Mr. Dimitras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am addressing the Vice-Presidents of Com mittee, other than the Communist Party of Greece, and you disagree where you agree. Evidently, this bill is moving within the framework of those that we voted on in the summer and also in the logic of the European Union. You're complaining about what you've done in the past. They constantly ask PASOK and New Democracy MPs why they come bills under the urgent and urgent procedure, since SYRIZA, when he was opposition, condemned these practices and procedures. Answer: SYRIZA had no experience in governing and managing the system. That's the truth. They were ideologically and ethically placed for the democratic right. Now SYRIZA is ruling under the pressure of deadlines and of meeting financial needs. The Greek people must know that. I hope, however, that this violation of the rules will not continue when this pressure does not exist. I hope so. Why did SYRIZA now decide to take the chestnuts out of the fire? For some, the chestnuts, that is, the savings of the Greeks, left them unguarded and thieves stolen both the chestnuts and the chestnut. The current complainants from New Democracy and PASOK for these problems that are trying to solve the bill should first make their self-criticism after the criticism. What is the cause of red loans? The banks were lending without guarantees and there were whole systems of duplication. They loaned the New Democracy and PASOK parties with hundreds of millions of dollars, which I see no way of turning them and the Greek people will in the end pay them. They loaned the channels - advertisers of their politics, their policy at the time, also with hundreds of millions. That's over eight hundred million. This will still be paid by the Greek people, unfortunately. They loaned many billions to companies, without serious guarantees, with set-aside games of depositors' money. Many of the loans were taken by contributors who were poorer than the companies, the "sinners" S.A. And the bosses would get rich and make money abroad, in tax havens. This recapitalisation money is paid by the Greek people and by the national economy. The judges today created Mr Psomadis - the bank, I mean - Laurentiadis, Konstantinas and others of the scandals, the Post Office and the Agricultural Bank with the five billion and even more that did not reach the courts. So can banks be given a normal function without dealing with red loans? If the banking system is not stabilised, there will be no functioning of the economy. If there is no solution for red loans, this banking system will never be stabilised. No, banks cannot manage red loans themselves, which are about 100 billion. Forty-five billion is red loans of the major debtors, forty-three billion red housing loans, eighteen billion red small and medium-sized loans, thirteen billion red consumer loans. What's the government doing with the bill? Article 1 establishes the framework for the establishment and operation of claims management companies and transfer companies from non-performing loans. Terms and conditions are in place for shareholders, the identity of shareholders who have special holdings to be known, and the identity of shareholders with more than 10% participation is known. The Bank of Greece shall grant authorisation under conditions, for example, that there are no professional or related relationships between the persons referred to in paragraph 2 and, in any case, persons holding political positions or administrative positions in the supervisory authority in order to avoid the influence of supervision. The law provides for consumer and privacy legislation to be complied with. Furthermore, it is necessary for the sale of the claims to have been proposed 12 months before the borrower can adjust its loan. The bill opens only for large business, for companies with a turnover of more than 50 million and not for loans for the first residence. For loans relating to first residence and loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers, the Government will not be allowed to sell them until 15 February, and until then it will undertake to prepare the regulatory framework for the management of other red loans, as I said, first home housing, consumer loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and others. Excessive tax exemptions were prevented for companies to which the loans, these tax exemptions applicable to banks, would be transferred. What should be done in the near future? There is a need from the government for the immediate start of the implementation of the programme for consultancy centres and for the support of borrowers. There is a need for monitoring and vigilance and after the law has been passed. I would like to refer to the extension of public works contracts. For public works, we must say that the current government manages all the diseases of the old system built by PASOK and New Democracy. Projects with NRP funding, which were scheduled to be over in 2012, were stopped due to bad studies and bad contracts and we do not know whether and how much they will cost and whether they will be done. Almost always contractors claim large compensation clauses or threaten to stop projects and lose all relevant European funds. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. By now all the relevant funds had to be used up. The Greek people must learn that when projects do not end by this deadline, money is lost from European programmes. In many categories of projects, when the project is not over, not only will the money not be collected from European programmes, but will have to be repaid by the Greek state and what money has been spent on this project. I have a key question, which I will send in writing to the Minister: how much money has been lost in total for these projects from the NSRP and from the state budget in recent years? Mr Pafilis was right to ask the question: why do you give the contractors so much extra millions of euros? Let them lose it. Let them go bankrupt. No, they're not. They're gonna lose them. The U.S. will be officially bankrupt. And the bosses will stay rich. The loans will not be paid. Projects will not end. The workers will be fired. The NRP money will be lost. Finally, we must also know that those of us who are technicians that this system of design of tenders and public works stinks, the intertwined ones and we must all change them together now in order to save what is being saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u380	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General Tripolis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President. Because we are talking about loans, it does not hurt a small reminder to see how some loans were granted in recent years. I would like to remind you that George Surlas, a member of the New Democracy and one of the most honest Greek politicians, had first asked a question about Koskotta and paid for it. He was looking for 23.5 billion euros, provided by banks for alleged investments, and went directly for abroad, Switzerland and others. He never learned which bankers were involved, because some have made sure they get rid of them at the time. I would also like to remind you of the EUR 5 billion granted to a thousand 300 borrowers - business loans are those - without any guarantee and of course the Greek State was damaged with EUR 5 billion. Behind any such businessman there's probably a politician. I could remind you of a great deal, especially the loans received by the two parties, the EUR 250 million. That's business too. Entrepreneurs are the canals. Entrepreneurs were in a way at the time, after receiving a loan, the two major parties, with only a guarantee of the percentage they will get. It was about 250 million euros. I say all this because I see crocodile tears poured today on these loans. I'm stopping the little backwards here, and I want us to get into the bottom of it. I want to refer to the newspaper "KATHMERINI" in its main article. What for? It says that today Dedicated Opposition does not exist and its lack is a major article in Sunday's newspaper. It's a newspaper that hits SYRIZA ruthlessly and above all us Independent Greeks. Her side effects are obvious. I would also like to remind you that there is a reference to this newspaper that some people are asking for something. What they're asking exactly is that you don't understand. And they say the SYRIZA government falls. Sunday's "Catherine" Journal. Is the alternative ready? What will that mean for the country, for the economy, for Grexit? This is to land a little in today's reality. I mean the following. I have been listening for a few days to arguments - sometimes too much, sometimes right - of the Opposition on excesses that have actually been done, with one difference: before the September elections, there have been excesses? They're done. I think the Prime Minister himself has publicly confessed that, yes, we have said more. I'd like to go ahead with this. Otherwise, we've been waiting for it or else we've found it. Let's just say that excuse doesn't fit. To make our self-criticism - it's not bad - and for the choices we made. There's only one thing I don't understand. They broke through, you know, some elections in September, which no one mentions. It's like they don't exist, like they never did. If these elections were held under conditions that were not good and democratic, I would understand. I believe, however, that no one has called into question the democratic processes. In these elections, therefore, no exaggeration was said either by SYRIZA or by the Independent Greeks. In fact, we said we shot our feet at the time - and we did well - because we didn't want to play with ten million Greeks. We said many times that the cheers of two million at the airport after the break would be turned into hangers after a few days of the same people. No one has been apologized or triumphantly apologized for this thing. There is a great question here. Elections and excesses were not said about these elections - I did not say that the previous elections are the swimming pool of Siloam and I say to make our self-criticism - but I see a persistent report on the January elections before. They're real. I don't question them. Why do we get stuck there at the time that more elections were held? There is one question here. This agreement must be implemented, yes or no? Somebody answer us. Can someone else apply it besides SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks? Let them answer that, too. What exactly do these people want? I do not want to use heavy words, such as'mother virgins' and such, but it is a oxymospheric shape, because everything was written. They knew exactly what they voted for. I'm not hiding from you that I'm one of the people I'm running around with with a bike and they're picking me up on the street and they're saying, "You betrayed us," and so on. I say: "Children, sit down and talk, to see who betrayed who. Were the funds looted? Did 400 billion euros go abroad? Did that happen? Did that happen?’ I'm telling them to sit down and talk about who brought the country where it was brought. But she's not here. I shall refer to the fresh facts, the very recent ones. We've lived through the quality of Officerial Opposition - and not just - and the media in the last month. The "Panusada" was forgotten, which SYRIZA and terrorism had a direct connection. The criminalisation of the banks' recapitalisation is also slowly forgotten. The Schengen Treaty and terrorism are throwing us out of it. Then they caught the 36 euros of Stathakis. They said of these supposedly dreadful thirty three buildings, which cost HIS 36 euros and laughs every bitter one. Then I remember, they caught Spirtzi and Poppa with the couch who gave the fifty and went by saying. If this is the opposition to all the media and the people who express them, I'm very sorry. For me, the central article of the newspaper "Kathimerini" is confirmed. It simply says that there is no opposition. Now, for three days, they have been playing a sympathetic brown from morning to night. Mercy! Is that the depth of counterpopulation? I've been here for four days and I didn't hear a proposal. I'll discuss everything, whatever you want. Get me a proposition. Tell me 'for the insurance I want this', 'for the farmers I want this', to hear them. Here I would like to mention today and tomorrow and remind you of the following: Klaus Reggling, who handles the money we get or take, sent a nine-page report on how the Greek debt is regulated. Some people doubted it until yesterday. I do not want to say about the extension that is being given. We didn't say a haircut. Besides, when you owe a hundred grand, and I ask you tomorrow, and I find a way to pay them after twenty years, I actually make it easier for you. There should be a period of grace, the variable interest rates becoming stable and lower, but more. The four representatives, the famous quartet, recently at a forum attended by Minister Stathakis, committed themselves to the structural adjustment of the debt. What does that mean to us? It's very important, and I heard some people underestimate it. No, friends and friends. No, colleagues. It's the most important thing. Some were trying to link the recapitalisation to the first assessment. It didn't happen. The recapitalisation has been successfully completed. The evaluation's coming. The capital controls - which I say again that this government is not responsible for and will be seen by the historian of the future - end in three, four months. The whole world says that there is a great chance - and here this government will be tested, in serious choices from now on, if it really is possible - that the country should go out on the market and therefore stop any comitology, or at the end of 2016 or at the beginning of 2017. This government will give a sample of writing if Juncker's four development packages, Draghi's monetary relaxation, the 20 billion. Of the low surpluses, the EUR 20 billion It can be used by the NSRP. That's where we'll be tough. Above all - and I'm ending up, because I don't want to eat any more time - moral advantage has it and still has it. I say to you a hundred and fifty Members, a hundred and fifty three, will not allow it in this Chamber, no one will touch the hand in honey. What has been going on for decades and has brought the country here that brought it, will never happen again. I'm telling you to know that. Something changes in this country and changes rapidly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u382	Mr Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. After Mr. Papachristopoulos, who was shallow, maybe I don't look so good. Well, when previous governments cut wages and fired civil servants, they told us that growth would come. So the redundancies are done. A cut of about 40% was made in the wages of civil servants. Is the growth here? There's a recession. Let's go down. Colleagues moved after the election, went to the civil servants, to our colleagues, to our friends and said: “They will cut your wages. Be careful. Now cuts are coming." They were escaping panic. And today they look awkward. Today what do they have to say? We have two sides. On the one hand, New Democracy, which is obviously a strategic deadlock. And since Mr. Hatzidakis spoke of surrealism, say two surrealisms. Surrealism number one: Mr. Hadjidakis and Mrs. Kerameos told us before: "Basically, these arrangements are not yours, children, who bring about the salary, are the arrangements of Mr. Mitsotakis! He had negotiated them and we did not have time to go through them." At the same time, it tells us that these arrangements will cost 150 million annually in the budget. So, Mr. Mitsotakis' arrangements wouldn't cost 150 million? Is that another 150 million? I'm asking to understand. Surrealism number two: The Vice-Presidents of the Committee of the Regions came yesterday to us and told us about the increase in the budget, about the salaries of civil servants, about whether we were ashamed to cut pensions. They really knew the insurance result, and we didn't know? At the same time, these colleagues - who were from Kilkis, from Drama - complained about cutting the frontier allowance. And people did well. Fortunately, it won't be cut. Really, this frontier allowance our colleagues told us what would it be paid for in tunnels? We're kidding in here! And since I said that it would not cut the frontier allowance, I would say that the issue with the head of health units has been resolved, which has become such a long story. The issue with the IKA committees has been resolved and rightly. It was mistakes we had to correct. The issue with the musicians we recognized as TEs, who will continue to be considered TEs, was resolved. I see Mr. Juliarakis is here to tell us, too. At the same time I heard Mrs Kerameros saying that you will do anything about the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the working relations regulation is coming soon, which you have brought into work for so many years. We'll bring her in in the next time. Besides, it's in the deal. We'll bring in arrangements, bring in collective labour contracts. At the same time, immediately activated programmes supporting two thousand unemployed in the next few years are being activated. You'll see! On the other hand, we have PASOK. PASOK comes from left and says to us: "But what you're doing now are increases? These are fine things!' We're totally in agreement. We want bigger increases, too. Can we? We cannot give more increases. Of course, PASOK forgets that he voted for n. 4024/2011, which set wages and at the same time reduced in many cases the wages paid by civil servants by 40%. They also forget - and Mrs Keramea said so well - that this law did not make an automatic wage rise for civil servants, because that is their understanding: 'We must punish them. Few will step up, few will go to grade 2, few will go to grade 1." That's what he said! So it has nothing to do with what we are doing today. And because you say that we do not have an evaluation, the evaluation, ladies and gentlemen, has been posted for consultation and we are moving on to the abstraction of public administration, without even a levelling-down and with real dignity for an efficient public, which we know is disturbing, because you want a party public, what you have built. We get it! But we will proceed to an efficient public with that law that we bring. Can I tell you something last? The EUR 150 million that will fall into the market with these small increases in public officials - and it is true that they are not real and are very small - will go to the market. It will not be 'compensated' by any civil servant to send them to Switzerland, as your friends do. It's just stuff! Let us now come to the red loans. This is where we have to agree. Should red loans be regulated? Obviously, I do have to. Why did the two recapitalisations fail? Because the issue of red loans has not been dealt with. So, we drove to third recapitalisation. Well, we as a government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks are not going to accept a fourth recapitalisation. We will not allow the Greek people to regain burdens for those who are strategic bad payers, especially when these people have businesses with a turnover of more than EUR 50 million! And because I don't have much time, I'm going to say it doesn't open the road to predators, because these businesses will operate under Greek law - yes, the Katseli law will also be included! - they will operate under the Code of Conduct of Banks and under the strict supervision of the Bank of Greece. Also, strict conditions are being introduced into the law. We are not expecting the Bank of Greece, as you would like and probably the lenders would like. We set the prerequisites. The Bank of Greece will only be licensed or not, again under the supervision of a three-member committee appointed by the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday, I note that, as the time has come for the country and for the second subsidization to take place, the market with additional liquidity, to close the first assessment and open up the real debate on debt - which other managers have created - so much increase the tons of confrontation, so you are opposed to arguments of eau and populism on the path in which the country is trying to return, that of social justice, rationality and the economy on a classic basis. And I repeat, as you do, the more you know your political account disappears. We're not gonna do you a favor. And the people's layers will also protect the small and medium-sized ones in our country and we will achieve the great goal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u384	Don't protect them that much!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u385	Don't worry! We'll protect them as long as we can!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr. Santorinio. The speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsikis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the vote on the thirteen prerequisites, we will release the EUR 1 billion that falls short of the first instalment of the loan programme. This opens the way for the first evaluation, which is expected to start in January. The bill includes, inter alia: The provisions on red loans, the single wage in the public sector, arrangements for automatic reimbursement of hospital and pharmaceutical expenses to the public, and a series of agreements concerning amendments to motorway concessions are ratified. In addition, provisions on the NRP, on the financing procedure for research bodies, on the regulation of local wines and on the new Demilitarisation Fund are included. In particular: The first chapter contains arrangements for the management of non-performing loans, i.e. details on the licensing and supervision of non-performing loans and non-performing loans to transfer companies, with a minimum equity of 100 thousand euros, are regulated in order to be under the supervision of the Bank of Greece. In addition, management award contracts and sales and transfer agreements shall be regulated by non-performing loans and credit contracts. Claims on loans or credits not served for more than 90 days may be made available to the above companies. The draft law also provides for the establishment of a special agency per portfolio, which will have the role of an SSR structure for each Ministry. The second chapter includes the uniform salary for civil servants, local government bodies, legal persons governed by public law, legal persons under private law, and the staff of the ECJ with elements of disconnecting grades-paying and establishing wage scales, providing for the reclassification into thirteen wage scales for officials of compulsory and secondary education and in nineteen wage scales for officials of technology and university education, as well as a different wage development based on the category of staff training. Wage growth over a two-year period will be three years. At the same time, the promotion of wages on the basis of the evaluation of employees, with a description, rating and evaluation of jobs, is being introduced. There is also provision for an increase in the liability allowance of EUR 1 000 - the maximum - to the extent of the Director-General. With regard to the management of the service loans, it is foreseen that only companies established in Greece or a Member State of the European Economic Area established in Greece will be managed and transferred, while the licence will be granted by the Bank of Greece. By 15 February 2016, all claims from consumer credit contracts, credit contracts with mortgage or addition of a mortgage on first-stage mortgage, loans and credits granted to small and medium-sized enterprises, as defined by the European Commission Recommendation 2003/361, as well as loans with guarantees from the Greek State, are excluded. In the explanatory memorandum, it is thus provisionally limited to applying to other claims, to loans to large enterprises and non-consumer loans without a mortgage or addition of a first-resident mortgage. The purpose of the provision is to give time to identify any problems that could arise in practice and to correct by appropriate legislative definition the implementation framework prior to the application of the proposed arrangement to the above categories of loans. The bill stipulates that, 12 months before offering for sale the claims of non-performing loans, the borrower and the guarantor must have been proposed by means of an extrajudicial invitation to adjust his loan so as to make it a service. That warning is not relevant in the cases of the contested or admissible claims or claims against non-cooperative borrowers. The bill clarifies that the Code of Conduct and the special care provided for the housing loans of vulnerable groups under the Katseli Act will also apply if their loans are sold. The creation of a market for non-performing loans will be beneficial both for credit institutions and debtors. Banks will be able to directly enhance their liquidity by collecting a portion of their remuneration, which is doubtful whether they would be received by enforcement and, in any event, they would be collected later on. The borrower will be able to obtain from the borrower a much more favourable arrangement, because the issuer would have purchased the claim at a price below the nominal value and therefore a proposal that would be injurious to the bank will be profitable than the issuer. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill defines an automatic refund mechanism for the costs of public hospitals and pharmacys in the EEA. The limit of these costs, above which the clause will apply, will be EUR 570 million for 2016, EUR 550 million for 2017 and EUR 530 million for 2018. Finally, there are topics of protection of the wine sector and the term 'local wine' and a fine of EUR 1 000 to EUR 30,000 is set for wine-growing laboratories that do not fulfil the conditions. SYRIZA - ANEL co-government is taking another important step to rebuild credibility and confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u388	Thank you. The Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u389	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end this government has neither sacred nor loyal. It still brings with it the urgent procedure of one of the anti-grassroots bills, which its own policy, in line with the requirements of large capital, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, all those who have collapsed our people for seven years, since the major economic capitalist crisis began. It does not sweat the ear of the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government and the hundred and fifty three Members of Parliament, faithfully following the models and recipes they knew very well and their predecessors, ruling the various new Republic, PASOK, DIMAR, LAOS - to remember them as well -, technocratics and other personalities. History repeats itself. They show again the need for the new dose, to kneel back to the popular layers, the workers, the poor farmers, the self-employed, the retired, the civil servants, the working people. Of course we must not forget in here - because our people can't forget, their empty pocket reminds him every day - that these new measures, like the others that come, are added to everything that has been loaded on the people's backs in previous years. Nor is there any measure of what is contained in today's prerequisites which, even though not least, dismisses the also heavy and barbaric measures adopted by both SYRIZA and New Democracy at some one year ago. The opposite is true. The whole of these measures, whether they concern taxation or privatisation, the liberalisation of sectors of the economy, or the new wage bill for the public sector, all the rest, are adding new burdens to the people of our country. Today's measures are also taken at the same time as the stepping stone to further escalate the attack, with the insurance law that is being prepared and submitted, as well as this directly, but also for the various work over the next month. All parties - the current government and others, at the moment, opposing - say clearly that all these measures are aimed at restoring the system, that is to say, the increase in their already great profits. On this issue they are constrained with their plastic swords, when about whether the measures are too material or too wasteful, whether privatisations will be done in the same way or otherwise, whether they will progress gradually or resolve immediately without delay, whether reforms in the mechanisms of the state - that same rotten state - will be sufficiently efficient and to what extent. And that's how they score each other to slum the Greek people that they're doing something, they're correcting something, they're saying something, they're deciding something. However, all the things they say, all the terrain, the various controversies - most of them - are targeted. They can't make it through time. They are aimed at how best they will serve, how they will ensure the interests of capital alone. At the same time, they aim to manage in the best possible way the ever-increasing popular discontent, which is formed objectively because of their anti-popular policy. This takes more account of the government's plans and of the organisation of its arguments. That is why they appear to denounce what they themselves sign, with an example of the sale of the fourteen regional airports. That is why we are more and more often told by Mr. Tsipras that he "takes the chestnuts out of the fire", taking all these anti-grassroots measures in fact, that the gentlemen of his government are struggling, struggling and bleeding. No blood, gentlemen of the government! Do you fight and bleed or the Greek people, the workers, the unemployed, the pensioners, the farmers, the self-employed, the youth of our country? You only fight and bleed is for the interests of capital - we will say it again - of the groups that applaud you. Parts of the capital you want to get out of the crisis. You're interested in the few. Most people are mocking them, making fun of them. Is there even one law of your own from which the oligarchy may not benefit? Who will benefit from the anti-French state budget voted by the 50th three Lebanese Members of Parliament? Who will benefit from the new massacre in insurance, from taxation on farmers? Who ultimately benefits from all these prerequisite packages and the reforms - restructuring that you bring today and will bring tomorrow? We know what you're gonna answer. That you may also bring some measures, such as, for example, the homosexual coexistence pact. You have been satisfying a permanent request for years. That's your right. But can such bills or other bills, regardless of their views or opinions, which each of their political powers for one side or another, be seen as a counterweight to the barbarity experienced by the majority of the workers in our country, the constant fast track of measures and bills that take our people downwards to the tarts of impoverishment? You do not even hesitate, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to put on the forefront of your propaganda and the fear, the concern caused by developments in our wider region, in the Eastern Mediterranean, in the Middle East, the clouds of a generalised war that is accumulated because of enormous competition from strong, capitalist states. And at the same time, you want our country to be actively involved in these warplane designs, in the interventions of your allies, on the pretext of dealing with the jihadists, which NATO has been supporting in recent years. Your main objective, we insist, is to disorientate, incorporate the popular reactions, to restrain while you still have the climate of tolerance for false expectations of our people, which you systematically cultivate - and with a master of confession - during all the election periods, starting from 2012 until today. You create inconsistently when you say that your policy - supposedly - aims to restore social justice, because the only in the name of justice in the way you share the measures is constantly and systematically to equalise increasingly and downwardly the wages, pensions, whatever social benefits are left, so that no one can escape this legacy that you are preparing with your laws. Call on the misleading European acquis and best practices in the other Member States of the European Union to convince the people that you are supposed to fight against collective redundancies, the further reduction of trade union activity, the adaptation of working relations to the jungle already formed in the labour market. In fact, you are making use of the trick, the trick, lastly, of presenting, as a derivative of anti-grassroots measures and laws, the involvement of the International Monetary Fund in the programme, and even asking him to leave to leave only the 'good' European Union. And on this issue, as you are well suited to. Because when you refer to the great debt of the country, then the International Monetary Fund, which speaks of haircuts, and the European Union, which does not accept it, becomes 'good'. Of course, it is clear that this debate, as the JRC has been saying for two years, is an expression of deeper competition between the United States of America, Germany, France, other forces of competition to which your Government is also increasingly involved on behalf of the domestic bourgeoisie, and that is why the Greek people will pay it again. The whole debate is "since the shadow is", since either with a recipe from the European Union or a recipe from the International Monetary Fund, your measures and laws are cut and stitched in the interests of the great capital and in any case against the interests of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's multi-project, the rapporteur, the parliamentary representatives, the members of the JRC who spoke yesterday and today, were mentioned in detail. We are voting against it precisely because it contains articles and provisions that take us back. A few months ago, you were talking about 'brows' investors. Some days before you said that you ordered no step back on the'red' loans. Today, you are delivering the business red loans to the "brows", so that you can proceed with Flevaris, with housing and with consumer loans. Here we are, and we'll see and see you again. We'll see who was kidding and who wasn't. You've already agreed. Soon, you won't know where to hide. With the arrangements that you promote large investment groups, mainly abroad, you will get thousands of businesses in the first phase, opening the way for both the houses and the property of the working Greek people. You are engraved with the New Democracy for the crumbs of the increases you give to certain categories of civil servants, to hide how you promote, for example, the evaluation of civil servants, when all these years you and your trade unions have been out in the public tiles when the word "evaluation" was heard. You are continuing the provocative support of monopolist groups, moving towards additional grants of EUR 330 million to the roadmakers. But at the same time, the Lagard lists are locked. Checks for the grand depositors have been put in your drawers. What exactly is going on? How did the checks take place, what did they do? Will they be left only in the chestnuts we hear, in Grandma with the parrot, in the other great-grandfashioned lady, to some of the people you give here and there in public? It's natural within our people that you are born and you are born with reasonable suspicions that you want to cover up, that you cover up some. Why don't you give it all to the public, even those that have been checked so far, because some have already been checked - and move on to the rest and let go of the big talk. Ladies and gentlemen, the major strikes on November 12th and December 3rd, the dozens of rallyings made every week by various clubs and bodies in many branches have also created preconditions for follow-up. Our people and youth are sure they won't stop here. Tonight there are also rallys outside the House. Tomorrow, new rallys are being prepared. New mass strikes are being prepared, decisive battles for January 2016, as many unions have already announced with the new year. The working class, the popular movement, their popular alliance are determined to predate the new year racing, dynamic, classic. There's no other choice for our people. Everything else has already been tested. It's about time he tried his real power. It is only in this way that his hopes and real goals will be realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u391	Mr Nicolopoulos is President of the Christian Democratic Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u392	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has retreated, accepting what all over Greece feared. Going up to Stepma, I heard my fellow Members, my fellow citizens from New Democracy, and I remembered what George Papandreou said: "We became a mock of the losers." After the substantial abolition of the protection of the first home with the new legislative framework of the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Conduct of Banks, the FEK Stournara for the cooperating borrower, the new Katseli law, the multi-legislative bill for the auctions and the bill that we are discussing here today, the last taboo fell. So from "No house in the hands of a banker", we passed: "No house in the hands of a owner" and now we go to "Every house in the hands of a banker". Truly, how can we vote on the most neoliberal ones for five years have been calling for lenders and bankers and who have not dared or thought about it, not to vote for it, the Papandreou, Samaras, Venizelos, even Georgiadis and Kyriakos Mitsotakis? Are we going to deceive the world that believed us? Are we going to betray the confidence of those who believed and fought for the overthrow? Are we going to say 'yes' to the black market hawks? Are we going to open the ferry door to get into our homes for a piece of bread the properties of Greek citizens and disappear the Greek business? The Christian Democratic Party of Greece from the outset protested and opposed, when the ministers accepted the automatic extrajudicial protection of the first home from the auctions, but Maximos seems to have ceased to listen, changed company. You have read, too, the article by Mr Psychni at the 'Sunday' step. You know what I'm talking about. So we asked the Prime Minister, when the Stournara coup took place, which established the cooperating borrower, who imposed the resignation of the borrower from every procedural, constitutionally guaranteed right. Why have we tolerated the exclusion from this protection of traders, traders and entrepreneurs regardless of income? And after all, the ministers claim that they 'protect' the houses of 60% of the Greeks! Where did you discover it, Mr. Ministers, this arithmetic? Ladies and gentlemen, it makes sense for the anger caused by the government's retreat to the demands of lenders. Let us try to figure out what will happen when citizens learn the whole truth, the one that is usually hidden in fine letters. Because, as is clear from what is written precisely, they will come out a few weeks later in the hammer and the housing loans of the first house and the loans of the small and medium-sized enterprises and the consumer as well as those granted with the guarantee of the Greek State. Infidel Thomas, may only listen to the last sentence of Article 3(9): ‘The applicable framework for the transfer of the abovementioned categories of claims temporarily excluded shall be laid down in law appropriately’. To just Greek what does that mean? Transfers of these loans to the new management companies, but possibly under certain other terms and conditions. In fact, in the rapporteur's report, things are clearer, since it is stated that ‘the extension is intended to give time to identify any problems that could arise in practice and to correct before the proposed regulation is applied to the above categories’. Therefore, the categories of exempted loans will be transferred to the ‘cuts’, except that any problems that will arise in practice will be rectified beforehand. That's what the authors of the bill say. Ladies and gentlemen, on the side of the tax collector companies, do you know that all known and unexplainable modern 'grains' are rubbing their hands? We from this Step we want to warn them and tell them that they will find the Greek people united. The government must also understand that it will not find social consensus in these plans. According to information published today in the press, organisations and bodies such as the "Excess" movement and others are preparing throughout Greece for constant mobilisations, in order to prevent the sale of millions of citizens. The government must understand that there will be no social tolerance if we are faced with Spanish images. What will count in society and cost the government very seriously will be to lose the homes of the world. Finally, if there are still some who ask 'what banks and these foreign houses should do with the poor houses of the Greeks?' or 'What can a bank do in Patrizia?', we say: The bank nothing, it's true. But the property exploitation company, which has been entrusted with the management of the property in Patisia, then has many solutions! It will make it available, for example, in the European programme of residence for refugees, absorbing all the relevant funds that have already been committed to addressing the refugee problem. But I could tell you a lot more. Ladies and gentlemen, the Christian-Democratic Party not only does not vote, but also states that it will fight in this House but above all in society, in the peace process, at the side of civil movements and organisations. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, where we met all the time. Where we were together, SYRIZA and Independent Greeks before the elections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me end by reminding you of what Mr Tsipras says even now: 'There is no greater weapon for any government than the support of the people', but adding that 'a government cannot stand without the support of the people'. So let the government not find itself in this loss of support! Ladies and gentlemen, it is an old and tested recipe for the thief to hear from the housekeeper. We stay here and do not do the favor to those who would avoid hearing the voice of their conscience. We live here and fight against such a negative development, which is contrary to what we in the electoral process promised to the citizens who trusted us. We stay here just so we don't deceive them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u393	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u394	The same anti-grass work, in the form of emergency, continues at the expense of the working class and of the people's strata, to rebuild the bank portfolio, by strengthening their liquidity, but also the funds, the cords, as well as a handful of large construction groups, to which you grant state subsidies of EUR 330 million. So much, about, is the millions you ask to return seven hundred thousand farmers, because the state subsidies granted in 2008 and 2009 were illegal. Illegality has been characterised by the European Union and has also fined it. That's right. Drain the people and smash the capital. In fact, the bill prepared it in collaboration with the Finance Minister of the previous government and today's Governor of the Bank of Greece, who at the time you blamed him and conquered him for his liberal policy, which "enhanced capital" and "prise the people", as you said. You continue this policy, too, unsatisfactoryly and quickly. It is the policy that is of benefit and needs the capitalist system to make business groups more competitive. But you are also sore, since, as you say, it applies to large businesses and housing, except for first homes. But for small and medium-sized enterprises, liberalisation will also apply for two months. It's the next step to free the first residence. So the red loan market is being liberalised, any legal restrictions are being lifted, and even housing loans for the first residence of the people's family will be included in this management. And if they don't, then the guarantor takes turns, that is, families, two generations all the time. That's right. We are in the period of liberalisation, which means greater slavery in the dictatorship of capital, monopolies. However, the profits for the ‘cuts’ from the red loans are fully secured. They will multiply, as will the seizures. The draft law, therefore, provides, among other things, for the transfer of claims from contracts in the form of loans and credits, which have been delayed by more than 90 days and for the removal of bank secrecy. But to ask - did the party secretary say so before - why do the Lagard list and other lists not touch them, just as the previous governments have not touched them? Instead, they enjoy your protection. Instead, you are serving us with the parallel programme to show that the prerequisites for anti-grassroots measures are not yours and that creditors and allies have imposed them for the intermediate dose. You're lying! They are measures that enhance the competitiveness of business groups and at the same time remove additional incomes and rights from employees, farmers, micro-professionals, self-employed, retired, and even from unemployed. You get through ENVIRONMENT and VAT. And on top you're mocking us. You're forcing us the parallel program as an alibi. On the one hand, the further impoverishment of massively and violently in the poor populaces and on the other hand, you are propagandaing the package for extreme poverty, the cusitium. "To burn you, Yannis, to lure you oil," says the people's proverb correctly. That's right. On the one hand, you give billions for the recapitalisation of the banks with people's money and at the same time disguise popular layers with VAT of 23% on basic foodstuffs. After all, it is bad for you to say and prove that the government continues to mock, even baptizing new reductions in the wages of the majority of civil servants through the single wage bill, increases, even though from the recent measures - with PASOK, PASOK - New Democracy, cooperation between three and four parties, etc. - they've lost over six wages a year. In addition, the further reduction in wage costs is explicitly foreseen from the mid-term of 2015 and from the third memorandum that you have all voted together. So promote the reduction of the price of labour, in every way and in every sector, in order to ensure capitalist recovery. However, there is no bill that contains no measures against farmers. Promote even greater release in wine. It is not enough for the special tax, which we are of course asking for it to be withdrawn. In Article 42, promote the OECD toolbox to allow the processing of grapes in must and must in wine to take place outside the defined geographical area of the designation of origin. Also, remove the wine control film for numbered and other bottles, i.e. checking what is produced without being replaced by something else. That's what liberation is! We are therefore voting against your urgent bill, which guarantees the profits of capitalists and the poverty of the people. No tolerance to the government! No compromise with the crumbs and injustice and without delay the force of the people's struggle against its brutal measures, its exploitive system and its parties! That's the KIC's message.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u395	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u397	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u398	My intervention will be very short. There is often a argument about lists in Parliament these days. I would especially expect this argument today to be in the opposite direction, namely to congratulate the government on what is happening with lists. There's probably a information deficit. My request, however, ladies and gentlemen, is to compare what has happened in previous years, with the previous lists, and what is happening now. The Lagard list came to Greece in 2010. She's been lost for three years. The ILO went in December 2012 and the audit started, with the problems that this check has. What about the list that came from the Land of Rhineland-Westphalia? He immediately went to the financial prosecutors, immediately the financial prosecutors went and checked where the law and where they had to do and we already have hundreds of VAT, with smaller deposits of 1.5 million and more than 12 million. Mercy! Another thing is the criticism of you - and today we must listen to criticism within Parliament on the lists. Congratulations we should listen to today and know very well that what was said in the government's schedule statements in my speech was the beginning. We started the list story. The old and the new ones are on their way. The German Economy Minister, Westphalia, is coming to sign a contract in January. Be sure that the results will be quick and spectacular and not to do communication fireworks. Because we have a duty, at the same time as the citizen pays these taxes, to exhaust all possibilities for tax justice. That is what the financial prosecutors and the tax authorities do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u399	Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u400	I'll need a minute, Mr. President. Minister, since you were kind enough to answer us, I ask you this. Why are you downgrading and dissolving the IMO? From seven hundred workers you took the five hundred. Why have you canceled the checks and charges made by the IORP all this time and indeed with retroactive power? Tell us who it was about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, I too would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u402	Here, Minister, you have the floor for half a minute too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u403	Just so no disinformation images are created and no destructive, disastrous image is created...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u404	Coverage...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u405	...we understand politically why some people want to do this. But neither do their numbers confirm the reality. The IMO does not disintegrate. A part of the ILO's competence is transferred to other officials from the Ministry of Finance, tax, customs. We're not talking about any dissolution or anything else. The empty organic positions of the IAEA are transferred to the new General Secretariat of Public Revenue and there is already a committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u406	...which belongs to the troika, controlled by the troika.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u407	You know it, it's been published online. There are representatives of the employees, representatives of all the departments of the Ministry. It makes the new organogram, the new organic composition, the new definition of the ILO. The IMO is upgraded, supported. Under no circumstances is it dispersed. As regards what you say about charging, there was a process in previous years regarding the charging. We are not happy for her, as for many others in the tax system, but nothing has to do with whether we are burying, hiding or anything else. I would remind you of this again. Today, do you blame the government for burying, hiding or anything else, when it comes to listing something that had not even been done in the dreams of previous governments? I think it's a bad choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u408	You're cutting their wages, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Minister. Mr Fokas has the floor from the Centroon Union, which his Chief will hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u410	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be in the position of the Members of this House today. I would be ashamed to vote for measures that you were declaring a few months ago, conquering the previous government and promising everything to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, you have sold hope to the Greek people, to a people disappointed and angry, a people who trusted you. This confidence you have demolished and given the citizens today, opening up the way to auctions and selling the red loans for all Greeks after 15 February, leaving in essence the borrowers who are unable to meet their obligations. We are going as an emergency, gentlemen, a clear legal framework. The only clear thing is that we are asking for EUR 100,000 worth of a small studio, as Mr Carras has successfully said. Are we appraising the reputation of the organization? How? They're new businesses. Knowledge? How? On what criteria? There are international standards. Why don't you go over there? Are we appraising his experience? Let's take it. As long as the evaluations are publicly accessible. The business plan that will be aimed at? Development? Really, have you seen someone who's targeting the recession? At least you understood - I imagine - that this abortion you tabled today is not a sign of a left policy. Because I refuse to believe that, in the name of the left's lips, there are arguments which insult our intelligence and cause rage. For we have suddenly heard that the 'brows', in a statement by Mr Tsipras himself, which would lead to the defenceless borrowers, will create new jobs, bring investments and act as a lever for our country's development. Unfortunately, you continue the bowling in the Greek society, following the path that the previous ones have drawn from you. A year ago you wanted to change Europe. You fooled the people with corons on the left wind, which would bring over Europe. You have sold left hand to carry out extreme neoliberal practices. Instead of opening roads of hope, as you promised, you continued to go on the path to the memorials that you not only abolished, but applied with absolute commitment. And now you are voting on these measures, to get the next dose of one billion. You've taken the country out to the hammer, basically opening the way for auctions. You're just afraid to admit it because it runs counter to your left political beliefs. What is happening has no precedent, but of course you have the excuse 'if we do not take the next dose, we will go bankrupt' as the previous ones have said. From Kastelorizo and then experience the same anxiety before disbursing each dose. We are again in the nearest five, and every concept of national sovereignty has been destroyed. All you seem to care about is the satisfaction of your party clientele, your refusal to limit bureaucracy that supports waste and corruption in public. Your refusal to dismantle the public increases counterproductivity. You have not dared to reform, you have not dared to break. We have proposed nine points, which you have welcomed, but you have not implemented them. Instead of seeing something of the nine points in this bill, to cut the pathogens in Greece, we see that you are planning new recruitments and increasing public wages. Your refusal to support the private sector through actions leads to thousands of padlocks across the country. Your refusal to limit the horizontal reduction of incomes dismantles the middle class. I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, implemented 1/10 of what you promised in the election. Sadly, your lie became obsessed, as you were obsessed with the urgency you once had. As far as red loans are concerned, our position is clear. Keep up on what you promised in the election, honour your signature and stop insulting your dignity. I don't want to be tiring, repeating what you were saying at the time. I will only tell you that demagogues and populists in the end are punished by the people and quickly as you have been up, so you will fall. You have proved yourself inferior to the circumstances. You sold your soul to wear government suits. You betrayed a people who trusted you. And from your election revolutionary cheetah, only the suits left without ties. Profess that you failed and stop looking for accomplices in the crime you commit against the country. No one can follow you on the road you've chosen. You will remain in history, Mr Tsipras, as the Prime Minister of lies, of insurmountable populism, of left-wing propaganda, of mocking and of political deception. You finally hit the junkie, Prime Minister, but it wasn't for buying. It was for your government representative to dance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u411	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u412	We are the country where the arrest of a brown on Thessaloniki marks your victory against tax evasion. Congratulations! You managed to lead both politically and morally. I hope you don't have to renegotiate, because every time you do, the country pays harder measures. Because we in the Central Association respect our voters, we refuse to vote for this bill of national humiliation. There are limits, red lines, that you've long violated. That's as far as it goes. Find them with your conscience, if you have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u413	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and an educational attendant from the 1st General High School of Tripoli (B') - my fellow citizens. Be well! We welcome you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Spyros Lykoudis from Potami has the floor and President Leventis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u414	Ladies and gentlemen, our debate today on the prerequisites for disbursement of the next instalment, with the urgency of the urgent procedure, cannot, in my view, be left to the various provisions, whether they relate to red loans, to the salaries of civil servants or to the provisions relating to other ministries. Not that they don't matter. They're very important, too. Not at all! However, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, a key question arises as far as society and the citizens: why still a three-year tough memorandum, after so hard, as you have said, of negotiating which, with an additional debt, with new recession and unemployment, with businesses going away, with capital controls, with the distribution of banks instead of a lentil board, with the removal of deposits and all the other things known and related that brought the country back further, which set it up as an exception and special case, with Grexit still in the corner? All this because? A convincing answer beyond communist propaganda has, in my opinion, not been given. Ladies and gentlemen, the political framework within which the tide and decline of Greek society, values and the Greek political system are perpetuated has not changed. You can understand that the phrase I am saying is true, it involves a disappointment. It didn't change that frame. On the contrary, it's getting worse. Instead of self-criticism and self-awareness, the distortion of reality continues today. We had the frustrating denial of the antimony chimera and the devotion of imaginary hopes. We have been through a number of phases and have been guided with sole responsibility, obviously, by the government in this harsh, as you say, negotiation, but from the result rather disastrous negotiations, in order to reach the full, unconditional, tradition and the signature of the third memorandum by the Prime Minister, in order to save the country. However, this is the second major political lie, because the country was saved in a sense in the summer, but it was also saved by the responsible attitude of the pro-European parties in the opposition, when the government had lost - and remember it all - the majority in the House, to follow up another campaign of deception, that of the parallel programmes called 'fair' and - within introductory terms the word - of burden-sharing, but of dressing the class sign to cover one, in our view, hard anti-popular neoliberal policy by a left-wing government, but in which there seems to be abundant capacity, the disgrace, in a sense and, above all, the promotion. Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the poetry I mentioned before, that the higher the arrogance of power, the more deafening it always sounds - we know that from the past - the fall stake. Watch out for that. These, while it is a huge undertaking to cover simple truth, are actually redistributing poverty and impoverishment and leading to further poorer small and medium-sized strata. This is the real 'pal' - in introductory words the word - against the oligarchy and the interlocutory, with which the Government continues to feed the'minotaurus', unaltered populism. But the new delusions, in our view, will again be disproved. We, ladies and gentlemen, cannot follow you on such a path. The government is the Memorandum, its application is its own. We have exercised - and we will then - creative and not blind opposition. What we have to vote on is vote on it. However, since you feel sufficient and self-sufficient, as you say, "Behold Rhodes, behold and jump." I have said many times - as the Head of the River said the other day, but also on a continuing basis - that the hundreds of fifty three Members you have are small but a sufficient majority to govern. Go, go, go, go, go, go! We are obviously not going to become anyone's attachment. We are returning with great contempt - and I would like to say this - the campaign of the envys and mud which you are dishonestly unleashing against those who are expressing our objections, from governmentists who are in a difficult position and who make no enemies and needless men to reason with them. Ladies and gentlemen, the real prerequisites that should be at the heart of the public debate have a direct and absolute relationship with what we believe should be the real focus of the debate. They should have to do, firstly, with growth and unemployment, with investment - where there is apnea, having collapsed to 1% of GDP - with the growth, friendly and stable fiscal environment for businesses, which, to be licensed, still takes years. Secondly, it should be about the state, which, instead of colonising and improving, is immersed even more in customer relations, in nepotism, in partisanism, inexperience and inefficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, forty-three signatures were needed to approve the glimpse, mutilated and degraded heating allowance. Thirdly, it should be about the collapse of the public health care system, which one out of three needs to resort to the infamous 'book' for basic services. That is not what we call it, but it is according to the recent assessments of the Public Administration Inspectorate. Fourthly, it should be about demolition of the reform of education and, fifthly, about the perpetuation of a dysfunctional political system and a dishonorable and confusing electoral law, on which the present 35% party, without feeling embarrassed, should have taken place. I have borrowed myself from a number of key areas of our economic, social and political life, to show that these are some of the unnecessarily unrequired, which have led us to bankruptcy, swamp and decline in a failed state in Europe, powerless and powerless to the strong winds. The current government is incapable of fulfilling these requirements, because it does not have the will and has a lack of competence. It does not have a European worthy system in mind and its practice and, in our opinion, it lacks a long vision of society and of homeland. It is trapped inside its own glass tower, failed ideas and self-referential left odors. That is why the denial of hopes was and is by definition given and totalitarian. You all know, ladies and gentlemen, there is a widespread frustration in society. The question is until when. Here there is a problem for all of us Members of the great, the vast democratic and reformist area. And we are awkward with this story, ladies and gentlemen, and is it a matter for the democratic reform forces to answer, as soon as possible, this big question: until when is disappointment in Greek society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you, because they are following the meeting and the offices of the groups, that the roll-call vote will begin at 19.30. Two applications have already been submitted from the JRC and New Democracy, and we are waiting for a third of the PASOK. With the economy of the debate, as we said in the morning, the roll-call vote can begin at that time. So let the MPs also be notified to be present. Mr Leventis now has the floor, then Mr Davakis has a short time and the Minister for Finance, Mr Juliarakis. Please, Mr Leventis, have the floor for twelve minutes, with one tolerance, as you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u416	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am increasingly saddened to come to this Chamber because the battle that is taking place is not about saving the country, but about who is to blame. And here - I was listening from my home before I came - and out of Ethiopia, to the channels, the SYRIZA's obsession is that it was the PASOK and the New Democracy. And the view of the neo-democrats is that it is your fault. You are presenting SYRIZA as a new party. When a party goes from 3% to 35% and another party goes from 40% to 4%, it's not a new party, it's a move. Movement office! [[Laughers in the Chamber from the wings of the River and the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Let's explain. Isn't that right? Well, please, SYRIZA is not a new party. The old PASOK clientele, the state-runners, all those appointed for years are the ones who constitute SYRIZA. And what do SYRIZA speakers keep saying? They say you took the loans from PASOK and the New Democracy. But after their executives moved to you, they also took the loans in the first place! So if all of PASOK comes to SYRIZA, and after the loans took over by PASOK, didn't the executives use those that moved to you? I don't understand that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u417	Please, be quiet! You listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u418	We can't!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u419	In any case, let's go square the circle in this Chamber! Of course, the circle will not be squared, our country will be destroyed. I'll tell you something else. Today, in order not to take you away, I accepted some who have private homes and have been told that 13% of VAT you took it to 23%. The nursing homes are now not the strong nursing homes of the past. Now everyone's getting home the elderly, their fathers and their mothers, to retire. In the nursing homes now they are abandoned, who cannot afford to pay. One of the prisoners. Then I was visited by the workers from Neo Syros. I say 'to see'. I knew it was a fortress shipyard that was previously founded and has been linked to Syros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u420	He's in Syros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u421	They are concerned that the mayor there - and they have brought me publications - which are facing a party in the government - not the big, most importantly - wants to make the marina shipyard area. Considers it best for Syros to be a tourist resort - and I don't know what else he wants to do - and they have bows to deport the yard. They did a strike of three and a half months, and now the resumption of the shipyard's work is very difficult. So, Syros goes too. The government is not interfering. And the businessman who has it prefers to save Elefsina and sacrifices Syros. That's the direction. And a thousand about three hundred stay on the road. While, in other words, there are continually sounding all over the place and situations of morbidity, the government camp says we're going well. And he sells airports, like many other things. Of course, these airports were negligent. However, it was incompletely because of the party state that existed. All these companies that were in deficit were not because the companies had no viability. The way in which they were administered, the ones who were recruited and the way they were managed led to bankruptcy. That's how we went to bankruptcy. And we've come to the conclusion that whatever state is a deficit. And SYRIZA shouted "no, I don't sell them!" So he's coming now and he's selling it for the sake of national need. And because reality doesn't change, SYRIZA changed. It's not bad to put a mind on politics. It is not bad for five years to follow crazy roads, promising that there are other solutions and one morning to come to confess that there are no other solutions and that they are sold all over the right at sale. That's not bad! That's a confession of soundness. I don't accept it as bad. I wonder, however, whether these major changes that we make in this place can be made by a government which in September with a 45% abstention - 55% of the electorate - took 40%, 35% and 3.5% of the Kammenos. It's not 40%! So 40% on 55% of the electorate does 22%! Ladies and gentlemen, these changes cannot be made by 22% of the Greek people, because they are strategic and major changes to be decided by a government that is more serious and broader in social terms! I have already been in contact with an official foreigner to whom I have insisted that the agenda for the reforms is wrong today. He insisted on convince me that I have to help the government if it is on a European path. So I told him that both Greece and Europe made a great mistake on their part. This mistake was that in Europe they went to implement reforms that do not match them, because Greece has a Balkan psychology. We need to explain ourselves! Greece has a difficult psychology. It is not easily adapted to the reformist spirit. That is why you can see that the social classes are insisting on the non-opening of professions, insisting on one another and on the other, that is to say on the acquired ones. For example, funds are asking me not to merge. And today I was visited by one of the major funds, and he asked me not to merge - because he is a rich fund - with the other funds because he will lose his assets. So we have a country that's hard to adjust. We have a very difficult adapted country, something Europeans did not know. Europeans thought they could put the clothes on any body and adjust the clothing. But that's not how it works! I have therefore informed you that a change in the agenda for reforms is needed to make them more friendly. Furthermore, I insist that the changes that we are going to make cannot be made by 20% of the Greek people and others swearing. In particular, I have seen tens of thousands of people in the past week and because journalists are saying - and badly, because I am not going to vote for SYRIZA, which Tsipras knows - that I will give a vote to SYRIZA, they would come to me and say 'do not give, because you will also destroy yourself with them, you will also enter the grave with them'. One was not found to tell me "give"!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u422	Of the ten thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u423	Yes! If you want to doubt me, come beside me and one finds you, tell me! But be disguised so they don't know you. Of course, I don't know if they already know you. If you're in doubt! [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] Mr. Theodorakis said that I would vote. He knows I won't give. Isn't that right? Because I am a very Europeanist and very pro-euro. And foreigners were likely to vote because of my great love for the euro, because I consider the euro absolutely essential for the country's development. I forgave old Karamanlis, despite the huge mistakes he made, for putting Greece in Europe. And Site, despite the fact that he had an environment of all kinds of crooks, I forgave him because of EMU. These were strategic achievements: Greece's entry into Europe on Karamanlis and EMU on Simitis. So my love for the euro is great, and in this Chamber I was the only one who has never given up for the euro. You're all taken care of. In New Democracy, they went euros, drachma. You SYRIZA drachma. Now you've turned it, haven't you? The others now became a drachma, I guess. Mr Theocharopoulos - I see him in front of me - wrote in a newspaper on Sunday that I want to be the Minister of Finance. Listen to how it happened: I was invited by Papadakis to "ANDENNA" and I told him that only technocrats should enter because politicians were deceived, they are useless. That's what I told him. And he tells me, "If they put your gun on your head and told you to take a ministry, what would you take?" Hey, I said, the Treasury! It doesn't mean, Mr. Theocharopoulos, that I'm asking. I give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u424	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u425	Mr. President, do we have time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u426	You have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u427	I say, did you press the bell earlier?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u428	No, I didn't press the bell earlier. We all listen with care.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u429	Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as you legislate, you legislate, society does not watch. Samaras said in a month we'll be done with the memos. Whatever you say, you will be disobeyed. Because I love the Prime Minister, I ask him not to have the end of the two precedents, Giorgakis and Samaras, and I ask him to listen to me, to go up to the Presidential Palace, to submit his resignation. It's the only serious... [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] You're laughing! You laugh, of course, but when he does, you'll cry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u430	Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u431	Well, it's the only brave solution. It is not an act of inability to resign the Prime Minister. when this is done for the country. It's an act of responsibility. You laughing, it means you are breast-feeding yourself in a left, old cutting spirit and you cannot adapt. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] I believe, however, that at least some ministers, because they are wise, and the Prime Minister himself, because they are sound, will not keep him from being pulled out of the nose by some blackmailing him that they will not vote for alpha or beta and will do what is imposed on the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Davakis has the floor and then the Minister, Mr Juliarakis. Here, Mr Davaki, you have the floor just now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u433	Mr President, the famous Corinth - Tripoli - Kalamata and the Lefktro - Sparta - has been embodied in the bill under discussion. It is a convention that is now unjustified in Parliament and is the continuation of a project which almost ten years ago, in 2007, this House, in this Chamber, had voted. It is worth wondering that, even late, this government seems to have understood that contracts of this kind which are development instruments for our country, particularly in a difficult and socially and economically tragic way, I would say, cannot proceed, if you continue to breathe, gentlemen of the Government, from your permanent ideas, which are the basis of the various heroic cries, which you have given so long to defend popular interests, to reduce tolls, tolls, to contractors, etc. Today we have reached the point of voting on the same agreement, without a single 'and' in addition, which we brought about a year ago in this Chamber, in order to be ratified and, unfortunately, it had not been done. I see Mr Stathakis, who must remember that in replying to me a year ago on a topical question on this subject, he was amplified and smashed his clothes in favour of the popularity of public works and the role of the spokesman - who was trying to have, if you remember, why you may not remember, since there has been a lot of time since then, but that is the way in which the Practicals - in favour of the people's interests, which you interacted with and interacted with public works. But you must know and I think you are aware of that, because we need common sense, that these projects are important development interventions, even today. However, public-private partnerships, whatever has gone on - and you may have your own ideas or opinions, in any case, not to use heavy expressions - are the reality and is confirmed by what you are bringing today. Not one "and" you have added to what you accused and considered it to be a concession to foreign interests and contractors. The demand from the European Central Bank as it was for an additional EUR 330 million, which will ensure the progress of the project, because it has been requested by the European Central Bank as a security to reduce toll crossings, due to the economic crisis, etc., of the motorway load, continues to exist and follow you. It's 330 million when you said you would fight to reduce tolls, not to pay this amount, etc. You realise that, above all, it is the truth, one truth which, unfortunately, you are avoiding it as the devil is. You have to get into the truth, on the way to truth, because the truth, as the older ones always said, saves. Two questions are raised. And with that I am closing down, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Firstly, why did Minister Spirjis have in his drawer the same contract that he has been bringing here for a year without taking her out of it? And, secondly, what would you say if you were still an anti-populationist and if New Democracy were in the seat office and had been behind a year and, unfortunately, did not bring this particular agreement with this delay? In any case, we are pleased that it is not a tuition fee, but it is a tuition fee now, because 330 million will be paid by the Greek State and we have agreed with the European Central Bank, a tuition fee is and will be paid by the Greek people. However, we could have enjoyed the benefits of this work all the southern Peloponnese a year earlier, without making the heroics you have done so long. What I would like - and Mr Spirtz must listen to it or consult the Minutes - is that there are various issues of the neighbouring regions and regions of Taygetos on the Lefktro - Sparta road. This particular major project has created problems with the rural population of the region: rural roads, facilities, water plants, etc. There must be - and I will come back with a timely question - a strategy to ease these needs of the people of government, in order to resolve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u434	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for ten minutes. He'll also say the legislative improvements at the end or in whatever order he thinks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, I would like to begin with the legislative improvements. This is a series of corrections for the correctness of the meaning of the provisions of the draft law. For example, I mention the two, perhaps more important than that. Restoring the status of receiving the benefit of border regions and including in the draft school advisors' law on liability benefits. They're not the only ones. It's two for examples. There are a number of other legislative improvements that have arisen during the debate on the draft law in the Committee on Economic Affairs yesterday. I put it to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u436	The draft law, therefore, on the management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions for implementing the budgetary objectives and structural reforms agreement contains two major sections, covers two major areas of reform. The first of the two reforms is the framework for regulating the non-performing loans of the Greek banks and the objective of this reform is double. First of all, the improvement of the liquidity conditions of the Greek economy. I would like to remind you that the Greek systemic banks have been successfully recaptured for a few days. However, in their portfolios a very large proportion of non-performing loans remains. On average, this figure is close - and perhaps goes beyond - 45%. Without a solution to the problem of non-performing loans, the liquidity conditions will not be restored and the successful recapitalisation last month will not have the results we want it to have. The draft law, therefore, provides for a solution to the problem of non-performing loans and thus improve liquidity conditions and stimulate economic activity. It does - and this is the second objective of this section - in such a way as to protect the most vulnerable households and businesses as the draft law provides that the market for non-performing loans of large categories, first housing, consumer loans and loans of small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. the backbone of the Greek economy, will be shielded by a very strong institutional framework that excludes speculative funds. This arrangement is provided for in the draft law and will be developed and evolved within the next month and a half. But this section of the draft law is more competent to Mr Stathakis' Minister of Economy and I will give him this time to speak more thoroughly on this matter. What I would like to stress is that it is a key key together with the successful recapitalisation to get the Greek economy ahead. The second major reform that this draft law brings is the public's new wage bill. That's where the targets are, I'd say four. The first aim of the new payroll is to maintain and attract the public sector of young people, who are typically qualified and able to work in order to increase the productivity and quality of the services that the public provides to Greek taxpayers. The second major objective is to eliminate chronic injustices that have so far arisen from the fact that officials of the public with the same qualifications and experience receive very different pay. The third major objective of the new payroll is to restore a climate of confidence among public officials, who together with the private sector workers have lifted over the past five years in a socially unfair way the heavy burden of fiscal adjustment, they have - if you like - met - the consequences of the major recession in 2010-2015. The fourth objective, which we must not overlook, is that any reform with budgetary consequences should take into account the fact that public finances are limited and the budgetary balance of the 2016 budget and the medium-term budgetary adjustment programme. The new wage bill therefore achieves these objectives by creating a new incentive system, a new architecture of public income policy, which three main players play a crucial role. The first is knowledge, i.e. the formal qualifications of officials and new entrants in the public sector. The second is the responsibility that this allowance is being strengthened, as we will see soon and - if you like - the role of executives with special responsibility is restored. The third crucial element is the results of the management assessment of the work they produce. These three factors give the right incentives to increase productivity and the quality of services, without at the same time - and I would like to insist on that - that the wages paid to workers with less qualifications accept a greater reduction than that received over the last five years. In particular, the new salary - to avoid misunderstandings I have heard in particular in the last two days - contains no reduction in the already reduced wages of civil servants by maintaining the personal difference for all civil servants without exception. We must note this: no civil servant's nominal salary is reduced because personal differences are maintained. Secondly, it unleashes for the first time after 2011 the wage growth of all the employees of the new payroll and thus, by 2018, these wages will gradually increase. As I have said, the remuneration of civil servants with increased formal qualifications is being strengthened. We are talking here about the holders of postgraduate diplomas, doctoral diplomas, graduates from the School of Public Administration, who, when reclassifying them to the new single salary, are classified in particularly advanced wage scales. Fourthly, a mechanism of progress is being introduced for excellent officials, secondary legislation will define precisely what we mean by that - of all categories. In this way, it is accelerated - if you like - the employee's wage and performance connection and therefore an incentive is offered to increase the staff member's productivity. Responsibility allowance shall be increased with exactly the same consequences. It increases - if you like - the decompression of wage scales and is encouraged, the responsibility for workers is rewarded. For civil servants whose assessment is not the assessment they themselves would like, the possibility of developing further seminary education skills is offered so that they can fulfil their duties in the way they need to. I would like us to compare precisely this net of positive incentives to improve the services produced with the salary that has been created and applied to date, a wage which the productivity of civil servants was mainly dependent on the fear of redundancies. I would like to say a few words about the budgetary cost of the reform. I heard yesterday from the Qualified Opposition that the cost of reform may jeopardise public finances. First of all, the institutions themselves have accepted that this reform is budgetaryly neutral. What are you cut for? When the institutions themselves agree that it is a reform fiscally neutral, we cannot understand why you are nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u437	We'll keep the video to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u438	But let's see the numbers themselves in the medium term. From 2016 to 2019, this reform that raises the pay of the most skilled, most skilled, better trained public sector officials without reducing the remuneration of the rest in the medium term saves six hundred and eighty-two million euros. That means a successful negotiation for us. These are the results of the negotiation of the left-wing government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u439	Thank you very much, Mr. Juliaraki. Mr. Fortsakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u440	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are discussing an extremely important issue with a process, which is really a process that does not allow us to get into the substance of things, and it is a process which you have often condemned in the past, but we have now come to the point that you have abused the kind we have never done. I would like to dwell on four points very briefly, firstly - firstly a few general thoughts on red loans, then on wages, then on two more points relating to research and education. The bill we are discussing appears to be a bill implementing prerequisites for the memorandum, but we must admit that a large part of it does not concern memorial measures, but measures completely different, such as, for example, the provisions on research and education contained in this bill. I am also going to come back to these provisions. Its two main arrangements refer to red loans and to the single wage bill. For red loans I will make four very brief remarks. First of all, I would stress that we cannot ignore all the things that SYRIZA declared up to September. The Prime Minister has repeatedly stated that he will not give in to the funds, and yet we have today a bill which opens the door wide to these funds - coral, and after 15 February will now receive a dramatic dimension. We have an inconsistency that is really unprecedented. Second point. I would stress that there is a huge government responsibility for the vertical increase in red loans. At the end of 2014, these loans reached around 34%, 33.8% in fact, while they had already stabilised from the end of 2013 to 32%, in fact 31.9%. It was 52% last October, and this is undoubtedly the result of a genuinely foreign government policy, which made this a problem which we cannot control. Point 3. The government, for red loans, has always made little use of the enormous potential of the Law Treasury, Mr. 4307/2014, who encouraged the involvement of bank debtors in a debt adjustment or write-off programme. I think we can without any hesitation say that this law was far better than the law that comes today and which Parliament is discussing at the moment. The handover to the Red Loan Funds, where we will end up having a speculative behaviour, of course, will hit our economy critically. I would remind you that according to the Bank of Greece's figures, the total amount to which the assessment of the Greek total real estate amounted, before the crisis, was close to 900 billion, while today the best valuations bring it to 500, the strictest under 300. So we have a huge discrepancy in any case and the red loans of course come to make this problem worse. I note that what is happening here with red loans, that is, the handover to speculative funds, does not only take place in red loans. It was also done in the banks, and unfortunately it is also done in the HIDE in the form that the HIDE will take from now on. And that's the fourth point. I would remind you that at the end of 2014 the four Greek banks had successfully passed the stress tests of the European Central Bank and therefore, based on the results of the simulation exercises, they did not have to proceed to capital increases. The proportion of loans that were not served was stabilised, as I have already said, and was gradually falling. What was the impact of SYRIZA - ANEL Government? The total deposits and flows of credit institutions since December 2014 have decreased by 50 billion euros or - if you want to say it in percentages -25% in total. In October 2015, red loans reached 52% according to the figures of the European Central Bank, while the value of the bank shares held by the Greek State was about 2.5 billion before the recapitalisation, from EUR 15 billion at the end of 2014. In other words, we have a 85% reduction. Finally, I recall that the government responsible returned the EUR 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund to the European Financial Stability Fund. I would remind you that Alpha Bank's share in 2014 from 0.65 went in 2015 to 0.04, Eurobank's from 0.31 to 0.01, Piraeus Bank's 1,17 to 0.03 and National Bank's from 2.2 to 0.02! In other words, we have sixteen times down for Alpha Bank, thirty times down for Eurobank, six times down for Piraeus Bank and - alas! - A hundred ten times down for the National Bank. And only those numbers are creepy. Today, the estimate of the participation of the Financial Stability Fund is around EUR 500 million from EUR 3.3 billion at the beginning of November 2015, immediately after the completion of the overall assessment exercise, and the percentage of its participation is estimated to have decreased to 25% in the Pereira BANK, from 66.9% to ALPHA BANK at 11% from 66.2% to 2.5% in EUROBANK from 35% and 33% in the NATIONAL BANK from 57.3%. The new bank owners acquired most of the Greek banking system and of course their entire control, paying just EUR 5 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be speaking for less than a minute to say that for the second large chapter, what is mentioned in the wage bill, and it seems that an effort is being made in the positive direction, and indeed the disconnection of wages and the different wage developments according to the category of education and evaluation are positive, yet a large number of negative elements depreciate these provisions. There's no...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u441	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u442	There is no fiscal neutrality, there is no transparency about how pensions are granted, and it is not taken into account that there are categories of population which suffer at the time of indirect increase in wages.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u444	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will only say that, unfortunately, four provisions are also contained, which deal with important research and education issues, which are negative. We shall also vote against these provisions, as will the others. And we really regret that, while the debate on education has begun, the government continues gradually to bring about important regulations and to curb the field, which we are called upon to discuss. We'll be negative on everything. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. Mr. Friends has the floor for eight minutes, and then Mr. Loverdos for three minutes. We'll hear speakers, and by 19:30, we'll be done. The economy of the debate is specific. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we have before us is a mandatory satisfaction - a vote of measures, which under the well-known circumstances we took as an obligation in the summer and then, with the Greek people's vote, we tried to negotiate and improve. It reflects the correlation of power here and in Europe, as it has now been shaped, but with a dynamic. Because the Europe we know, through its own difficult conditions, impasses, which are not only economic, but it seems to be increasingly political, it is possible to change the pace of action. I am referring to the courageous development of 'leenism', I am referring to the fact that even the leader of the SPD, Gabriel, has been forced to give neoliberalism and unemployment this bold right-wing development in France, and I am also referring to the refugee issue, which creates new ideological and political areas and restores programmes and possibilities for the European process. Greece is therefore at the heart of these developments, because its problem presupposes, but also predicts this development of Europe. It's not an isolated problem in the Balkans. The Greek problem is a problem that has already been raised, in a dynamic way, on the part of the Government, in European developments. It is obvious that these developments in Europe, in Greece, are being experienced through a protracted representation crisis, which is evident from the fact that after four successive elections within a year the Greek people have given the mandate to the SYRIZA Government, knowing the difficulties, knowing of the problems and the threatened deadlocks, if this order was removed in the middle, at the beginning of the effort. At the same time, the Greek people in four successive elections within a year insists on sending a message that they do not want developments to come back. A characteristic of this message is the consequences, the consequences, which have already been initiated by the crisis of representation, both in the area of New Democracy and in the other versions of conservative representations in our country. I do not want to go any further, but developments in the New Democracy do not only concern New Democracy, even though they concern the New Democracy above all. They are all about the need for stability in the political system. This does not, however, result from the insistence on deadlocked neoliberal policies, on deadlocked and unscrupulous social policies, which have led the country to today's reality, but also from the expressions of these policies to eternal condemnation, which is not easy to find out from various tactics of the communication text. It is obvious that developments in the New Democracy, which do not concern problems, electronic system accidents, but concern deep identity crisis, will also affect all the forces of the traditional monumental and conservative space. It is precisely these developments that we understand, depending on the development of social problems, the explosiveity of social problems, how the extreme right, the nazi extreme right of the law-makers, in our country. Contrary to what is happening in the other countries, in the area of southern Europe, starting from Greece, after Portugal and soon in Spain, a democratic emblem is formed. Citizens do not seek solutions to their major state problems towards regression in mid-war, nazi structures, but seek, is the truth not always convinced, in due time, through their own problems and personal or collective deadlocks, solutions in the wider left area. This is the message launched by Greece, it extends to Portugal, with the new government and we may also have results in Spain tomorrow. I stress this because if we do not see the big picture, the great canvass of the problems that we face as a country, it is certain that we cannot give any convincing response. If we do not reach a horizon in Europe, in the world and in our neighbourhood of positive outlets, it is certain that we cannot give our own answers, no matter how well we have good wishes. I heard Mr Fortsakis, the representative of the New Democracy for education - with whom yesterday, as with the representatives of the other parties, we had an interesting debate in the House on the national and social dialogue that the government has started - to refer to the issues of education. I would like to say that in conditions of deep budgetary crisis and unscrupulous budgetary commitments we have managed this year in the budget to overhaul the drop in public spending on education, which is about -35% in the last five years of the memorandum, at 2.8% of GDP, which corresponds to about EUR 300 million more than the 2016 budget, as set out in the medium-term programme of the Government of Samaras and also an amount which obviously does not follow the downward trend of 2% of GDP for 2018, which had foreseen the medium-term programme of the Government of Samaras - Venizelos and the other Memorandum Conservative forces, which is now being changed at the Government's initiative. The parallel programme which we are promoting in various social areas concerns compensatory choices, such as in the field of education, as in the area of wages, slowly in the public sector, such as the issue of appointments, such as the question of rectification of education and the health system, as well as insurance - we will see it after Christmas - with the aim of increasing contributions and maintaining the level of pensions. It is obvious that this parallel programme gives a perspective for our country, which only a left-wing government can give it, a prospect that is, however, necessary for it to be proved effective to be part of a horizon of change in the European area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u447	Thank you very much, Mr. Philly. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Tripoli (C) The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, may I, as a parliamentary representative, speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u449	Not now. After Mr. Loverdos speaking for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u450	I too, Mr President, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u451	Will the rapporteurs be able to say two words?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u452	Mr Theocharis has asked me for three minutes and Mr Brutsis is asking for the floor as a parliamentary representative. That's it. The two main rapporteurs will not be inclined. These three-minute speeches and two-speaking party leaders are left. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u453	There are many amendments that have been made with regard to benefits. It has not been included, although Mr Vernardakis has assured us that the relevant allocation for air traffic controllers will be included, although it is not the budget, it is Community resources and it will be reimbursed. We do not agree at all with authorising the relevant ministers to amend legislation on border areas. And if it's going that way, let's add areas, not remove them. After all, Mr President, it is a myth of growth. Replaces the abolition of wage developments, which monitors grading, by granting a half-wage allowance and the other half we have reduced, as shown by relevant tables that have been flooded by newspapers, one of which I am tabling. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Second, Mr. Stathakis, Mr. Stathakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u454	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u455	Have you received an opinion from the European Central Bank on the issues of red business loans? The Scientific Research Council, as well as directly the Community legislation and the relevant Council decision, defines it as a prerequisite. In the Republic of Cyprus, which requested and received such an opinion, it is stated that these companies that are to be created must end the Bank of Greece for its services. If you have requested or have such an arrangement, tell us now before the debate is closed. Also, in Article 36 for ports, you provide for the institution of arbitration from the outset, by way of derogation from all other other arbitration laws and authorize the administration to do so. This is completely unconstitutional and you have the time to see it until we're done. Unfortunately, Mr Blonde and all the debate on clawback did not come on the subject of the pharmaceutical expenditure of the EEA Pharmaceuticals remains in the air. Mr President, with the provisions already passed by the majority, refunds for 2016, but also for 2017 and 2018, with a reduced trend of 570 million for 2016, 550 million for 2017 and 530 million for 2018, while the government provides for growth. However, as those involved in health know, when there is growth, there is also a wider margin for the medical costs of hospitals in particular. It is not enough that you put the clawback on, you also add a regulation which is a confession of failure for the Ministry of Health negotiators. It is not possible to accept that Greece will, according to your forecasts, have growth and go to a reduction in the pharmacopoeia of EEA pharmacopoeia, which I recall for very serious diseases. You also have provision in your draft law - and it will go tomorrow to the committee responsible - to increase the number of people who will return insurance from the public health system while uninsured. They're bigger charges. How will you achieve this without providing for the relevant costs and when there is a further reduction in the medical costs of hospitals? Cases, speculation, and lies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Finally, with regard to what has been said, not by the Minister responsible, and with regard to the negotiation that is now going to take place, it is assumed, for the first time, that for the first time, for the prices - and I close with it - we were doing the EEA, we transferred the invoicing powers to the Ministry of Health and to the products mentioned by the Deputy Minister, we have made a series of reductions and the further reductions are desirable if they are achieved. However, their climate is so small - I am referring to the examples given here by the Minister - which do not concern the drum conflicts with which the regulation is being put in Parliament to debate tomorrow and to vote. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Lazarides has the floor by the ANELs, who is the last of the ordinary speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the opposition has chosen sterile controversy and not the constructive - but not the constructive - dialogue. No proposal, no position, only barren counterpart and no trace of self-criticism. Because this is where we arrived because of their policy, because of their criminal choices, which killed society and the economy. We have heard the rapporteur, former Minister for Development, talking about everything, but we have heard about the period of his own term of office. He was Minister of Development. What development? The degradation of society and the economy. He did not talk to us about his term of office, because not only was there no growth, but instead they closed factories, craft industries and shops. This was essentially about the government of demolished furnaces and closed stores. Now, all these measures come to cure their own failures, their own catastrophic choices. You, gentlemen, with your policy, have always tried to cooperate with the lenders to transfer the public debt to private individuals' backs, turning it into private. But the failure of your operations was such that you charged private individuals - while private debt was the smallest within the European Union - and at the same time you increased the public debt ratio - GDP from 120% in 2009 to 185% in December 2014. In other words, while the problem was limited to public debt, you managed to create a problem with private debt as well. I have heard the Potami rapporteur suggest a reduction in the bank requirements to the borrowers. And I ask, why didn't this proposal happen when you were in the ranks of the advisers of the Ministry of Finance, and indeed a first-class executive? Why didn't you suggest it then? On the contrary, you supported measures to overtax the Greeks. We've seen a lot of paradoxes these days. We have seen even a preconceived member of the New Democracy defending Chrysochide policy, the policy of the once great party, which once opposed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill on the problem of red loans or non-performing loans, which have become the last major social and economic problem. What is the problem with business? In the economic recession over the last five years. From this growth of red loans, damage has been recorded in the banks with serious consequences for the stability of our banking system. At the same time, banks do not make arrangements or suggestions to settle loans by debtors because their members do not have the legal coverage to do so. They are at risk of being accused of infidelity and, therefore, it maintains this existing situation which is hurting businesses, debtors and banks. The regulations that are under discussion today aim to solve these problems. The possibility of creating a secondary market for red or non-performing loans. The creation of this market will enable credit institutions to directly strengthen their liquidity by collecting part of their claims - which is doubtful whether they would be collected - but also to debtors or borrowers will be able to negotiate more favourable arrangements for the settlement of their debts or even haircuts. We must stress that all this concerns businesses with more than EUR 50 million and with over two hundred and fifty employees. At the same time, there is a strict supervision regime for these companies that will be called upon to manage the loans, as they are obliged to comply with the Banks' Code of Conduct to ensure that in no case will the position of the debtors worsened by the transfer of their debts. The requested companies are licensed by the Bank of Greece after strict checks on their reliability and the avoidance of money laundering from any criminal activities. A strict supervisory framework is therefore introduced for the management companies and the transfer of non-performing assets from the Bank of Greece. It is also expressly foreseen that the position of the debtor and the guarantor should be prevented from deteriorating in both material and procedural terms. For major road projects, the improvement of transport hubs, in particular the expansion of the road network, will make a decisive contribution to the development of the Greek economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We need roads and other major projects - like the Thessaloniki metro which has been pouring for years - for society and the economy. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the fertile opposition is for the benefit of the country and the Greeks and we must all contribute to the effort to finally get out of the open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr Theocharis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to raise two issues so I wouldn't take much time. The first is the issues of clawback, which the Deputy Minister, Mr Paulakis, said. It's a big deal, it's a big deal, and the lies she's talking about. He told us that 484 million was the limit in hospitals and goes to 510 million. He forgets, however, that of the 240 million EEA spending, which is on innovative medicines, which are for special hospitals, such as the "Oonesio", which is for small hospitals without drugs, the limit goes to 60 million. This means that thousands of our fellow citizens with problems, who need these innovative medicines, will face a chaos in their chemo, because most of them are these drugs. So this bill creates problems in social policy, as we have already shown it, so that it can transfer resources from social policy to the interests of the ministers. We estimate that 97 million are wage differences only from the promotion of employees who are in the offices of Ministers and State Secretarys, friends, that is, the posters and relatives of SYRIZA. Considering that they get more than twenty years of growth, considering that we only get 106 million from the heating allowance or the clawback that we have seen from the 240 million to 60 million, you understand what a disaster we are talking about. The second point I want to raise is this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u460	Please be quiet, ladies and gentlemen, for the speaker to be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u461	I can't even hear myself, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u462	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u463	Mr Juliarakis makes a practical suggestion - and the HR - about the public wages. We have the point of the report by the Special Scientific Committee that there is an inappropriate differentiation between the scientific staff of the HR - all worthy people, because I have worked with them and some are still there - and the independent administrative authorities. In particular, it states: ‘It is noted that it is not apparent or clearly understood in the explanatory memorandum accompanying the draft bill, the reason for the different, more unfavourable treatment of the specific scientific staff of the independent administrative authorities, ADD, the Securities Committee and the Audit Committee, vis-à-vis the specific scientific staff of the EESC, whose general remuneration, in accordance with Article 22(4), is determined by a decision of the Minister for Finance’. He's talking about the principle of equality. We have a risk here - and they will - to win - and they will probably win - and pay and the Greek people will pay. Mr. Juliarakis, you need to correct the justification. The SAC, which judged the pensions as unconstitutional, relied on the fact that the pension cuts were unnecessarily unreasonable. The Greek people will therefore come, in addition to the obvious costs, which the Committee of the General Accounting Committee of the State 170 million at first...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u464	Mr. Theochari, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u465	I shall conclude, Mr President. He'll pay those secret costs too. Please, do these changes as long as it is time that the Greek people did not pay more than they should.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u466	The Minister has the floor for a short speech, Mr Juliarakis, followed by the President, Mr Gennimatas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u467	I would therefore like to answer three questions. Two put Mr. Loverdos and one Mr. Theocharis. On the issue of air traffic controllers, it is an issue that we will obviously see. First of all, we will see if it has budgetary costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u468	He doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u469	He doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u470	What I heard here in the Chamber is that it doesn't. If he does not, the problem can be solved easily. It is resolved next week or with the next bill. It is therefore a question that will be resolved on condition - I repeat - that it does not have a financial burden. The second point raised by Mr Lovers is the question of border regions. I want to make a clarification here. This draft law retains the allowance for border areas as it stands. It doesn't change. I repeat it doesn't change it. It is, however, committed to seeing the whole question of this allowance again on a new basis, not on the basis of the definition of what is a border region but on the basis of the definition of accessibility, in other words, how easy it is to go to the workplace. We're talking about civil servants. Tough access is also available for areas not defined as border areas. We are talking about mountain villages in Karpenisi, Parnassos, and so on. This, of course, needs a little preparation. The project will be carried out by the Ministry of Administrative Reform, will enter into discussion and will be legislated by 31 March 2015. That's exactly what the legislative improvement has been submitted. Let me now refer for a few minutes to the subject raised by Mr Theocharis, with regard to the exclusion of the Economic Expert Council. It is very easy to defend - above all in this - why the five-member Council of Economic Experts representing the country abroad should be excluded, in the European institutions, but I am sure that other independent authorities will have their own arguments. I would therefore like to say, instead of being in the position of defending an all-worthy, pivotal institution of the Hellenic Republic and of the Ministry of Finance, that the conventions of the members of the Economic Analysis Unit of the Board of Economic Experts are three years old. Our intention is not to renew themselves, but after the end of the three-year period for younger generations, that is to say, the ones that will go from now on into the board, public administration, so that a generation of highly qualified economists will be created in a decade that will upgrade public administration. In this context there is the exception. I would also like to add that the members of the Economic Experts Council, which do not belong to the Public Administration, are and will remain unpaid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Gennamas has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to four points. First, "Those who will guard the country through the banks will force Greeks to work as idols". Secondly, "They will be working ten and twelve hours for 300 euros a month". Thirdly, 'Group redundancies will follow'. Fourthly, the Greek economy will be bought together with the banks. Two years have passed since those words have been heard, but words are left. These words belong to the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras. It was December 2013. It was the era of so-called resistance. Then we were all germans. If, of course, you had a different attitude then, Greek women and Greeks would not live today in fear, anxiety, frustration, despair, anxiety for the future of their children. It was then that SYRIZA through Mr. Stathakis called for the sale of loans by the banks and their purchase by the distress funds, what you then called "coops". It seems, of course, that the crows became lambs and the commitments of the SYRIZA - ANEL once again remained words of air, I fell feathers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second act in the drama of the Greek economy. The first one was played a few days ago, when the funds with just 5 billion purchased some 350 billion bank property. In February the third act of drama will come, when the government will allow funds to buy housing and consumer loans, that is to say, threaten by auctioning small and medium-sized Greek households who cannot serve their loans because of the crisis. What are you gonna say then? Are you going to say again that you proceeded to this arrangement with soul pain? Some people are talking about the need to restructure banks from problem loans. But why did the explosive increase in outstanding debts to the banks occur? How did we, according to the Bank of Greece's figures, get about 70% of the regulated loans again problematic, four out of ten business loans are not served and 36% of housing is not repaid? The answer is known. If you have a patient memory, we would be happy to remind you: why the economy was plunged with the experiments of your first government. Because with your tactical energies we have reached the leak of more than 40 billion deposits from the banks and the capital controls. So you proceeded with a recapitalisation that you did not need before, but was imposed on you under the worst possible conditions, in order to save the deposits of Greek citizens. Because you caused asphyxiation to the Greek economy. You have led to a new recession, new deficits and an increase in unemployment. Because, according to GATT, every day they put an eighty-nine small and very small businesses, while their debts reach 82 billion euros and the increases to 120 billion euros. Subsequently, with one provision you continue to relinquish the Greek economy, giving businesses loans to Distress funds. This concerns businesses in very critical sectors, tourism, shipping and retail trade. Then they will also apply to employment, both to working time and wages, all of what you said two years ago, Mr Tsipras. I'm afraid you're right. But you are the ones who are responsible for all this. Ladies and gentlemen, all this could not have happened. The tradition of speculative funds was not a prefecture that each government was obliged to adopt. The red lines of Mr. Tsipras became red carpets for the eagles. Now what are you asking us? To become accomplices? Should we vote for what you have spelled out or forgive you forgiveness for all these unacceptable logics that led the country to this point? The answer is clear, it is a great 'no' from us, from PASOK, from the Democratic Partnership. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I would also like to make an important point. Would you like or do you not want a dialogue on insurance, which you have even called for in a meeting of political leaders? If you really wish, the space is here in the Greek Parliament, in front of all the Greek people, not behind closed doors, with proposals, not tricks and steadfast situations in the sense of seeing and doing. Mr Tsipras has asked us in the President-in-Office for a wish that we should not cut pensions. And then I said to him 'the wishes, Mr Tsipras, are not enough'. We, instead of wishing him, have given a very important cause for the negotiations with our unequivocal refusal to accept any cut in major pensions. Take care of it, Mr. Tsipras. One more thing. We read that the debate on the new Fund for Deprivation is taking place. We therefore propose to include the arrangement that will provide that a significant part of the revenue from the privatizations will be made available to enhance the sustainability of the insurance system and the funds, precisely in the logic of the law that we have voted on on the revenues from the exploitation of hydrocarbons and the country's mineral wealth. And I would like to point out that at last the government signed the privatisation agreement for regional airports, which includes investments in their development and modernisation. It is obvious that your signature is the best answer to what you have said the previous period of allegedly plundering and scandaling.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u473	You signed this, Mrs. Gennamas!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u474	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u475	But consider how much this ten-month delay has cost the country, as far as the investment climate and the prospects of the Greek economy are concerned. Don't whining! It takes courage, responsibility and honesty at last for the governance of this country, that is to say, what you have proved to date that you do not have! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Madam President. The Foreign Minister, Mr Juliarakis, has the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u477	Ladies and gentlemen, it was not by mistake that the legislative improvement I used as an example of earlier, namely the allowance for school advisors, was not included in the list of legislative improvements. Well, I'm filing it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Minister. I would ask that the honourable Members be distributed. Mr Brutsi has the floor for three minutes. Then Mr. Theodorakis will speak and we will close with Mr. Stathakis. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u479	Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I would ask you to consider - because they separate us only a few moments from the bill - what you said before January 2015, what you said after January 2015 and what you said even after September 2015 in the programming statements. And I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because unfortunately we have a unique European negative original: we are governed by a left which is no place else in Europe, by a government and a party, SYRIZA, who are divorced with the truth. As you can see, I am not talking about ANELs, because you can be sure that ANELs - even if some of you believe otherwise or do not vote for anything - will be the last to be held near you, integrated into SYRIZA as long as the Ministry of National Defence exists. And because at some point we have to respond to the main independent Greeks, as they are said, I consider it challenged to talk about New Democracy, when their Chief is a member of the New Democracy, twenty-two years of parliamentarians and many, many years of Minister and showing it today with the finger! This is to the knowledge and awareness of a party formed on the basis of the protest, and today it has become the collar of the Left, SYRIZA. And I now go to the extension of what I said just now, Mr President, to the two ministers, Mr Phillips and Mr Juliarakis. I'm surprised. Oh, so courageous? Mr. Juliarakis, I'm going to tell you about your attempt to justify unjustified excuses. I, too, said in my speech that I do not use expressions, such as those you were saying before about 'brows', 'buckles', etc. But, did you say a moment ago at the Step of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u480	Who's doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u481	No, you didn't say that. I'm saying. You know, we in the New Democracy have a political culture far superior to yours, and personally and generally. Just before the Step of the House, you said, Mr. Juliarakis, that it is so strong, so suffocating and so transparent the framework for these funds that are not profitable. You said it in your speech! Who are you telling? Did you say so because SYRIZA MPs will go to Christmas in the provinces and will not be able to meet the people to whom other things were saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u482	Take a look at my speech!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u483	I heard it, Mr. Juliarakis, and that is what I noted! I also think it is tragic for Mr Philadelphia to try today in his speech - which was an ideological, political speech, not on the substance of the bill - to ideologicalize - listen - the speculative funds which you have come to vote on with a context that is unclear, opaque, without a clear environment, an environment in which we have criticised our rapporteur and our speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u484	So many millions...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u485	Three birds sitting!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u486	God illuminate you, because above all - you may not believe - it is the good of Greece, the good of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u487	Mr Theodorakis has the floor, President of the River. Then, for a minute, Mr Constantinople will take the floor because he wants to clarify something. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u488	I won't need twelve minutes, I'll be much shorter, as usual. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government wanted, at first, ladies and gentlemen, to look like the alchemics of the Middle Ages, the ones who turned each metal into gold. You are going to turn the country, Europe and everything else you've ever touched into a left paradise. You don't need a job, you don't need a program, you don't have to try. Good heart and good mood! But with slogans, life doesn't change, reality doesn't win. And the experiment didn't work. Now, you have changed tactics, you are baptizing gold the solutions and suggestions that come from the past, or what the previous ones have chosen, in red loans, in the party state, in public works. Weaned by Mr. Spirtzi's tears are the contracts you sign. "I signed a lot of pain," the Minister says. And I imagine he'll say in a few months, in a few weeks, I guess, Mr. Dritsas will be invited to sign for the ports. And, of course, sign without correcting a word. It is simply, 'you've played late'. "Experience is a good school, but has expensive tuition," a poet has said, and in our case these tuition fees are paid by Greek society. You are giving alchemy increases to your children in public. You are beating your party executives who work at the offices of the Ministers and you are giving payrolls simple to your advisers. And the directors of the political offices of the ministers go straight to the upper step. And this whole system doesn't have a single vote of assessment and merit. How much is this gonna cost? The Minister and the Government state that the new payroll does not cost. But the General Accounting Office of the State says that we are talking about a billion in four years, that is, one billion more in the government. We must therefore say clearly to the unemployed - you say so, the SYRIZA and ANEL Members - that there is money for the public, but there is no money for the unemployed. There's money for the public, but there's no room for tax relief, which's always coming in. I would like to address the "national ruler of the Left", as Mr Tsipras called one of his right-wing ministers, and to tell him that your great concern for your own children is as old as the problems of the country, as well as for the square of Klathmonos. For us - and to have it clear - the motto, gentlemen of the government, is different 'not an extra euro in the public sector unless we tackle unemployment and if we do not reduce taxes'. The losers of the memorials are indeed many. But a modern, progressive society has its priorities. And the priority today is the unemployed and the damaged private sector and not the public sector. The red loans, ladies and gentlemen, doubled in the days and months you said there's no reason for someone to pay their instalments, because SYRIZA will come and there will be sedition for everyone. That's how the time bomb grew and reached 107 billion red loans. What are you doing today? You give them without rules, without limitations, without debate to foreign small and large companies. Our proposal - and we have done so from time to time - is to have a bad bank, which will make a single management based on decisions by the Greek state of red loans. The social partners have also made concrete proposals. But now you, Members of Parliament, have downloaded the pencils and you are simply translating what they give you, what they ask you to do. We learned from reports that the Central Committee of SYRIZA described the Potami populist movement. Mercy, ladies! Leave us a title, too. Monday, Wednesday and Friday you are populists. Tuesday, Thursday left-wing rebels and Sundays you are rationalist Europeans, who blame your opponents - and here is the Potami - for populism. Mercy! In the economy, populism has led you to failure. In immigration, failure leads to populism. Athens is going back to 2011. The mayors are in despair. Areas of Athens are in despair. And you're running behind developments, gentlemen of the government, because you didn't have the chance to make a plan, and why didn't you hear when we were talking to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that today there will be a hundred and fifty three to vote on a rough law, a law which 35% are the obligations for which we are committed, and the other 65% are ruffles - ballasts in existing or non-existent problems. You do the same in the cohabitation agreement. Fourteen articles are for the cohabitation pact and forty-nine are the other arrangements you bring. In other words, you are shielding human rights to make your rugs in prisons and to control justice. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece needs a lot more than a small deal, trade and old-fashioned arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u489	We jeweler surnames didn't say! Keep it up and you'll see!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u490	Please be quiet, Mr. Theonas!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u491	I will repeat this, so that everyone can hear it, even the failed public service directors who are now MPs. [[Applause from the river wing]] Greece, therefore, needs more than a lot of recesses, transactions, old-fashioned arrangements, not micro-loss and profits by offsetting, but a plan and bold decisions - what you do not have and what you cannot see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. Mr Juliarakis has the floor to explain something for one minute and Mr Stathakis and Mr Venizelos will follow. Mr Stathakis will speak and he will refer to your amendment, and you will then put the matter of the vote or not. Here you go, Mr. Juliaraki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u493	Thank you. Mr Theodorakis mentioned - if I have understood correctly - the additional expenditure resulting from the new salary for the general government budget. He therefore mentioned a number of EUR 1 billion extra expenditure for the four years. I would ask you to submit the figures you have - because you have invoked the General Accounting Office - because I am head of the General Accounting Office and I have in front of me the exact figures that the General Accounting Office has given me. The General Accounting Office therefore provides that in 2016 the savings of funds with the new salary are EUR 56 million, in 2017 it is EUR 339 million - I am referring to sizes of the General Accounting Office - in 2018 is EUR 202 million, in 2019 it is EUR 85 million savings. For the four years 2016-2019, saving is the one I mentioned from the Step of the House of Parliament of EUR 682 million. My question is whether the institutions themselves consider this reform to be fiscally neutral and compatible with the medium-term fiscal adjustment programme. Your objection?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u494	Other than others!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u495	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u496	The right-wing government never dared to do such a thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u497	Mrs. Bakoyannis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u498	I cannot, Mr President, be confused!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u499	Give the heating allowance then!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u500	Mrs. Vulge, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u501	You've been in lately, Minister, now say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u502	That sounds good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u503	The heating allowance to pay after saving money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u504	You're welcome. Mr Balaura and tomorrow you're busy, since you're in fast track procedures. Mr. Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u505	Ladies and gentlemen, for the past two months, the government has been firm in implementing a strategy which has been formulated directly openly to the Greek Parliament and to the Greek people and which has reminded you of the fact that it has included a key point: the conclusion of the negotiations of the forty-eight prerequisites, the recapitalisation of the banks and the new agreement of the parties to the House. And in order not to think and finally answer Potami, which considers that we are wrongly going and discussing 'because at the end we are signing up to some papers that bring us', I should like to remind you at least ten points on which we consider that the result of these debates is very positive, unless there is any differentiation. For the economy of time, I'm going to stand in a few keys: The protection of first home in the previous trading cycle, which ensured 25% of full-time government support for households, and the remaining 35% on very positive terms of protection, did not understand why this was not a success in the negotiation. I'll stand by the settings. The fact that a solution was found much better than that in the original agreement on pharmacy and pharmacists is not a given one? To stand on the last, the current negotiation, on four points. First of all, to IPTO: The fact that with regard to the privatisation dilemma or an alternative with 51% ownership of the public is not a success of the negotiation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u507	Secondly, the regulation on the new fund for a different framework positive in the context of negotiation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u508	Please! The questions are rhetoric of the Minister, as you do. Don't rush to answer. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u509	Thirdly, the single wage we are debating today ensures - unlike those who have said many different things - two things, firstly, that there are no wage reductions, a very important statute and, secondly, that inequality in wages within the public sector is not extended to three - four categories, which would include many penal measures for the categories of certain officials. Fourth and fundamental...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u510	Five minutes ago, the deputy said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u511	Please, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u512	Are you going to drive us crazy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u513	Please very much, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u514	Decide what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u515	I'll get to that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u516	Please, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u517	Tell us what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u518	Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u519	By the end of the day, you will hear them. The fourth is the one we are discussing on red loans. I repeat: What we are debating today is part of a more comprehensive strategy on red loans, which has started since the previous period. First of all, I would remind you of the establishment of new consumer and borrower protection institutions, the establishment of an independent authority to assess household creditworthiness, the Code of Conduct for Banks that will restructure the loans, based on the minimum income of a thousand euros, the thirty information centres that will be opened throughout the country, the procedure whereby arrangements and insurance are provided for in implementing a series of rules on housing loans. Secondly, the extension of the pre-existing law, the Treasury - here is Mr. Dendias - which will be done with some changes and a tool for restructuring business loans and the bill, which we are bringing today. Let me remind you what the bill does. This bill is very clear, very clear, specific and does not allow for misinterpretations. Firstly, it forms the regulatory framework for the establishment and operation of these enterprises. I call on the New Democracy, which has become a very anti-European confession, to study the entire institutional framework for this type of market in all European countries and to bring us a country that has stricter rules than those we are introducing today. So the piece of establishment - operation - supervision and so on. It is the most powerful version that currently exists in the European area. Secondly, the present system is fully and explicitly guaranteed. That is why I do not accept Mr Venizelos' proposal, because Article 3(8) in the case of the sale and transfer of claims under this law, as well as in the case of the award of management, does not render the debtor and the guarantor's effective and procedural position worsen. It is expressly formulated that any management, transfer in its general form, shall be prohibited from creating any deterioration in the procedural or financial or material position of the borrower and the guarantor. So in this field it is absolutely shielded by the present system. Thirdly, all legislation is called for by this type of company and is without any special treatment. In other words, what applies to all the banks concerned, as is the case with any other transfers, taxes, institutions, to protect the terms and rules, is also applicable to this sector. There is no special treatment - I stress it - precisely because in many European countries the establishment of these markets - I am referring to Ireland, Spain and so on. - operates under special tax exemption rules and many others. It is expressly stated here that the entire tax system remains the same. Thirdly, to clarify what this market is. This draft law expressly states that we are currently talking about creating a market that is strictly for large business loans. First home housing, consumer and small and medium-sized enterprises are excluded by European definition, i.e. companies with a turnover of less than EUR 50 000 000, and 50 employees. It is expressly formulated in the law what is currently being "liberated" within this strict regulatory framework. So all the debate that has been heard about future liberalisation of housing, consumer, small and medium-sized enterprises, and even parcels of land, I have heard that they will be liberated and put into these markets, loans from farmers and dozens of other things, are out of reality, do not apply. In February, when we regulate the way in which the process is done and protection in all these markets, we are here to discuss it again. I'd like to close by saying straight and with...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u520	Please be quiet. We'll be done in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u521	Two days we challenge the New Democracy to give us a fundamental thought and idea of how the problem of red loans can be tackled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u522	You rule now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u523	I repeat, for two days I would ask the New Democracy to give us a thought of any form of dealing with the management of red loans. So far we have heard rhetorically that there was a precedent - it was the Law Trees - and that nothing more was needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u524	Now it's your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u525	We hear that we open the market to crows, while the New Democracy does not want to buy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u526	He doesn't want crows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u527	I have called on Mr Hatzidakis to tell me whether New Democracy has abandoned its traditional liberalism and whether it has been shifted to other types of solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u528	Mrs. Vulture! But you're usually quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u529	But he's causing us. Let's not say all that! Let's close it. The Minister's here to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u530	Is that possible? Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u531	Thirdly, I have called for any thoughts on these 90 billion. He repeated three things: First, statements of previous years, to show how untrue SYRIZA is. We testified that SYRIZA was elected in the light of the agreement, and that is what we are implementing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u532	So what do you care?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u533	Second, we asked for there to be...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u534	The people agree with SYRIZA. You have the people with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u535	Mrs. Vulture! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u536	We have called for a fundamental dialogue, not for the sake of understanding, necessarily, but for the possibility of restoring a debate that will have a clear reference to the reality and to the European given fact, which seems to have been the last time that the New Democracy has abandoned it, looking more and more at the inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Theocharis wants to say something to Mr. Juliarakis for half a minute about something you're fighting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u538	The Minister has asked us to give the evidence and, I think, in the interests of completeness we will have to respond. Mr. Minister, I don't know where he's getting the evidence from. I will read from the General Accountancy Report just and tell you. ‘On the government budget additional expenditure from the possibility of certifying individual project expenditure to sworn accountants registered in the ELTE register unspecified.’ Positive cost. ‘Annual expenditure for the years 2016-2019: 107 million from the reclassification to the new wage scales, Article 9. Annual expenditure amounting to EUR 143 million from 2018 onwards from the salary maturation of staff. Annual expenditure of 25 million from the increase in liability allowances to the heads of the organic units. Annual expenditure ranging from EUR 15 to EUR 46 million as a result of the introduction of the promoted salary evolution of staff on account of an evaluation.’ All of this makes us 178 million plus 143 million a year from 2018 onwards. ‘Possible cost of linking pay to the description of tasks, the amount of which cannot be determined, depending on actual facts. Cost savings from the limitation of border areas’. He took that back, so he's erased from the General Accounting report. There's no savings. Also, ‘yearly cost savings of EUR 4.5 million from the abolition of the remuneration of the collective bodies’. Therefore, 174 million for four years equal to 696 million, plus 143 million for two years, in 2018-2019, is making us totalling 982 million, plus two undetermined costs of the General Accounting Office. We therefore have more than one billion costs for these four years. And the only savings we see, of course, are from the EEA's clawback, which proves that we get money from the social state and give it indiscriminately to good and bad civil servants. That's what we've been talking about for so many days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u539	Mr. Juliarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u540	Mr Theocharis referred to the expenditure provided for in the new wage bill. Obviously the new salary provides for costs. How else will the civil servants be paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u541	The increase was mentioned!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u542	However, the replacement of the new payroll from the old payroll also implies savings. And now I am referring to them: for 2016 - expenditure has been mentioned by Mr Theocharis - we have saved from the lack of the previous salary of EUR 187 million. For 2017 we have a saving of 570 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u543	You don't understand! Let go of it. Don't expose yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u544	Please stop! Here we are, they're written, they're specified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u545	There's savings and you'll hear it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u546	There are limits!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u547	For 2018 - listen to why it is a large number - we have saved 735 million and in 2019 even longer, save 868 million. Of these, 750 million is the estimated cost for incentives to achieve targets and budgetary objectives, as foreseen in the previous salary. I would also like to reply here: what does'saving' mean? We don't put them, Mrs. Vulge, in our pocket. It is the money we spend on health, welfare and the fight against unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u548	Give me the heating allowance. That's what I said!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u549	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u550	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u551	Nobody has the floor. Mr. Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u552	I am rapporteur, Mr President, and I have not used my dentistry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u553	I would also like to speak for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u554	Mr. Theochari, sit down! Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u555	I need a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u556	Please! You will not speak again, Mr. Theochari. You've spoken four times!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u557	Mr President, will the Minister answer me? He gave new evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u558	He's answered. It's not new evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u559	The figures mentioned by Mr Theocharis are absolutely correct. And they are mentioned both in the General Accounting Report, which we all have here, and in Mr Tsakalotou's special report, with his signature. There are the figures from Mr Theocharis. What Mr. Juliarakis said is only in his imagination. And I am truly surprised that, although it has been found in the parliaments of the European Union and with the education that Mr Juliarakis has, he has come to mislead the Greek Parliament. There is a charge for your party customers, when pensions are cut, when VAT is increased, while farmers' taxes are increased. That's clear and you really need to apologize!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u560	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u561	There's no speaker circle! Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u562	For two days, the Chamber is being mocked. Let Mr. Juliarakis present the painting!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u563	He said "fake" to Mr. Juliarakis, Mr. Hatzidakis, and he will speak. [[Noise - protests from the wings of the River and the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Stop, Mr. Theochari, and sit down! Mr. Juliarakis has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u564	He has to testify!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u565	He'll testify. Do you have any doubts that the Minister of Finance is talking about billions and will not testify? For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u566	I would like the floor to have a real dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u567	No, Mr. Theochari. You're very welcome. Your party chief has spoken. I didn't mean to tell you. You spoke three times ago and two later. You need to know from the process that you have no right to do this. Do you understand that? Because when the party leaders talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u568	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u569	Now what are you doing? I don't understand. You want to cover for me? Do you want to make an episode in the eight-inch bulletins? I'm telling you straight away.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u570	What social struggle have you done when you fired people?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u571	Mr. Femmelle, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u572	He gave new evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u573	Mr. Theochari, sit down right now! You don't have the floor or you won't have it afterwards. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u574	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u575	No, please. The bulletins started with another controversy. Mr. Juliarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u576	I'm in favour of the Minister answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u577	Mr. Theochari, please very much. Don't be alarmed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u578	For thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u579	You're gonna make me call you back to class. Understand? Don't be a noisemaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u580	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u581	Please don't ask me. Sit down! Mr. Juliarakis, you have the floor. He's the last one to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u582	Don't sneeze me! Thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u583	You don't have 30 seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u584	Let me speak for thirty seconds and the Minister answer the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u585	You don't have 30 seconds. I mentioned at least two reasons why you cannot speak and you must respect it so that I do not withdraw you to class. Mr. Juliarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u586	He has given new evidence, and they must be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u587	Make statements then, if you want, on the perimeter, not in here! Repeat, the bulletins are on. Come on, Mr. Juliaraki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u588	It's wrong what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u589	I'm so sorry, because Mr. Hatzidakis lost his temper. Mr Hatzidakis, it really is a European Parliament room and we should be more polite. I won't follow the same path. I'll just say the following. The costs - listen to what Mr Theocharis said - are the numbers we agree with. They are costs incurred by the new wage bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u590	Put the board down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u591	The abolition of the previous wage, however, - listen to this - involves savings. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] To get it backwards, it involves expenditure, budgeted in the medium-term programme, which will not be implemented. It is precisely these savings that finance our own social expenditure, our own social budget. I'm filing him for the record.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u592	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u593	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u594	Therefore, first, the table was submitted for the Minutes. Secondly, for the third time I have heard Mr Juliarakis - and I had understood that from the beginning, let me say that we are talking about expenditure and about saving from the replacement of the two payrolls. They're perfectly clear. So there is agreement in the figures on expenditure. On the issue of savings, there will also be an agreement, after the document on the Minutes has been lodged. Thank you for clarifying the subject. I would just like to say that for the amendment tabled by the President, Mr Venizelos, Mr Stathakis, on the substance of this amendment was put on the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u595	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u596	You won't talk again. The process is over. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 515a]] [[Let the page in. 517a]] [[To enter page 518a]] I'm clarifying... [[Noise - protests]] You've learned bad lessons from us, from a few moments of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u597	Mr President, can you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u598	No, Mr. Paphie, no one else will talk. I would like to make it clear that the amendment tabled by Mr Venizelos, Mr Stathakis, referred to the substance of the matter, assuming that the amendment referred to in substance in what article is included for the effective safeguarding, safeguarding, prophylaxis of borrowers. I therefore think that this issue has been clarified. Mr Venizelos has asked for the floor, but I shall give the floor for a minute to Mr Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u599	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me inform you that it's 20.10 and now the news reports are being displayed. So many of you don't see each other. Every time this hawa - to say it like this - we have. When we get to the end, the phony fight begins. Secondly, stop "playing the priest" both, both of them and of them. What really happens now? You are struggling for who will cut more than the wages of civil servants, who have now become miserable. And the fight starts if one is cut or the other one is cut. So this story should be stopped and voted on the basis of the proposals that have been made. And I'm telling you again that this is not a good television time, because that's why it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u600	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u601	Mr President, I am of course beginning with the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u602	For the amendment, in relation to its vote. Is that right? Because the procedure is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u603	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, just a minute. I would like to explain why Mr Stathakis' answer does not cover me and I insist that the amendment be put to the vote. I am not covered by Mr Stathakis' answer, because Mr Stathakis confessed in a way that surprised me - because it is truly cynical - that the bill does not constitute a regulation of the red loans for borrowers, debtors, that there is no regulation on debtors. This is a regulation on creditors relating to banks and management companies or transfer companies. And precisely because this is a heterogeneous regulation on the part of creditors, I believe that the text of the amendment to the law should be added to those who have been subject to the rules of the law called 'Katelis', but it is a PASOK law, by n. 3869/2010, as applicable, to maintain the protection status, irrespective of changes in the person of the creditor or administrator and regardless of changes in the supervisory regime of banks and management or transfer companies. I say this because red loans, unhelpful loans, have affected the recapitalisation. The entire secret of red loans is the forecasts, supervisory funds held by banks and on the basis of which the main and the opposite scenario of the recapitalisation was organised. This is therefore not covered by the general rule that the debtor's substantive and procedural position is not altered. These are quite different things. I would like to say on the point of order that because this amendment has been tabled in time, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 73 to 75 of the Constitution, and because it does not depend on the government's will, I would ask that it be put to the vote as well. Now, what is the importance of the General Accounting Reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u604	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u605	The amendment, Mr President. It could, says the Constitution in Article 75(2), at the beginning of the meeting, be said that the Minister responsible for the amendment also wants to know. She didn't ask for it. So he doesn't need to. The vote will therefore be taken on the proposed amendment. The bill, however, has a report from the General Accounting Office, for it is provided for by the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament, and it also has a special report on the budget signed by Mr Tsakalotos. Mr. Juliarakis made the report of the General Accounting Office a few minutes ago, and the special report of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u606	Well, you're done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u607	So the House has voted...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u608	You're done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u609	...but the civil servants realized they're being mocked by a left-hand man...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u610	Mr. Venizelo, thank you very much. Mr Venizelos had made the same request on 19 November, namely that an MEP's amendment - although it is not accepted by the Minister on condition that he has now analysed the General Accounting Office of the State - should be put to the vote. I will give an answer as President to the Conference of Presidents so that a final decision can be made on this. We don't agree. Article 82 of the Constitution stipulates that the government determines and directs the general policy of the country, in accordance with the definitions of the Constitution and the laws. In other provisions, of course, the Constitution provides for the possibility of a legislative initiative by Parliament and by Members, by tabling proposals of laws and amendments. However, these forecasts cannot lead to overturning the general rule of responsibility of the Government with regard to the regulation of social matters. In this light, a permanent parliamentary practice on voting for the parliamentary amendments has been established, which are only voted on if they are accepted by the relevant Minister. Otherwise, we would end up with the Minister's being called upon to apply any provisions which may conflict with or are incompatible with his own government policy, for which he is politically responsible and accountable to the Greek people. Without prejudice to the fact that there will be a special debate at the Conference of Presidents on this subject, I am not voting on Mr Venizelos' amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u611	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u612	One word, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u613	Excuse me, I told you this last time. If a majority wants to reject an amendment, it rejects it. If the government controls its majority, it rejects the amendments that it does not like. But the position of the Vice-President and the position of the Member is not in theory concluded with the debate. The vote is closed with the vote, even when the opposition is missing. So respect for the constitution is very important. Article 82 concerns executive power. The country's general policy is primarily the country's foreign policy. Article 82...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u614	Please, let us finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u615	Rule 82 does not overturn the fundamental provisions of Article 26 concerning the exercise of legislative powers by the Parliament and the President of the Republic. So, as there is a legislative initiative by the government, there is a legislative initiative by the Members...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u616	And the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u617	... which cannot be castrated by procedural arguments not provided for in the Constitution. Parliament and the Government do not harm the completion of the procedure. What harms Parliament and society is to overthrow the data, the budget, on which we are discussing, five minutes before the vote because others are signed by Mr Tsakalotos and others says. Both of you, in fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u618	Mr. Venizelo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u619	...their social audience, the civil servants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u620	Please do not use time as many times as possible at critical times and on issues all over the matter. You know - you are more experienced than I am - that this must not be done. When we discuss the Rules of Procedure, Part One, this is one of the issues that will be discussed. It is interesting what you have raised. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance 'Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions for the implementation of the Financial and Structural Reform Agreement' is finalised and their vote will be taken separately. A request has been made for a roll-call vote of New Democracy Members on the principle and on Articles 1, 2, 3 and 19 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u621	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Hatzidakis. Here you go. Mr Anastasiades. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Brutsi. Here you go. Mr. Cryazides. Here you go. Mr. Consolas. Here you go. Mr. Stylus. Here you go. Mr. Cavadas. Here you go. Mr. Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Kedicoglou. Here you go. Mr. Stamatis. Here you go. Mr. Bukkoro. Here you go. Mr. Buras. Here you go. Mrs. Keramea. Here. Mr. Javarras. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote of members of the JRC at the beginning of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u622	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Present Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Steerios Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Synchronakis Manolis. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. You're all present anyway. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote of Members of the Democratic Alliance in principle and on Articles 1, 2, 3 and 41 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u623	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Lightning. Here. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Vassiliou. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Harula (Harah). Here. Mr. Koutsoukos John. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Alliance (PASOK - DIMAR). You're present. Thank you. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10) minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u624	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall, forty-four students and students as well as two teachers from the Experimental Gymnasium of Lifelong School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Do you accept, ladies and gentlemen, that the votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure should be brought together in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u625	The House has agreed. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1, 2, 3, 19 and 41 of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions for the implementation of the Financial and Structural Reform Agreement’. Receiving the bill on principle and the articles say “WHEN”. Those who fail to accept the bill on principle and the articles say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Ms Anastasia Gara is called on the list by SYRIZA and Ms. Niki Kerameos from New Democracy. I would like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which state their vote at first and in the articles of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u626	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the Faculty of Lifelong Education of Ioannina (B') School of Lifelong Learning. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u627	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from colleagues in the Bureau, Mr Kalafatis, Mr Martinou, Mr Giulekas, Mr Aygeakis, Mr Papacostas - Ironopoulou, Mr Manatis and Mr Katsiantonis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present, they would vote 'OH'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u628	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, as far as we can count, I propose that we vote on the remaining articles in the bill. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u629	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u630	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u631	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u632	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u633	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u635	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u637	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u638	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u639	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u640	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u641	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u642	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u643	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u644	By a majority. We say 'OH', but we note that we are positive - but we cannot vote on it - on the TCT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u645	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u646	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u647	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u648	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u649	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u650	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u651	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u652	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u653	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u654	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u655	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u656	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u657	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u658	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u659	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u660	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u661	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u662	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u663	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u664	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u665	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u666	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u667	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u668	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u669	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u670	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u671	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u672	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u673	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u674	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u675	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u676	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u677	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u678	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u679	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u680	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u681	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u682	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u683	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u684	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u685	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u686	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u687	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u689	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u690	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u691	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u692	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u693	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u694	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u695	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u696	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u697	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u698	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u699	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u700	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u701	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u702	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u703	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u704	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u705	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u706	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u707	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u708	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u709	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u710	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u711	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u712	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u713	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u714	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u715	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u716	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u717	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u718	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u719	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u720	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u721	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u722	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u723	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u725	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u726	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u727	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u728	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u729	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u730	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u731	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u732	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u733	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u734	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u735	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u736	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u737	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u738	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u739	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u740	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u741	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u742	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u743	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u744	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u745	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u746	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u747	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u748	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u749	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u750	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u751	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u752	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u753	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u754	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u755	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u756	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u757	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u758	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u759	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u760	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u761	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u762	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u763	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u764	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u765	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u766	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u767	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u768	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u770	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u771	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u772	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u773	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u774	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u775	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u776	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u777	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u778	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u779	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u780	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u781	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u782	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u783	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u784	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u785	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u786	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u787	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u788	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u789	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u790	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u791	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u792	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u793	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u794	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u795	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u796	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u797	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u798	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u799	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u800	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u801	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u802	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u803	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u804	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u805	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u806	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u807	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u808	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u809	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u810	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 34 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u811	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u812	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u813	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u814	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u815	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u816	Article 34 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u817	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u818	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u819	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u820	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u821	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u822	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u823	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u824	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u825	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u826	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u827	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u828	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u829	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u830	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u831	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u832	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u833	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u834	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u835	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u836	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u837	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u838	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u839	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u840	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u841	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u842	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u843	Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u844	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u845	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u846	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u847	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Rule 41 has been put in roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u848	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u849	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u850	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u851	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u852	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u853	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u854	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u855	Article 43 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u856	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u858	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u859	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u860	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u861	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u862	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u863	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u864	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u865	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. [[Insert the text of the bill p. 569a]] A total of 291 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'NO', 138 MPs voted. They voted for no one. The Finance Ministry’s bill: ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement’, was accepted in principle by a majority. A total of 291 Members voted on Article 1. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. They voted for no one. Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 2 has adopted a total of 291 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. They voted for no one. Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 291 Members voted on Article 3. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'NO', 138 Members voted. They voted for no one. Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 19 has adopted a total of 291 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'Notice', 138 Members voted. They voted for no one. Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 41 has adopted a total of 291 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'Notice', 138 Members voted. They voted for no one. Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u866	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u867	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u869	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u870	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u871	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u872	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u873	It is therefore accepted that the Court of First Instance should have its seat in the European Court of Justice, acting by a majority of its Members. The draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement’ was therefore accepted by a majority in principle and on the articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u874	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u875	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u876	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u878	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u879	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u880	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions implementing the Budget Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and total, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u881	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u882	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-15-S1-commons.u883	With the consent of this House at 21.15 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow 16 December 2015 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State", as well as discussion and decision, in accordance with Article 62 of the Constitution and Articles 43A and 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, for applications for the waiver of immunity of MPs.
