ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 322/15-12-2015 of the new Republic MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on dealing with the problems of potato producers in Lower Neuroscope Drama due to the existence of harmful fungus on agricultural land. The question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am pleased that you are here on an important issue concerning a particular issue - I would say - a burdensome area not only of Drama Prefecture, but of the whole country and I am talking about the Lower Neuroscope. Minister, as you know, and in the discussions that we have had at the Ministry, as well as in private, potato producers in the region of the Lower Nyroscope have been affected by a harmful fungus, with the result that a large-scale land is cultivated, to a quarantine for the purpose of addressing this issue. In view of the problem that has arisen, the state has had to put this area on a 'carantine', so that the only crop in this rural area is in fact limited, because it is the potato that is the one giving life to this place as a single crop. The income of farmers has been irreparably affected, who are also in despair, with regard to this pending situation. The previous government had taken certain measures concerning compensation. Of course, furthermore, because this problem continues to exist, to you and in particular to your Government - if you would like - in order to address this huge issue of farmers in this region. I would ask you, Minister, to tell us today whether the Ministry, if the government intends to compensate the farmers in this region. You can also tell us whether care has been taken to deal with this harmful disease, no matter how long the conditions exist for the cultivation of these lands, because the only farming area and property of many farmers is in this isolated area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, I understand your anxiety about the region and a product that has been identified with the region. But, as you know, according to the ELGA Agricultural Production Insurance Regulation, as you are now aware, the damage caused to plant production by fungiological insults - in this case I am referring to the fungus that hit the Neuroscope potato - is not covered in insurance. However, the damage to disease-related crops could be included in a state aid programme - the well-known MAGP - where necessary, the damage is due to adverse weather conditions or unforeseen events, which cannot be dealt with because the appropriate means are not available. In these cases, when the seriousness of the damage is large enough and because of what we are saying, unforeseen events which cannot be dealt with, as I have said, there is a need for a particular percentage of the damage, what we call the damage threshold, which must be in place to enable this region to join an aid scheme. This threshold has been set at 30% of the nomadic species of regional unit, in relation to the average yield of the previous three years, based on the country's official statistics. The specific fungus is located in the area of Lower Neuroscope of the regional unit of Drama. The damage rate is much less than 30% of the regional unit. Therefore, from this point of view, we cannot incorporate it into State aid, what I mentioned before, the competence of the PES. We really understand the problem that exists in the region. Indeed, we are discussing and preparing to extend the insurance cover from the point of view of ELGA throughout plant production to cover all damage. But right now, I can't tell you anything. And don't forget, because our country has suffered too many sanctions in cases where its interventions in such matters are not covered and are not approved by the European Union, we do not want to relive such situations. But we'll see what we can do. In my dentistry, I'll say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you will allow me, with all due respect and the friendship we have long been having, to tell you that I have not received an answer. I do not believe that there may be such treatment for our compatriots who are living just by cultivating a product. You say today that there is no possibility of compensation and that the whole region should have more than 30% damage in order to deal with it. We cannot deal with such an individual event, in an area where we should pay the residents to stay, being isolated eight months a year, and coming here today and we somehow refuse to give them a chance of survival. Over the past two years, Minister, the farmers in this region who have been affected have received an elementary compensation, even in order to survive. Today you tell us here that this is impossible. There is the Agricultural and Cattle Fund, from which, Minister, on the basis of this programme, you can'subsidise' these people. One is that. Secondly, as far as you know - and that is why I am aware - Benacio has undertaken such a programme and varieties that can be grown in this region have been found. I would therefore ask that these varieties be cultivated and, at the same time, that farmers in this region be strengthened in order to be able to survive and to keep this world up there. The world there guards 'Third gates'. We cannot send this world back to immigration. It is a place that, in fact, has suffered a great blow, just from this movement outside the country. If anyone goes there, he'll see families with a large number of kids who stay there. And it is paradoxical and strange, while in other areas, which, I would say, are richer, we see families with one or two children - and I stress this - while there is, one would say, a playground. So there should be special care and sensitivity for this region, Minister. And I believe - I will stress it as a complaint too - that if it were another region of the country - Thessaly, Crete - there would be a solution to this issue. I would ask you, with the sensitivity you see, and for the compensation of farmers in this area - another number of specific - but also for the possibility of granting these land to be cultivated, because this possibility exists, with the supervision of Benaki, if you so wish, but these areas must be set aside for cultivation. There is no other way of survival in this area and this should be understood by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you respond to Mr. Cryazides' dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u8	We want to keep the world there, in an area, as I said in my prototype, which has been linked to this particular product. That is why, since we could not, as I told you, cover the loss of income, our moves were to directly address the specific damage caused by this fungus. We've already contacted the Benacio Plant Health Institute. The checks have been carried out and specific zones have been isolated so that the fungus is not extended to other areas. I would like to say to you that we already have a figure of expenditure that exceeds EUR 215,000 and has been entrusted with the work at the Benacio Plant Health Institute. It is a project related to the prevention of the whole area for the expansion of fungi through experimentation. They really can be delimited, i.e. graves, etc. have been built. All the measures for expansion have been taken, but at the same time we also find those bodies of the fungus able to deal with this particular situation. For our part, then, we are waiting for this project to last for three years and it was now to end in 2015. We'll give them a deadline by the first half of 2016, because they haven't finished it, so that you're now...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u9	But you are losing the growing season, Minister. So, let's go for 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u10	What can I tell you? We were assigned to the Benacy Plant Health Institute this job, and they didn't complete it. We understand, but what to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u11	He did a Benacy program, and for his own reasons he's been doing it in a decade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u12	We cannot experiment and give possibilities for cultivation in a place, when the study has not been completed, and when they have not submitted their views, because it is the Benacio Plant Health Institute that will identify the sites through which...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u13	We have the two varieties. Let's put the two varieties in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u14	That's all there is. We expect the relevant DAGs to have a meeting at the beginning of next year so that we can have a concrete proposal. You're sensitive, too, but we need to solve the problem definitively. We cannot, in fact, act in such a way as to do so for an entire region, which is linked to this particular product. However, what I would like to say is that when this process is completed, the Ministry of Rural Development will inform the region of what these varieties can be cultivated. I think we're going into a new season for the area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u15	Will you give the allowance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u16	You have used the phrase'subsidised'. You realize that procedures are not easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. We will now discuss the third with number 314/14-12-2015 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the inclusion of the energy netting in the new Programme for Rural Development (PA) 2014-2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but could we be ahead of each other, why do I have to go? We have a meeting with Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Apostle, would you have a problem with Mr. Stathakis being ahead of us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u20	No, Mr. President. I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u21	Therefore, following an agreement with Mr Apostolos, the fourth question will be discussed under number 312/14-12-2015 of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the completion of the integrated projects in the programme "Support for SMEs active in the tourism sector 2007-2013". Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns small and medium-sized tourism - that is to say, the 'Tourism' theme - which is still pending. I would like to mention that, as far as the NRP 2007-2013 is concerned, three thousand and fifty-five projects are involved. Of these, 4% has been completed, 38% remains inactive and 58% has taken a dose that is majority before March - let me say it roughly - of 2015. This means that after March, i.e. after the capital controls and the negotiation process of the government, valuable time has been lost. So there is a risk that many businesses will not complete the procedures until 31 December. In fact, on your 14th month we asked the question, and two days later you changed the driver. That's true. And we're glad to be able to help you mobilize to operate the state in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. But you know that this is not enough, because it is too short until 31 December to do some procedures by March to complete them. So we suggest something to you, Minister, because it's tourism. For example, you could do a lifting of capital controls for these companies, which have to carry machinery and equipment from abroad. You could find these ways to help almost 50% of small and medium-sized enterprises to complete their work by 31 December. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am sure that we will also find other common places on other issues, not just small and medium-sized enterprises in tourism, but elsewhere. For example, I would like to tell you about the unemployed and the programme the great, EASA, of the seven thousand who went to the private initiative, that while the project has been completed, they have not been paid at this time. Thank you for your tolerance, and I'll continue in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Constantinople, let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u25	Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u26	We do not win the elections two days before the elections, on 23-1-2015, projects in the ESDP. And we are coming to receive an ESDP that has 6.3 billion supercommitments. Over the NRP's money, you committed yourself and you were involved in projects of 6.3 billion. The average program had 40% overcompensation. We don't do that. We have received a chaotic situation with supercommitments, with virtual programs, with promises of things that were not going to happen. With courage, order and logic from last April we made our decisions on what projects will continue in the next ESDP, which will be completed by 31 December and which projects will be answered. So from then on, we've got a clear landscape. Secondly, we have, as you know, received additional money, made 100% of the subsidy, replacing the 50 % national funds with European funds. We took measures from 1 August, despite the capital controls, despite the economic situation, so that the NRP can finance itself. And thirdly, in consultation with the Commission, we took the guide to the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Support Programme, which essentially helps investors, forming an "artificial", but real, framework, whereby the process of verification and certification of the completion of the project is extended until 31-3-2015. Is that practically what it means? It means that companies are continuing intensively to complete their physical object by 31 December, so that the image, and the certification, integration and verification process can be completed by 31 December. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] We have also made it clear that projects are currently being financed at a very fast pace. There are no bureaucratic procedures, they have been simplified. Our own contribution makes it very fast. We recognize and say so in public that once the request for funding is brought to the Commission, the money comes in one day. So we've done all the necessary steps to complete it. In these circumstances, I think that the encouragement must be a unique one. We have created the conditions and we are speeding up. The projects which need to be completed must be completed. At the moment there is no one in the mood to lose any resource. In fact, I validate what we have done this year with the last indicator that the European Union has made, which highlights Greece first in absorbing the resources of the ESRB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u28	Look, Minister. I understand you. Welcome and have a point of order, but it's not true. Firstly, as far as the overcompensation is concerned, you have brought a paper on the resolution that you have done. But I submitted to Mr. Haritsis that the resolution took place in August 2014 and you know how difficult it is to put regional managers and reduce their projects. So this resolution has been done at the 'DG REGIO' - you have it in your office - and it was the first resolution. I would like to tell you that in the Public Investment Programme - I told the House, but you did not answer me - it seems from last year until this year, and while you say that you have found overcompensation, you have raised the programmes by 7 billion 700 million. It's on page 89 of the budget. Please, I want you to see it. So, because you know that the overcompensation thing is easily called, the resolution deposited in "DG REGIO" in 2014 is deposited in your office, with my signature and it seems how difficult it is to put the district managers and reduce the projects. So please see this document. Secondly, I come to the Community's participation, which you are repeating all the time. So let us see what Community participation means. You're a very, very smart man. The NSRF 2007-2013 had 19 billion Community participation and 4.5 billion Public Investment Programme. Our resources. Now you're saying we don't make money. Do you know what that means? You'll have to tell the world! It means that the final figure, which will be absorbed by the country, will be under 19 billion, because, firstly, it has not put national participation, and therefore investment and money will be reduced, and, secondly, at least 1 billion will be lost. But that has no value. I tell you what you're doing, and after our introduction, it's positive. Now let's go see what we're doing at this stage. At this stage I tell you that if you do not help those who have to bring from outside machinery and equipment, we will have to help through the banks. It was very important to change you - you want yourself or with our help - that is not important and we do not want to get you what you have done - but we have to move on with it. For example, Minister, this is the seventh time I have heard about development law. We were here, and we brought you proposals. Yesterday you announced he's coming in early next year. A month ago you told us he'd be in operation in the beginning of the year. I wish it were, because it's hard and not easy to make a development law. I get it! You have made eight statements! And we're telling you to bring it in and invite us to the Ministry to help you, too. We're in a really good mood. We want to support development in the country. I'm telling you, Minister, it's very difficult. But we are prepared even in the next five days to help you. I know that these days at the Ministry of Development are very difficult, as I know you are working very hard, and the political leadership and the officials, because the time is closing and all this will have to be disbursed. We have too many such issues. If, therefore, you and Mr Haritsis can come to our delegation and tell you in detail the problems that exist so that we can improve conditions and enable people to get paid, to be absorbed and to be saved by small and medium-sized enterprises. That is what we want to do, Minister. We don't want anything different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u29	Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer Mr Constantinople's dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u30	Obviously, we are a government of open dialogue and open to any proposals, which I think we have done on several occasions. It is good for the country to have an open and creative dialogue. Since you mentioned the development law, I'll tell you. The development law, adopted yesterday by the KYSYP - its draft - and will now come to Parliament as a bill at the beginning of the year, closed a cycle of dialogue and discussions with about a hundred and twenty players across Greece in the previous two months. It's a difficult process. Obviously we wanted this thorough dialogue to take place with a hundred and twenty professional bodies, chambers, businessmen, exporters and so on. It is therefore a process which is better to delay one month and to complete properly than to have something imperfect. On the ESDP, I want to be absolutely clear. We believe that funding is completely smooth at the moment. I would also remind you that we also have 1 billion of the EIB's loan exclusively for the financing of the ESDP, with which, essentially, any micro-delay exists in the flow of resources comes from there and we cover it tomorrow morning. What does that mean? It means that whatever liquidity problem, bureaucratic or other, it appears to be resolved in this way. That is why I insist that, at the moment, with these measures we have taken, we have fully ensured the completion of the projects. We have shaped the framework and reached agreement, so that by 31 March we can go to the completion of the certification of all expenditure and everything else we need. On small and medium-sized enterprises in tourism - and this is what I am closing down - are the absolute priorities of the new NSRP 2014-2020. I would remind you that there is a very important programme of aid for tourists and small and medium-sized enterprises to modernise them and the qualitative upgrading of their services, where we finance expenditure up to EUR 50% and up to EUR 150,000 per enterprise. I close by saying that we are open to any debate and dialogue. This government wants to work together on all sides in order to produce the best possible work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr Stathakis. I should like to inform you that the first under number 326/15-12-2015 top-level question of the first-round question of the Parliamentary Corinth of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Finance, concerning the compliance of credit institutions and the facilitation of borrowers for their place in the n. 3869/2010, as amended and valid until 31/12/2015, will not be answered due to a workload of the Minister and deleted. The second question under number 321/15-12-2015 of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Athens, New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the implementation of the decision 2194/2014 of the Board of Directors. in order to restore the remuneration of military personnel, it shall not be responded due to the Minister's sickness and shall be deleted. The third, with number 315/14-12/2015, is a top-stage question of the Attica MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister of National Defence, on the creation of a camp of illegal immigrants and hot spots in Leros from the Greek Army, will not be answered due to a visit by the Minister abroad and deleted. The fifth question under number 311/14-12-2015, the first question of the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the operation of a Guarantee Fund for the compensation of players, will not be answered because the Deputy Minister Mr. Kontonis is in Zakynthos and deleted. The sixth question under number 305/14-12/2015, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, Potamios, Isona Fotillas, to the Minister of Health, on the sustainability of the Therapeutic - Pedagogical Centre Needs "Merimna" in Patras, will not be answered due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The seventh question under number 319/15-12-2015 is the first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health concerning the ratification of the Protocol to the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation (WHO). for the control of tobacco, it will not be answered as a result of an impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fourth under number 329/15-12-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the closure of the Centre for Physics and Medical Rehabilitation in Rethymnon due to a total lack of personnel, will not be answered due to the impediment of the Minister. We enter the third with number 314/14-12-2015 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the inclusion of the energy netting in the new Programme for Rural Development (PA) 2014-2020. Here you go, Mr. Maniotis. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will allow me, in contrast to what you are doing today, to reply to the current questions from Members, Mr President, to address the Bureau and to say that it is sad to hear from the fifteen topical questions that we are discussing today, on 10 October, that the relevant Minister is not present. This degrades the national Parliament, degrades the Greek MPs, essentially degrades these citizens who have sent us here. I would ask that, in the context of the Conference of Presidents, you take care of it and ask the Government to attend, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u33	Mr Maniatis, I would like to tell you that the Conference of Presidents has indeed dealt with this issue and has even decided that there should be no 'due minister' phrase in response, but that the Minister is abroad, that is to say, a workload, that there should be a specific statement. Because the debate is taking place before the Greek people on television and it is not nice to hear that the Minister is not coming to answer. The Conference of Presidents has taken a stand. Go on to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Then to thank the Minister, who is here today to answer my question, I would like to say that, Minister, we have tabled a question which I think can indeed give a breath to the rural population of the country. After VAT increases from 13% to 23%, increases in insurance contributions to the OGA, increases in taxation - with which I am sure that, as the competent Minister for Rural Development and Food, you have a problem - we are proposing here that you take the first measure, which in a structural and long-term nature will reduce the cost of production of agricultural products in our country and will make the products of our country more competitive. I would just mention in simple terms, so that we all understand what we are talking about: In October 2014, with Mr. Mr President, there has been a start-up provision and a pan-European one. Quite simply what did we legislate? For each GFCM, the Directorate-General for IMPs, and for each TWG in the country, the Local IMPs Agency, namely, for over three hundred thousand Greek farmers, have enabled each irrigation pump to install a power plant of up to 500 kilowatts, which will exceptionally and as a matter of priority. What does that allow us to do? It allows us all, knowing that irrigation costs exist during the summer months, which farmers need to water, but during the winter and autumn months the photovoltaic will produce electricity, but will not be consumed by farmers, they have the possibility of this production of electricity to inject it into PPC's electricity system and to take it netted at the end of the year. In simple terms, to make this understandable, Mr President, such an installation in a irrigation network may reduce by up to 50% or 60% irrigation costs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Minister, we have been doing a quick study on the Argolida General Agency for Improvements, where Argolida farmers pay from around EUR 900 000 to EUR 1 million every year for electricity. The installation of these units will reduce costs by approximately 400-500 thousand per year. In other words, we will reduce all farmers' electricity costs to half. I must also say to you, because we had discussed it with the commercial banks too, that there was a good willingness from the banks to co-finance them. What we are asking the Minister is under the Rural Development Programme together with all the other infrastructure projects that are to be approved, to include these actions for all the regions of the country, where we have the opportunity to install them. For indeed, Mr Minister, it is the only action that has no problem with the Competition Committee. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It will operate for at least thirty years and will provide Greek farmers with a reduced rate of 50% electricity. And to say the last argument, which I consider to be equally important, if not the most important: saving money will enable Greek farmers to support the existing irrigation networks so that we can have fewer water losses. Because we all know who we are in this Chamber that, when irrigation networks are watered and used, we have water losses, in other words, losses of a great wealthy resource, more than 60%. With our proposal, therefore, we help reduce production costs to the Greek farmer, reduce waste irrigation water, which is so important for Greek production and the Greek natural environment, and, of course, reduce carbon dioxide emissions...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u35	Finish it, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u36	...with the recent agreement made in Paris. Mr President, thank you very much for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, indeed Mr von Wogau. 4296/2014, which you voted on, enables legal persons such as TWGs, GFCFs, to make use of its provisions for the production of electricity. And from 30-10-2015 with a communication from the administrator of the Greek Electricity Distribution Network, applications for inclusion in the energy netting system are allowed, which provides that this process is now open for the average trend. The inclusion of TWGs on favourable terms - increased power limits - is already under way in the scope of this decision. We, in the context of the implementation of the action plan that we have drawn up in the Rural Development and Food Programme, have included, among other things, rationalising the use of energy and water resources in agriculture through modern technology and renewable energy systems, as is the case here. Specifically for the use of electricity and the reduction of its use costs, there is provision for strengthening forms of local partnerships. Because that really can work: with collaborative productive investment - crafts, etc. - and in general, I would say, with farm production clusters. This will be the picture of the specific renewable energy sources. As you know, the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme has already been adopted. Some 4.7 billion will be invaded, while the total investment cost of the programme is about 6 billion. This includes really important projects for land improvements infrastructure relating to the modernisation of irrigation networks, the renovation or replacement of electromechanical equipment. There is a huge problem, as you know, particularly in TWG, GFCF equipment. In general, I would say, we will have projects that start from water savings to electricity generation. So the eligibility criteria - because these are actions, for which we will already start to communicate on 1 January, to be in touch so that we can see what the response will be - is the specific criterion within. We believe that we will support this possibility by financing with the required amount. And we will see how the climate of the demands will be shaped around this process. And you know it and we experience it that some intervention must be made at the TWGs, at the GFCFs to get a better, I would say, organisational presence. Because, if there is no structured basis, such projects cannot really be implemented and respond to their purpose, which is - as you have said, and so do we - that the great problem with the cost of production of the rural area is related to energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd Varis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Maniotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think that this is a very good time for the national Parliament. I am pleased, because it shows that the Greek state has a continuity and especially in matters that can unite us. Indeed, we can unite the forces from all the wings of the House in order to achieve the common goal, which is to improve the standard of life of Greek farmers, reduce the waste of irrigable drinking water and, ultimately, to give Greek primary production a competitiveness that does not have it. I would now like to add the following to your information. In some areas of the country, for example in Crete, where there are not so extensive GFCFs or TWGs, there are other forms of collective operation of farmers, who have the same credibility as GFCFs. We can, in fact, with an interpretative circular to extend the provision that we have passed by law - there is no need for any other legislative intervention, perhaps, but to see it - throughout Greece. I would also like to inform you that at the end of 2014 we had made an informal, but very substantial, communication with the European Investment Bank and we had asked whether these actions - apart from the Rural Development Programme, the well-known new NRP and national resources - could also be financed by other European Union financial schemes. The European Investment Bank - I say that for the Members present - was very positive in giving us further facilities. Therefore, in order to conclude, and because I really think that your answer was very positive, I propose, Minister, that we see in total with all the regional directors and the central agency of your Ministry and with all the financial plans of the European Union a national total effort to reduce the cost of electricity consumption in the agricultural sector and all together to support the competitiveness of Greek agricultural products. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, in this effort we must definitely all help, because, as I have said before, the Greek cost of production is one of the highest in the European Union and one of the factors of this high cost is energy. So, by opening this provision, we call on all legal persons governed by public or private law who, because of social scope, can serve through this procedure. We will make an effort, especially because at regional level all this will be overthrown and the process will be carried out, and there will be an important role for regional government as well. I repeat, however, that we are in a process of preparing - and we will shortly give it a consultation - a legislative initiative in the organisation of the WTO and TECs, so that they too can acquire such an entity in order to meet these challenges, in fact that this regulation brings about. We believe that, through the Rural Development Programme, we will also be given the investment opportunity, because this is a very serious issue, as well as the search for up to the participation of the European Investment Bank. We will see all of this in order to be able to achieve a target number which we and we agree is a reduction in production costs in the rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, exceptionally, I would just like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u44	If the Minister wants, why do we get out of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u45	Just to inform the Minister and colleagues that this regulation has the potential - we have anticipated it - to apply it to public-private organisations, namely collective entities providing social work, a work of social solidarity. So let us start from the agricultural sector and then go to the area of social solidarity. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u46	I think you can discuss them with the Minister on the one hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u47	For this reason, I have used the term ‘legal or public legal persons’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u48	That's right. So there's provision for that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Apostle, you can discuss them in detail outside of the hall. We move to the seventh Question No 309/14-12-2015 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the problems arising from the merger of Police Departments in Achaia. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the announcement made by the Association of Police Officers to put forward the question we are discussing, but the truth is that this matter also concerns the mayors - and rightly so - other bodies. The Minister has found it all this time - and last but not least by visiting the city of Kalavryta - but also by the Secretary-General, who had the opportunity to speak with everyone. Most importantly, however, this debate is taking place in the Greek Parliament today, because it is a great deal of agony, concern and interest to our fellow citizens who feel abandoned in the mountains - and not just in the plain villages, who feel that this good security will be deprived of them in the name of restructuring. I want to think it's gonna be a good reason. I can see from this morning and now that we are discussing that there are many attending this meeting waiting for the Minister to hear that the Central Police Department will not be abolished, that the Arctic Police Department will not be abolished, that the police departments of the city of Patras will not be confused and that the second great city of Egypt will not be restricted. You know, something extremely bad has happened, beyond the credibility of all of us, because such projects in the name of restructuring and reform have also brought Samara - Venizelos - Venizelos, which were then all - not only speeches but also colleagues of the SYRIZA - strongly resisted by protests. Like today, SYRIZA's colleagues in this House also had their own influence and carried the pressure and interest of fellow citizens with their own intervention. Minister, I think it has become clear to you, too, that you are not a politician with a lack of operational experience, that it is not possible to cover areas that are far from police station seventy kilometers. Kalavryta is a seventy kilometers away, with the other two large municipalities occupied. Also, there are areas that have sixty thousand people - Akrata - or areas that have very large populations in summer seasons. Finally, we cannot close our eyes to events that happen every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u51	Please, Mr. Nicolopoulou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President. This morning, I was taken from the mountainous region of Cliteria by some old lady and said to me: "I want the Minister to hear, to know that more than my pension, I care about my safety." Unfortunately, there's a lot of cases and you know them. It may happen all over Greece, but I am talking about these regions right now. Yesterday - and I am not just talking now about Clitomy or Akrata or Lower Ahaya - at the University Hospital, Mr President - as a professor of your medicine I say it - a group of young people were beaten up, literally broke the legs of the University Hospital guard. There was a patrol car that he couldn't, he says, as a result of asylum to appear in the campus. And the other thing, with the contractual numbers, had to go to St. Stephanos of Patras' prisons - in the industrial area, far from the city - because there a prisoner had fallen out of bed and had broken his sides. At the same time, three more criminal attempts were made in the city. What can we do? Police men and women without inside - and you know it very well - make fundraisers to support vehicles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Comrade, please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u54	I would like to believe that today you will respond positively, as I think you have done on your last visit to Kalavrita.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u55	Mr Nicolopoulos' question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Reconstruction, Mr Toskas. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Nicolopoulos, for the question. It is true that there have been accumulated problems since decades now. That is why we have to deal with this situation by not maintaining distorting structures. Because, you know, over the past five years, around ten thousand police posts have been lost either by leaving or by abolishing organic positions. In other words, nearly one fifth of the policemen who throughout Greece are about fifty-three thousand. Also, after three years, the invaders of the 2012-2013 exams, - five hundred police officers - entered the police schools this year. We have about a thousand two hundred structures across the country, police departments, addresses, addresses. This, as you can see, creates a huge problem. Many structures have been created, without them being appropriately confiscated. We have police stations with five to eight police officers, which means, as you understand, five in view, a commander, one in I.D., no one in police. This situation, i.e. the many police departments and various structures without responding to police policing, forced us to proceed with the reorganisation process in consultation. You know that on November 25th, the Ministry's Secretary General of Public Order was in Patras. I think you weren't there, but there were other colleagues and local bodies and policemen. There they discussed how policing can best be done, with the appropriate provision of forces. Because bad lies, we can't have many structures and a lot of policing. The criteria for this reorganisation were - and are - forensic data in the region, geographical distribution, road network, peculiarities and other peculiarities - tourist, island, etc. - and the possibilities of meeting the police housing needs. About 1,200,000 euros are rents on an annual basis currently paid by the police, while parallel to there are public buildings that are not used. This is what we are trying to do right now, to meet the needs by paying the least cost. As far as Achaias is concerned, I have here the studies made by experienced managers to support our proposal. In my dentistry, I'm going to tell you specifically about the police station you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u57	Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u58	I imagine the Minister has kept the good for the end. I cannot suspect that we are now being watched by all the mayors, all the policemen, all the areas mentioned - because special publicity has been given - the Minister will undo the promise he made a few days ago before the SYRIZA colleagues, who have again been on duty - and have rightly carried out - that this maximum harm will not happen to the people of Achaea. But I wanted to say this: Minister, you know very well - everyone knows, experience it - that the greatest crimes can be committed in the name of restructuring or reform. And you have just confessed that with so many less men and women, indeed, you cannot do this heavy work. No vehicles, no vehicles in there. I think we all agree on that. Only now is it not enough to make the findings. I think we should indeed see what we are doing at the level of responsibility, the direction of the work and the role of the police, what you say about a proper, new network of services. There are many cases where you can even free them from other procedures that are mentioned in earlier times, before Christ that says, before computers, and make savings there. You know, however, that with this stir or daily movements, I do not think the problem will be solved at the end of the day. And I didn't come here to do the smart guy for you, because I'm sure you live every day what it means to be moved either for the outer guard of prisons or for a thousand two needs. Time doesn't allow it and I break open doors. The Christian Democratic Party of Greece from the beginning came and bombed you with these questions not because it believes that you do not know the problem but because it is afraid that you might want to manage the problem you have, saying "so many I have and I will see what I will cut off from Achaia, what I will cut off from Arta, what I will cut off from Thessaloniki". I think, however, that the criteria which you mention cannot be followed by decisions which have also been taken in consultation. I really wasn't that day. It was of great, great interest and the institutions also responded. On my behalf, my political office manager went. But that's where you heard what you know, that they can't stay so large areas of guard. Mr President, I believe - as I have said before - that, in the end, you will prove in your dentures today that Maximus is listening and the government is listening, and above all you will not want to leave helpless and defenceless, living in security, those who have not been left in small communities, in communities of many people who are still alive, who are still alive. Don't do that. I'm sure you don't want to do it. Also, you'll find us allies in what's behind property exploitation. You're right, there's too many of these incidents and bad. See you for years now in this Chamber and outside. But they don't listen. The Achaia Police Palace has been lost for tiny reasons on the eve of the municipal elections and the studies have also been lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u60	It was ready to be auctioned, and you know it. And look at this at some point, because transferring police departments to the police station that is located in the centre of the city, with the known traffic problems, you realize you won't make it easier, on the contrary, you will be burdening even more on the bad security we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u61	The Minister has the floor to answer Mr Nicolopoulou's denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nicholas, the whole debate is obviously taking place at the moment in order to achieve better quality results, to achieve better safety and policing and to feel the inhabitants of the areas you are talking about, greater security, greater certainty. Our aim, therefore, is not to remove forces from the region, nor to make accounting changes in order to reduce only the cost. Maybe that's the last thing we're trying to do. Our sovereign priority is policing, increasing the sense of security. We take into account the specificities of mountainous areas. We do not have the flat area in Greece so that we can make more changes. The studies that I have shown you are focusing on particularities. And the Arctic and Cliteria Police Department have increased peculiarities. They will be taken into account. Procedures are under way. No final decisions have been taken. So we're trying, in the same space, without taking away powers, to increase the effectiveness of police officers, to be able to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u63	Is the matter still open, Minister? Because the papers said you said that in the Kalavrita they wouldn't close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u64	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u65	No, I didn't say that. That is why the clarifications are being given at the moment. There are - I say again - increased peculiarities for the police departments you have said. There will be no commitments on my part until the final decision is made. You understand that. We have taken note of the debate which took place in Patras and of the debate that is currently taking place here in the House. The great dilemma, Mr Nicholas, is whether we will maintain distortive structures and many structures or increase policing, we will increase efficiency so that police officers can get better results and people feel more security. This is our pursuit, and this is your pursuit. And I believe that we will work together precisely to achieve this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u66	So it's still open.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u67	Yes, until the final decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u68	Me too, Mr. Tosca.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, public promises and assurances have also been made by colleagues in the Coupling. That's why I'm asking if I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u70	Good. The second question, under number 316/14-12-2015, of the second question of the Congressman of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Aivatidis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning "the risk to the residents of the settlement of "KERKYRA IV - KULINA", due to static, structural and unequal construction failure", will not be discussed due to lack of competence and deleted. Also, the fifth under No. 306/14-12-2015 topical question by MP 2 of Athens, Georgios Amyrias, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the position of the Ministry for the PPC's request to grant free allowances for lignite generation, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the MP and deleted. Similarly, the sixth Question No 320/15-12-2015 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kosilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the threatened ratification of the loss of power in the event of the consumer being unable to repay, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member and deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Grade Kastoria. The House welcomes them. We move on to Question No 1050/11-11-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on procedural measures to offset mutual and cleared answers between the public and the citizens, so that they may be subject to their application to the most favourable regime. Mr Kegeroglou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Alexiadis. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. The question I have put to the Minister of Finance has, indeed, as a focus, the procedure to offset public debts to citizens with the debts of the citizens or legal persons. The answer given to me in writing, which I am being given late, is not the substance of the delay - in the part which is negotiating and answering is typically correct. So, what does Mr Alexiadis say? When we have a certain and cleared public debt to the citizens, of course we make it clear. But if it's not certain and cleared, we can't do it. In the first place, it is quite right and reasonable. But now listen to the paradox. Tax returns and VAT returns - I am focusing on returning income tax - are not considered certain and cleared over time. In other words, there is no public commitment to when to return. There's no timeline, there's no law, some circular, some direction. There are, perhaps, only oral, "Children, don't give why we don't have money" or "Find out why we now have". But there is no rule. So what's going on? We have a problem with these cases. The citizens, respectively, of legal persons, have public debts. For example, to get into the favourable regulation, the deadline of which expires on 17 January, I think, Minister, you will have to pay 25%. And the people of this category say, "Why don't you make me offset the return that makes me take with the 25% deposit that makes me give, to give the rest of it, to set up and settle my debts?" Or does the other citizen who owes him a tax refund, and he also has a debt, which does not want to enter the favorable arrangement, simply wants to offset: 'Why don't you make the setback within a certain period of time?' It does not deny him the public but does not do it, because there is no time limit, a time limit within which the public should pay the tax or VAT due. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you raise a very serious issue and I agree with the contents of the analysis you have made and the description. However, I should like to make it clear from the outset that I do not agree at all and what has been said either as an indication or as a reference, that there is a mandate for delaying, freezing or anything else for returns. It's very clear. There may have been such things in the past, but now there's nothing like that. It is hardly the order that the proceedings should proceed properly. And if you see the table every month with the returns of the Ministry of Finance - published, we have nothing to hide - it is clear that the returns are progressing properly. Anyone who is stalling, freezing or anything else is making returns is doing a disciplinary offence. One is that. We're moving on to the rest. The legal framework on refunds has not changed in 2015. It's what it used to be. And you know very well that this legal framework, the Public Revenue Contribution Code, that is, Article 83, provides for specific procedures which are not permitted by any official or Minister of Finance to violate. It is a specific context. And it must be a specific context. There is a need, in order to make a return, for the legal title to be issued. It's another thing to be the beneficiary of a return. Many times someone has the right to return but in order to get the money from the Treasury, they must have been issued on the basis of the law in force. The legal title, which is the individual version, must be issued. And, as we are quite clear to you in the answer, in order to obtain a set-aside, that is, in order to be able to offset obligations to tax with anything else, there should be a certain and cleared claim. If there is no such thing, no refund can be made. The question you are going to put or will certainly have to ask the citizens, that is why there are too many returns and setbacks - because they are still pending and worries both businesses and citizens - I tell you that they are still pending, because there is a complex legal framework, which, to a large extent, gives rise to issues of transparency and control. Because we need specific checks before refunds, and we do not want refunds to be carried out on the phone of any minister, secretary-general or any other, but we want to follow a specific flow. There is, therefore, a specific legislative framework. There are good or badly complex procedures and bureaucracy, and there must be public interest and transparency. It's another thing to have excesses. In other words, we do not want the crisis on refunds - and I say again - to be subjective, but we want there to be procedures. As you know, there is a great shortage of staff in the departments involved in these matters. These are the reasons for delaying returns or set-offs, a problem which we are facing at the Ministry of Finance, but I repeat, and I can assure you, there is no order, no complaints about delays or the freezing of refunds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and a trainer from the 3rd Arsadeio Municipal School of Psychology. The House welcomes them. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I'm in the unpleasant position to say we didn't get an answer. On the contrary, once again the size of the arbitrary public even in thought has emerged. What did the Minister tell us? He told us that I, as a public institution, have as much time as I want to do to clear up the individual leaf as the citizen has a deadline and go cut his head. That's what he told us. Look, the staff excuse was valid until the Greek State hired six to seven thousand people recently. Let's take the six to seven thousand people with priority to the Ministry of Finance's audit services, health and education. You don't have an excuse. Secondly, you say that transparency must be guaranteed and phones should not be made. Of course, we agree on that, although you have the right to do, if there is a collective issue. But the more you stumbling and bureaucratic obstacles, the more need increases and you and your partners are pushed. What do I suggest? First, specify the obligation to clear the service according to the level of the tax refund. For example, up to EUR 5,000 it cannot take ten months or ten weeks, it may take fifteen days. Up to EUR 15,000 would like a few days, etc. Make a classification, take out circulars or make legislative arrangements so that things can be settled and do not depend either on the staff member's mood, nor on the inertia that the system may have. The second point I ask you - and it is specific - is that, in cases where the payment of the tax is delayed, with the responsibility of the service, obviously, because there is a need to monitor - and I take the positive side of what you have said - the right to join the office will also be extended. 4337, or else we have two arbitrarinesses like the one I mentioned before. I would therefore ask you to establish this specific margin for the refund of VAT and, of course, if there is more time for them to be checked - I am not saying that it is all the same, there are cases where there is more time for them to be checked - in these cases there is an equivalent extension of the time limits for the citizen. Thank you in advance if you accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u77	I do not understand the austerity of your criticism and the arbitraryness of the public. You address them to a government which has received a specific tax mechanism and a specific institutional framework, for which I understand you do not want to have anything to do with it. But who created all this? And I do not understand why these issues, of the arbitrary public, have not been put in so many years and you have not brought any other institutional framework or other computer and automatic procedures, so that it is not necessary for the public to delay things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u78	Because you reacted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u79	So I don't understand why you're doing a review and please don't lose your temper...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u80	Am I losing my temper?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u81	Wait till you hear the answer. Don't lose your temper. I'm not asking you any questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u82	Answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u83	No vacation, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u84	The Greek people have given the answers to you. I don't have to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, the ministers are answering. They're not asking, they're answering the questions, okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u86	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u87	With regard to the question of the arbitrage of the State you said, there is no arbitrary publicity, there is a guarantee of public interest, and that is what we are doing. We have said so, there is a bureaucratic process, there are time delays, we have identified where it is, with these problems we are striving to deal with it, but in no case will we leave either through tax controls or through tax refunds or other pathogens of the tax system, to return to a time when the Greek people have expressed their opinion. That's over. There will be transparency and specific institutionalised procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I said at the outset that I would thank him in advance if he accepted the amendments. The arbitrary...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Kegeroglu...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u91	He doesn't say he's going to extend the citizen's right to join if for any reason he's delaying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u92	That is good, but only on personal grounds have you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, he does not understand. Why haven't it been so long? Because then as a trade unionist he refused and blocked the process, it's just things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u94	Please, not personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u95	We're acquainted with the pan-Hellenic, Mr. Kegeroglu, and you and I.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Alexiadis, please don't ask a question, because there's an answer at once. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on DETAILED EXPENDITURE The debate will take place at number 5/5/17-11-2015 of the Members of the New Democracy of Eleftherios Auganos, Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, Konstantinos Javaras, Sofia Vultesis, Athanasios Davakis, Konstantinos Vlasi, Apostolos Vesiropoulos, Georgios Stylou, Anna Karamanlis, Ioannis Vroutzis, Maria Antonios, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Steerios Giannakis, Anna - Michelle Asmakoulou and Theodorou Karagolou to his Prime Minister and Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction on whether “the Prime Minister is determined to fight the corruption found in his “Splan” of the Government. The first Member of Parliament has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the very serious issue of corruption. I want to start with an assumption, as the first question. Corruption phenomena exist everywhere. I do not want this question to be made in a climate of war between a government and a Civic Opposition. "It's your fault", "Not your fault", "You had more phenomena", "dogs, cheeks, spoon dogs" etc., as Mr. Tsipras used to say. Such approaches are in the wrong direction and seek to offset corruption. On the other hand, I prefer that there should be a debate without taboo and ideologies, without ideological backing. The government must express clearly about the policy it is considering to combat corruption and to express all parties their opinion and, of course, their position. The aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to combat corruption. And I am telling you about corruption that is diffuse in Greek society, a corruption that has entered into every aspect of public life and state in recent years and its cost is around EUR 33 billion annually. As you can see and understand, if we had not had any corruption for ten years, public debt would have disappeared. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus not on the individual and technical features of corruption and complexity, but on political features, because corruption is mainly a derivative of political culture. Political corruption, as an inappropriate relationship between the market and policy, has become part of our political culture. This is because corruption requires fraud and collusion and a concept of 'all right', a distortion of values, a peculiar conscience of law, a permanent and lasting deception. I am also referring, of course, to the political deception of "I take rocked rabbits, I throw my shirts and ties out at the end and I say that I have been fought by dogs and I have failed" or the last one, which is terrible and I think we will all agree on it, "I disagree but I sign as far-reaching and lucrative but I remain in my position as Minister". I am referring to Mr Spirtzi, of course. I am referring to all of this, because you have in your ranks, Mr Colleague, the epitome of political deception, dressed in my cloak on the left and, on the basis of it, all of you, put yourself in the government, but also Members of Parliament. I am also referring to all of this, because the political system is characterised by the extent and depth of corruption and is moving outside the laws and moral order. I would therefore like to refer to a number of key pillars that make up corruption, fuel it, constantly expand it, and of course the cycle is growing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a justice that has reached the limits of veto, a justice which is too late to be brought to bear, and that, in our view, is not justice. The members of the Association of Prosecutors of Greece, in their resolution at the 31st Regular Meeting convened just a few days ago, on 13 December 2015, express their concern about the phenomenon of repeated unsuccessful and vague public statements by executive bodies, which give the impression that justice is not functioning under the legality and autonomy regime reserved by the Constitution or that it did not function until recently. The problem of justice officials is not that they have to decide blind. It is that buffaloes should remain, when they are cursed and when they exist politically hinting and renowned bullying. Justice is the final judge. Everything ends in it, everything is validated or overthrown by it. I am sorry, but there is no proper justice and there will be no accumulated problems. Ladies and gentlemen, another side that composes the corruption canal is the state's strong legislative intervention. Multipurpose and evil are the basis for misconduct, lawlessness and corruption. Where we have to focus on legal certainty, on codification of legislation, but also on making out which laws are in force and who are inactive. We need legal certainty, one of the prerequisites for transparency. From there on, all Parliament's wings must agree on the principles of good legislation. I will not remain in the words of Mr Tsipras 'we will upset you in the legality' which she alone has not implemented as governor. Because it brings us - and you are bringing us - quickly to ratify legislative acts and has brought the vast majority of the bills as a matter of urgency with dozens of pointless amendments. It is Mr Tsipras himself who has transformed the act of legislation into a propaganda tool and then voted against it for reasons of principle. Everyone in the Chamber, please look into the Minutes to see it. Mr. Ministers, I'm sure you agree, too. But the day before yesterday, you brought us a huge bill without the report from the General Accounting Office of the State with scorpions, meaningful but also constitutional ambiguities and rain from amendments. Of course, you had to get it back today after a claim by the lenders. This is sad and insulting for the Greek Government, unfortunately, but you impose us on us to legislate on the foot. It is not possible here to produce such legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main outbreaks of corruption is the public sector, which you are defending and do not want in any way to touch, improve and correct. This must not be taken on an equal footing, nor should it be a retreat for civil servants. The public sector, however, must be the head of the spear for growth. The public sector must work effectively and exemplaryly. For this reason, I think we should focus on specific reforms. I remember at the time when the Government of New Democracy made appointments to head of the ECJ and to legal persons supervised by ministries, then SYRIZA colleagues asked: “What criteria do you choose, gentlemen of the Government? You shall make “day” appointments, etc. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the same is happening today and unfortunately on much worse terms. You cease successful administrations, hospitals, government bodies to replace them solely with your interpersonal and party relationships. This is what your ministers, such as Mr. Friends, like Mr. Spirtzis and a number of others, are doing today, who are appointed by the SYRIZA offices as Heads of State. Mr. Spirjis, of course, was not content with one director for each urban transport company, but he wanted two. And since the legislation did not allow it, it brought about a legislative improvement - an amendment, it did it 'two' and it appointed them. It goes on to say that you continue this failed way beyond practice. As of April 2014, the New Democracy, after ensuring the economic stabilisation of the country, opened up a very important chapter, that of institutional reconstruction, the institutional change necessary for the country and the Revision of the Constitution. This is because, ladies and gentlemen, the institutional reconstruction of the country is a necessary condition, not only for the treatment of many of the poor texts of the political system but for the liberation of our country's creative forces. As a new Republic, we had tabled a series of proposals for the constitutional review in the public debate, with the accountability of civil servants. Withdrawal of Ministers, transparency of parties' finances, immunity of MPs and a number of others, the functioning of legislative and executive powers, a proposal for a non-conformity of ministers, MPs setting a time limit for the term of office of the Prime Minister, MPs, but also of self-government and trade unions, better government function and continuity, the election of five-year-old staff on the budget and external issues, but also a reduction in the number of Members. It is a first-class opportunity to open up a major but, above all, productive debate on the institutional reconstruction of the country, first of all, with constitutional reform. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras has been flagged by the fight against corruption over the last few years. Today, however, we are seeing another Tsipras. One after the other incident of corruption of members of the government, he knocks on the door of the prime minister's office and he goes out and covers without even waiting for judgments of justice. I would remind you of the Katorugalou case with the contracts he had with fired people who reappointed and of which he received huge fees. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. I would remind you of the case of Mrs Valavani, who, by using her internal information as Minister, has promptly taken her money out of the bank. I would remind you of Mr Flavouraris's case - which is here today - with his participation in a technical company that also took public works. I would remind you of what has been written recently in the press about a service office by two government ministers - Spiritzi, Poppa - who deal with citizens' cases with the unpaid, hired by a majestic slave. And while they have asked, because I think that there should be no such shadows, some are in a hurry to draw conclusions and, without having closed the matter, they have made various comments, even as to whether there has been a relocation. I would remind you of the case of the Minister of Economy, Mr Stathakis, who, with the kind inactivity that he sees, said that he forgot to declare EUR 1.8 million and some thirty-eight properties for three consecutive years. I would remind you of what has been revealed for negotiations by the Ministry of Justice, in particular Mr Lambros, with criminal prisoners and members of terrorist organisations, as the former Minister Panoussis denounced. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I close, Mr President, by saying that despite the growing social and political discontent, the future of our country depends to a large extent on the development of a long-term framework for the recovery of economic growth, but also on the substantial and irreversible fight against corruption. Mr Tsipras, unfortunately, is wandering around and shouting about the moral advantage he no longer has. You don't have the advantage you've been invoking for years! You have been identified with corruption and the argument of moral advantage has long been excavated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u99	Please complete, Mr. Ausgeakis. Yes, Mr. President. After all, Mr Tsipras is using the fight against corruption completely communication and invokes it to recapitalise his MPs' trembling faith at the expense of the unbearable measures he asks them to vote on. But do not deceive yourself, ladies and gentlemen! The Prime Minister and the current government have neither the political will nor the pure intention, as commanded in society. It is a first-class opportunity, regardless of political position and ideological approach, to join a common front against complexity and corruption, to work together for what society itself demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u101	For the 'black' funds of 'SIEMENS' you forgot to say something!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u102	Please, Mr. Comrade! Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's topical question seeks to highlight the largest or most important tales of the Translocation, the so-called 'ethical advantage of the Left'. And since I do not like to speak in general and vaguely, I am very pleased that the Minister of State, Mr Flabouraris, is present in the Chamber, because I prefer people to speak before them, Mr Flabouraris, rather than in their absence. I found that in a speech in the House you had the courage to appeal to justice when my colleague, Mr Marios Salmas, made a relevant statement. I shall therefore give you my opinion on the Flabourir case and how the Flabourir case proves that the moral advantage of the Left was not just a fairy tale, but it was something worse. It was a clean lie. And I would like to have the specific answers. When the paper "CORDER THEMA" came out as news that a Minister of New Democracy at the time, George Vulgarakis, had a company to pay less taxes with the properties of his family -actually legitimate, whether it was moral is ambiguous - for two weeks in Greek society became pan-uralism. All journalists, all newspapers, all SYRIZA MPs then asked for the resignation of Mr. Vulgarakis, because he had said the famous phrase "what is legitimate and moral". Now let's go see the Flemish case, where after a few years the newspaper itself - completely random! - it came out that Mr. Flamburis had a share in a construction company that took projects from the public sector and was paid as a priority. Yes, sir! The first answer by Mr Flavouraris was 'how dare you and ask me that I have forty years a fight on the left?' What do you say, Minister? If you have forty years struggles on the left, can you be a tax collector? If you have forty years of struggles on the left, can you violate the law on the recommendation of the Ministerial Council? If you have forty years of struggles on the left, can you do false 'where have you got'? Let us now assume that you have done nothing of this. Let us take as true what you have said is the truth and then I will ask the question. What did you say? That one day after the elections you went to a police service and transferred this company. To see how big I am, I accept that it's true, I accept that you're telling the truth, that this paper is not a fake. I'm saying that's a fake thing you said, that's what I think. But because I like the presumption of innocence...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u104	You can sue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u105	May I finish, Minister? We're political opponents here, we're not a court. Listen to me, because I want you to answer me carefully, and I don't get the nerve of your last time, you know!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u106	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u107	So listen. Let's assume what you're saying is true. According to the paper you deposited, you've already taken the first dose in November. I want you to show us the movement of your bank account, which you received the first instalment of the paper you deposited. Mr. Papagelopoulos, Minister of Corruption, who sits next to you, you have an obligation to check if he has received the doses of the paper he deposited. If he hasn't collected the doses, then the paper is fake and you have to put him in jail, because he's a felony. Let's go to second. Let's just say that Mr. Papagelopoulos is not going to be in control right now, as to whether you've collected the instalments that you said you're going to collect. I want to see what you will answer, Mr. Flambury, for the moral advantage of the Left. According to what you said, you have taken from the sale of your company EUR 1 million and something. Yes, sir. Rejoice and rejoice! You don't tell me, Mr. Voutsi, a man who says he has taken 1 million euros, can go to the Municipality of Aegina and ask the municipality to give him the 4,000 euros of the 6,000 euros he owes for his pool with the water and ask for the other 2,000 euros to pay them back in two hundred instalments, because he's unavoidable? Mr. Flambury, don't hide behind Mr. Alexiadis! I want to see you, look you in the eye. Is it possible, Mr Flambury, to say that you have 1 million euros from the sale of your company and at the same time to ask and achieve the deletion of EUR 4,000 of the 6,000 that you owed for the water in Aegina? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Excuse me, bring here a law, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if you have a gum and say that whoever has less than EUR 1 million, we delete the debts, as we did to the Flemish who has the moral advantage of the Left. Otherwise, if we do this only to Flamouraris, who told us that he took the 1 million euro from the sale of his company, but at the same time deleted the debt from the EEAS because he is poor and indestructible, then I'm sorry, but this is not called the moral advantage of the Left, this is called the heavy mockery of the Greek people! And I would like to congratulate Mr. Ausgeakis. Mr. Ignace, you've done an excellent job. You are a model MP for the New Democracy. The work you've done these months is a model. You raised the issue of Koronakis. Thanks to Mr. Ausgeakis... [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't laugh, gentlemen! Mr Augias made it out that you had a secretary in your party - another if he now left you - who was irresponsible and declared a false address. Mr Augias raised Mrs Valavani's money, other than if she left your party. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] And today, Mr. Augias raised matters with Mr. Springzis. Mr. Springzis do you know who he is? The one who signed it at the airports weeping, the lame one!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u108	Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u109	I'm closing, Mr. President. As the ancient Greeks said, the talented Springzis, with a heavy heart, signed for the sale of airports! To conclude, do not think again about moral advantage, and above all, Mr Flavourari, do not think in this Parliament of threatening anyone with recourse to justice and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Georgiade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u111	You're a politician. You will accept control over you and you will answer the substance. Please submit to the minutes the movement of the account, based on the contract that you have submitted that the money has entered the account of Mr. Flambury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u113	I don't see you taking the floor. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u114	The questions will be spoken first. Mr. Blasis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the friends here by SYRIZA, I understand that today is a difficult day, because after yesterday's shipwreck, which in fact has taken back this famous parallel programme, they are forced today to be here. Unfortunately, our debate today is at another level, so that's all right, we'll have days to talk about it. As far as the fine question of our friend Mr.Aughaki's question about corruption is concerned, it is really a question of wondering with the dissatisfaction of the "first-time left" in Greece. And I am not standing in the fine lies, with which you too are well aware that you have reached the vote of the Greek people, the vote of all those who, if you return now either to the province or Athens, as magically, no one speaks of SYRIZA. He says: "I voted SYRIZA? No. No.' But you kept it up and going. And I'm not talking about the famous government of salvation. We forgot about her. Until four months ago, we were told about a government of salvation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u116	National salvation!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u117	Where is this salvation government that took us to elections in September? Then we continued with the parallel programs, after the capital control. The parallel programs go too. We were finished yesterday in one afternoon. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] The truth, however, is that it has not been for a year and the great archangel of the cleansing - so I remember him - the warlord of corruption, your Prime Minister, is today proving to be naked, with a government that is submerged in strife and corruption. You know it yourself. You can see it. And unfortunately, you know, for the new Members, as I am a ten-month-old MP, it is really an accident when someone who came 11 months ago and was evangelizing the new one - your Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras - is being memorized today. And nothing else, at the same time, to embarrass us and we who are not to blame. We met in a parliament in the opposition, publishing the news, and at the moment we are going back to our districts and saying, "We have seen the new one. We saw Mr Tsipras what he did." Pre-elections you were talking about good, honest and improper. Everyone else was vicious and crooked. Today what do you have to say? And suddenly, close, close colleagues of the Prime Minister proved intertwined through companies, predictors of capital controls, careless in the statement 'from where you were, candidates - canalarchs. Scandals big or huge. For all of this, so that society can know and let not be told by many. And what hasn't arrived in our ears? Of course, how many of the things we haven't taken yet will come out day after day? What happened to hospital administration just ten days ago? You've seen them. Inside some paradox interviews that lasted two or three minutes, you suddenly kicked everybody out. All previous commanders were bad! And the ones you put tomorrow - we expect to see them - are the ones who will change everything. Meanwhile, hospitals headless, medicines don't exist anywhere, materials for surgery are nowhere. And believe me, as a doctor working in hospitals, I live. So the question is how he reacted or even how the Prime Minister will react from now on and how our Minister here, Mr Flamouraris, will react. You know, because of my election in the region, I'm being caught by friends down in Arcadia and they say, "What's going on? The company ‘DIMINATION’ took EUR 3.9 million from the Peloponnese Region; Mr. Flambury, the District Administrator downstairs, Mr. Tatolis, told us he doesn't even know you, he doesn't even know you. I hope you will also say that you do not know him, because for us at least, the district manager happens to know even about any small supply of 5,000 or 6000 euros that comes out in Arcadia. You suddenly didn't know you at all. Sure, you're gonna tell me, did he have to know you? Theoretically, you shouldn't be in a company where, when the laws are clear, you can't hold shares when you're in the government at the same time. But so far, we have seen Mr. Tsipras covering you and saying nothing. We expect you to answer clearly, not to throw the ball in the stands and tell us what's going on. Are you in this company? How will your Prime Minister react? I don't know. However, the revelations are storming and will continue to be stormy. Until now, all we have been watching is unfortunately the cover-up, the prime acquittal and the reward of the interlocutory. Unfortunately, everywhere there is lawlessness, corruption, arrogance, hypocrisy that reap within the inner parts of the government. To say this, in fact, more popular, because we have seen it recently, they are dancing Zaybek in the Prime Minister's circle. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let us hope today that we have clear answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd High School of Igoumenitsa. The House welcomes them. Welcome to Parliament and Athens. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The honourable Member has the floor, Mrs Sophia Vultesis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally have never accepted this general devotion to the left of moral advantage, despite the fact that an attempt has been made to impose for decades. Many have been imposed. Many times right has had to use as an argument to degrade this dominant view of anything that is relevant. I say this because the issues of corruption and of war against corruption are the current SYRIZA - ANEL government used them as a flag to convince the people that the indestructible ones are coming. And the question of moral advantage was conveyed to the people as a dominant view. I would like to put forward a point of order relating to the theoretical part of this debate. The government has included the issue of corruption and the interaction in a more general plan for the construction of internal enemies: foreigners, the IMF, domestic troika, foreign troika, journalists who are misinforming, state officials who are putting triples, corruption, conflict, all of them who are preventing the SYRIZA - ANEL from doing their spectacular work, all those who are putting obstacles to the populous government that constantly takes the approval of the people. I ask this once again: if the people agree, why are you making such a fuss to try and convince him with a parallel programme? You have achieved something that has never succeeded post-war and then the Greek Civil Government. They agree with you and the people and the Americans. What else do you want? This is a great achievement. Look, it can't be on the one hand the dogs screaming, the Cassandras, the destructors, the media that magnify and set up everyday fairy tales and upset public opinion. So all these propagandas are what in propaganda is called the 'peace of the people', which only people, according to the attempt to impose as the dominant view, the SYRIZA - ANELs can defend him. Such practices follow, know, only totalitarian regimes. Only totalitarian regimes use various built internal and external enemies, in order to enforce their sovereignty, because that is the only way they can impose them on the people, disorientate them, tell him that another is the enemy, another is to blame for his suffering. It is like the Memorandum: on the one hand, the memorandum, and on the other, a slight parallel programme, which if the Troika tells us, we can withdraw. On the one hand, the corruption that exists is massive, such as the Memorandum. On the other hand, there is a parallel course to combat it. What SYRIZA is saying now, when he uses this argument of moral advantage. He says: “Yes, we do not give you the thirteenth pension we promised you, but we have a moral advantage, we fight corruption. We didn't collide with the troika, but we're going to collide with corruption and strife. We did not cancel the memorandum at noon, but this happened because there are forces working in the dark and we are trying to beat them." [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] In other words, we make something big and hide from under all the smaller ones. They say a great lie, such as a parallel project, 'war against corruption', we create a dominant view and people actually identify you with the impoverished and asks: 'Well, is it possible for all these indestructibles who have the moral advantage, as we have been told, to make little corruption scandals of no importance, not to say that, not to have done that in a transparent way?' Of course, we have the lists. Lots of lists, Mr. Ministers! We did not get enough of the list of Lagard, which Mr Nicholas himself had said is very difficult, but also in the evidence provided by the Minister present, Mr Alexiadis, it appeared that in SYRIZA - ANEL, only eighty cases have begun, and in the previous two years it was twice or more than double the starting number. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done with this. So we didn't get enough of the Lagard list, now we have more lists to tell people. There's the list of Vades - Burtembergs, etc.. They sent us, we give us names, so that the people would say, "Stand my child! All right! They did not give us the thirteenth pension - which I would remind you again - before the January elections, then in February, Mr Tsipras himself said that it was the first measure to restore the insurance sector - 'but I will have a few more lists.' Make the lists one by one, and then tell us what conclusion you will draw. You are simply using corruption to hide the inability, a philosophical rule that exists and a client system that is now being set up, through a new party state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u120	The honourable Member has the floor, Mrs Anna Karamanlis. You have the floor, Mrs Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to let you know that I'm gonna use the time of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u122	No, it can't be like this now. You'll have a tolerance, too, like everyone else. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u123	Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Ministers, we have to admit that you are a kind of authority. You have forsaken the vote promising exactly the opposite of what the government does to you today. You have proposed a moral advantage and today you are tolerated or covered by the conduct of those who confirm the exact return. Such contempt for a people, but also for such political fraud, and at such a critical time, they have never been. Yesterday you were talking about rule of law, and today we're watching unwittingly the cover-up of your officials with problems at your place. The forgotten millions and forgotten shares of your ministers have dealt with them with half of them and a tendency to degrade the issue. And you rushed to compare their cases to the logic "old was worse". Only you forgot that Mr. Tsohatzopoulos was sentenced, among other things, to hide assets from his place of residence. Yesterday you were talking about family rule, and today you are settling cousins, nephews, wives and other relatives by sharing shares of power. I must admit that such a commitment of SYRIZA to the institution of the family did not expect it. Soi, the realm goes! Yesterday you were talking about a party state, and today the state has salted it into trade unionists and other persuasive organs of your party mechanism and not just. Yesterday you were talking about merit, and today you are ceasing and hiring people with a travesty of memorial old-fashioned communism. A recent example is the administrations of hospitals. You do not follow the pretexts in education. You offer bonuses to the interview in the host countries and hand over the keys of the educational system to a party and trade union mechanism, while the control of the administrations of the HEI is also attempted through the law on education. Yesterday you spoke of favorableness, and today you share, as you share, the television licenses with superpowers with the Minister of State, who will also decide on their number and the terms on which they will be given. These, as you know, are dark things that, rather than haggling with canalarchs, refer. On the question of the independence of institutions, which is a prerequisite for democracy and good administration, you started by saying that they do not need it. And you have just realised that European legislation does not allow you to abolish them, you are trying to control them by changing compositions and appointing dependent people from the party. We expect to see how your attack will manifest itself in justice. The first interventions in its work have already begun. This is your attitude to the main enemies of the interlocutory, the sovereignty, the independence of the institutions and the functioning of the rule of law! A better example of condensing all of this is that of the former Vice-President of the Parliament and your former prominent executive Mr. Metropoulou. We heard him recently - Mr. Flamburis is not here - claiming that Mr. Flamburis threatened him that if he did not accept his downgrading to SYRIZA vote he would be crushed by the IAS for a tax case. Mr. Flambury has not denied any of this until today. I would like you to tell us what you intend to do, Mr Papagelopoulos, with a minister who threatens a Member with a crash from the ILO if it does not comply. And what's the ILO? Is that a terrorist mechanism? And if the Congressman complied, what would happen? Would his case go into the file and "not a cat or a harm"? On this matter, I have tabled a question and the comic answer I received from the Minister of State is 'We inform you that we are not commenting on statements from former Vice-Presidents of the Parliament'. Mr Papagelopoulos, I am waiting for your position on this, because Mr Papayannakis said that we are not commenting on statements by former Vice-Presidents of the House. We are talking about a serious complaint at the MEGA television station, which was attended by thousands of Greeks. Look! You cannot rule either with findings or with setbacks. You're about to close a year in power. The attitudes and practices that you have been accusing them for years are today served to the antenna and you prove that your aim is not to fight interacting and corruption, but your aim is to play interlocutors in terms of SYRIZA. One more thing. With what you reveal daily, the error of the white and undefiled Left ends. And to catch up with you, don't tell us that the others were ruling forty years. This candy has been melted and with it the myth of the Left's opt-out has not exercised power. Because you exercised authority. And yours are most of those who defended benefits, which were opposed to changes, which contributed to the giantization of the state and the guilds, which have cancelled investments, which have persecuted businesses, without them doing anything themselves, because they had no business to close or anyone could kick them out of state or trade union chairs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I'm closing up with this. I don't know if you really want to be involved with the old one, as you claim. Even in this case, however, you have lost, because your government is emphasizing the most anachronistic and old-fashioned there is in our political system. And you know that no communication wrapping will be able to hide it for a long time, because our people are not saying the words, but the essence and the works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u124	And we are closing the list of New Democracy Members with Mrs Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u125	In theory, what we are discussing today, namely combating corruption and interlocutory, should be an issue to which we all wish to agree, to have a common objective, should we not? Who doesn't want to fight corruption and complications? I am not saying this just so that we can all invoke it, and that we have hands clearly, because, firstly, we are MPs and have sworn to serve the Constitution and the Laws and Corruption and conflict are many times illegal and, secondly, because, obviously, it is immoral and that has implications for the credibility of the political system that we all want to safeguard for the good of Greece and, of course, it also costs the Greek people. So we should be able to convene on this issue. So in order to be able to turn to such a subject, in my view - because you know that consensus is a more general subject at the time - there are two conditions: first, you must want to. All right, let me accept that we all want to. And, secondly, there must be credibility, not only in the words but in the works. The previous honourable Members have highlighted various aspects which do not help us to feel that you have credibility in this matter. If corruption - let's say - is the game, it's the chess - say it's what you want - the complication is putting the pawns on the chess board, so you can control the game. Let me say that the samples we have seen so far, as regards your handling on this, are not the most encouraging ones. And I'm talking about the staffing of the government board, I'm talking about the staffing of the state mechanism, I'm talking about issues that have been raised by previous colleagues, such as hospital administrations, such as the placement of a person you know could never be accepted by us as president of the board on education, this kind of moves show that the criteria you want to serve are partisan and not civic. And I'm saying it with complete consciousness that this practice, in which I criticize, is a practice that my party has responsibilities for its use. We're supposed to go down to it. Well, I don't see that happening. I want to dwell on one particular thing and, in particular, on some criteria of this kind of aptitude for staffing. The Constitution itself requires them. And I'm talking about the independent authorities. And that is where we intend to agree. Mr. Tsipras himself said in a speech to BSE on May 28, 2014 that it would be an extreme micro-party opportunism not to ask for wider consents to the independent authorities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because this piece of legislation on television licences has come, and because there has been an attempt within it to do something there with the terms of the PSE, which has fallen into the void and has been retreat from the relevant Minister, because we have seen all of this, I want to see all of this today for the independent authorities and, above all, for the PSE, warn you - let me say - politically. If you think there will be some kind of change in the Rules of Procedure of the House, or some kind of manoeuvre in the composition of the Conference of Presidents, which will enable you to obtain one-party or majority of the opportunity to put anyone you want to the PSE, you know that we are not sleeping. And if you think you'll be able to legislate something where you get the responsibilities that are constitutionally enshrined in the independent authorities and take them to a parallel thing and from there do your boxes and control the situation, not in relation to it, we're sleeping. I'm closing, Mr. President. Because I referred to this parallel legalization and because the attempt to legislate yesterday fell into the void, you should know that the rest of the Greeks actually live in the same universe of SYRIZA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I would ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u127	It goes without saying that you have the floor, Mr President. I don't take time because I know you're a lacquer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u128	I would like to clarify the matter of the independent authorities raised by Mrs Michelle Asmakopoulou, because, if necessary, she did not attend the press conference we gave here a week ago in Parliament, which clarified these issues. There is no intention, as far as I know, on the part of the government, and certainly not from the Bureau of Parliament, to change the Rules of Procedure or the composition of the Conference of Presidents or anything that has to do with the Constitution on this matter. The issue that has been raised and it is important that we should be aware - and in any case a few 24 hours' time - is that, after clarifying the Civicism, which must obviously be within a wider consensus so that there can be the 4/5 in terms of the independent authorities, after clarifying the issue of the leadership of the Civilian Repression, immediately afterwards - that is, in this year - we will make a serious effort to make all the members of the Conference of Presidents, you know that, so that there is a consensual proposal on substance and plagiarity, at least for two of these principles, namely, the ESS and the PSC. Then for the others. If this is not the case, that is to say if such an agreement cannot be reached, it is now a matter of legislative reform on the law passed a few months ago in Parliament, on the jurisdiction of anyone who gives the first authorizations to television, in this case. I would like to make it clear, because perhaps some colleagues will not know, that it is not the responsibility of the National Broadcasting Council under the Constitution to grant permissions. The issue of licensing is, first of all, a matter of legislation in modern legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u129	That is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Ignace, allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u131	With all due respect, Mr President, what you are saying is inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Ignace, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u133	You'll answer your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u134	Please don't interfere with things you don't know. We don't all know it all. Please, let me say so clearly. First of all, it was legislated by the law brought by Mr. Pappas. Previously, it didn't exist. So, if there is to be a change, it will be in the legislative framework. It will not be an intervention either in the Constitution or in the Rules of Procedure. I repeat, the effort of all of us, not just the government or the President of Parliament, is to find solutions together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u135	In agreement with the Director-General, Mr Gine, with the Ministers, he first asked to speak - and not in twenty minutes - the Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, and then Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, who said to complete the 20th minute. You realise that there will be a tolerance for both, because instead of forty it will be much smaller, there will be a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u137	Since your name has been mentioned, Mr Flamouraris, I will give you the floor after the two Ministers, on behalf of the staff who have been raised, in your view. Mr. Papagelopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes. If you need a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u138	Perhaps you don't have to, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to answer a specific timely question. My professional career has taught me to evaluate evidence, but to reject, but to adopt, but to break down. But here, with my surprise by the New Democracy Members I have seen very little to do with this question. I will respect the parliamentary order and respond to what is the subject of today's sitting. However, I will not avoid temptation to give some answers to very mild tones, because I believe that mild political dialogue is always necessary, much more in times of crisis. But that is why I will come back in line with the course of the debate. First of all, apart from my previous point of view that the debate has escaped the text of the topical question, I would like to point out that an attempt has been made to change to a historical trial. To judge the moral advantage of the Left. The moral advantage of the Left, the moral advantage of the New Democracy, is not something that is being tried at the same time. This is the result of behaviour, governance and other factors. Mr. Augias spoke about twelve to thirteen minutes. Eleven or twelve minutes have been mentioned in matters other than the agenda. For one minute only he referred to the text of the question that has been tabled and we are discussing today. I will say on the procedure that the Rules of Procedure of the House in Chapter VI, Questions, Rule 134(2), stipulate that ‘the Member who has submitted a question or a request for documents is entitled to ask a question if he considers that the Minister's reply is not sufficient or that the documents requested or some of them have not been delivered to him’. In this case, Mr.Avgenakis had previously tabled his question under number 1189/16-11-2015, which he considered beforehand that our answer would not be sufficient. And so, the next day, on the 17th day, he tabled the question we are discussing today. I could not answer that question, since the next day I had the question today. However, I answered him because I think there was nothing that the government could be afraid of or could not oppose his argument. At least the timely question that we have started with the theme of Mr Spirtzi and Mr Pappas, which, according to the question, was initiated by reports, by radio broadcasts. And today, in the one minute that Mr Aiggeakis devoted himself to this issue, he has again been referred to as if nothing has happened until then. Mr. Papachristos, who had, in his unparalleled way, raised the issue with his post on December 7, 2015, which was about ten days ago, fully recovered. And with a lot of intelligence, I confess, and with an unparalleled technique, it again limited the sum of EUR 50,000 that the two ministers were taking, in some cakes and something sweet for Mr. Poppa's celebration. Nevertheless, Mr Aygeakis and the questionable Members of the New Democracy insist. I think I have nothing else to say in my prototype. In the same text we are debating today, we are talking about famine - migratory - you will allow me to speak - various people who are related to SYRIZA on various issues that have been answered in the past, with Mr Flavouraris being dominated. All of this has been answered. However, in very few words, I will return to our memory what has been said so far. For Mrs Valavani. I do not understand, did Mrs Valavani commit any criminal offence herself or are we talking about her conduct of relatives? I think family or collective responsibility are dangerous things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u139	Of course. (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u140	What are you talking about, Mr. Kurubli?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u141	For Mrs Valvain, I do not think she has heard that she made the same money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u142	Don't talk to the two Ministers at the same time. There's no work going on. Mr. Curublis, you'll talk later. You'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u143	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u144	I'm returning the characterization, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u145	Now are we going to continue? Because it doesn't sound or record anything. Go on, Mr. Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u146	I would refer to a phrase from Mrs Valverde's reply: 'Some people seem to have learned corruption as a way of coexistence of people and such situations are also trying to find out within the current government'. For Mr. Stathakis. I think that Mr Stathakis' statements are being examined by the committee responsible. So whatever reference is made, and from me and from anyone else, it is premature and that can be considered an intervention. I will only say that for 2013 and 2014, but also for 2012, a further statement was followed. After all, in '12 I think Mr Stathakis had no say in politics, so he had no reason to hide. The time has come for politicians to display any illegal enrichment from the exercise of their political activity. For Mr. Koronakis. Mr. Koronakis, I think he served his military service.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u147	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u148	After we got him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u149	All right, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u150	Let's get a little serious, your description is funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u151	Didn't I hear what you said? Be serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u152	Remind me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Augias insists he did not serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Balaura, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u155	What are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u156	Excuse me, is there a president up here or isn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u157	Did he serve or not serve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u158	You don't even know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u159	Mr Balaura, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, listen, I am not going to allow it to become a theater in here! The new Republic's members are all second. Therefore, what you say from the benches and not recorded, say it from the microphone when the time comes, to be recorded. Mackey, please, calm down! I'm sorry, Minister, second time I interrupt you. Keep going, I'll keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u160	Just remember where I stopped. For Koronakis, I will hear your objections and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u161	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u162	I'm a little quoted, 'cause you're stubbornly hurting him. For Mr. Friday and Mr. Lambrou. On a number of occasions Mr Paradise has answered this issue. I will only add that every government with a sense of sensitivity, prisons should not consider them as a place of soul storage and should disguise what is going on in there and take the necessary measures to improve them. As for me personally, I will say that all people and even prisoners must not only have a chance or two. But I personally think that people should have many opportunities in their lives. Now let's go to Mr. Flambury. If I didn't answer the other faces you mentioned, I'll come back to my dentistry. Here I would like to say that the only conscientious thing that raised the question was Mr Adonis Georgiadis, who gave up his five-minute question on a matter we were discussing today. Of course, he made a decision in advance that he was a tax collector, that he had false things to do. All this, however, if this is the case, will be judged in the process. I would simply point out that another inaccurateness of today's debate, rather than of the text we are discussing today, is that on the 17-11 date that has been tabled, he considers that Mr Flavouraris still has the shares at his disposal. I want to inform him that the shares, and by notarial document now, have been transferred from 25-9.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u163	The move of the account...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u164	I'll tell you about the bill, Mr. Georgiades. I'll tell you. As for the account, I would like to tell you that if it is submitted, you will find that the first instalment of the price has a deadline to be deposited by the end of December. That's what the deal says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u165	The first thing that came out was in November. Now it's December.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u166	I'll answer you so there won't be any misinterpretations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u167	It changes the months too. November was first. Now it's December?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Georgiades, when I'm at the seat, calm down in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u169	He says it himself, he's laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u170	The baby's laughing, not even ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u171	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u172	I will just say that, whether it is November or December, your argument is undoed that while he had a million, he went and applied for four grand, because that was before it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u173	If you wait for the million, are you poor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Georgiadis, excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u175	But, Mr President, we hear incredible things here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u176	Listen to them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u177	But we're being offended, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u179	You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u180	You should be ashamed of yourself! Because you want to be president, do you have to do some shitty shit in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u181	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u182	Please, Mr. Famele!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u183	You're not ashamed! Do you have the face to talk all these years? We got you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u184	Did you catch us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u185	Please do not write anything in the Minutes. Calm down and the wing from here. In any case, I tell you that nothing is written in the Minutes. Absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u186	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u187	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Mada! Mr. Georgiadis, you have a second. You'll come to Stepma and you'll say it and it'll be written in the Minutes, which I assume is more of a value than yelling at them without writing anything. Minister, go on. I'm zeroing it, and I'm giving you three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u189	Although I have heard Mr Georgiadi's words that I am insulting his intelligence, I will remain faithful to what I have said that I will keep the mild tones in a consensual policy. After all, Mr Georgiadis, which I know very much before you, has always been consensual, it was dialogue and civilised climate. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Also, as time passes now, I prefer to respond to specific issues. What's the point of Mr. Flambury? Mr Flavouraris' company took a job - because it worked before and I think it is good for politicians to work before they deal with politics - by someone I do not want to name him, who did not belong to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u190	His company was right you said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u191	The project was progressing normally, there was no complaint of intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u192	You didn't understand well, there was from the second minority. You're wrong. He doesn't know well, the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Ignace! You're an old parliamentarian! Is that a process?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u194	He doesn't know what the Minister says!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u195	All right, you'll tell your dentistry. For God's sake! In five days we have Christmas. Are we going to be doing the arena today?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u196	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u197	He'll say whatever everyone wants. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u198	I am trying to get back to my argument and say briefly now, because my time is constantly limited, that after the elections, when Mr Flaburris was told he would take over a ministerial court, what did he do? He applied for retirement, stopped his profession, transferred the shares and handed over the body. If we still accept that there was a false transfer - which I could argue here, because those of you who are legal are aware that there is always a counterpart, but I accept that he had to do symbolically - was extinguished only by the resignation and delivery of the stock body, which is the result of the book that he ended with his professional activity. Because you're talking about an invalid act of 180, I remind you in 183. This was healed in September that was now the symbolic transfer. And I say, looking into your eyes: is this Flambourir's behavior a major issue? Is that the point? What if Flambury made the transfer by notarial or proxy, when everything else has been done normally? And because something has been said about the activation of the law on the responsibility of the ministers, I would remind you that the law on the responsibility of the ministers says that 'Minister or member of the government if he commits any offence'. I ask you and I expect a concrete answer: what offence has the Flambourris committed us to demanding and energising the court? When incidentally, a retired lawyer honored a lawsuit based on the articles, who went to the prosecutor, knowing that the prosecutor is a one-way street and cannot control ministers and will send it to the House, causing the noise concerned. We've written about the water for the Flambourris. I read yesterday - he forgot to tell me, Mr. Flamburis, but I remembered - that some suspect guys were going there and doing something to PPC's watch. Evidently there something would put on, that he was stealing electricity, stealing water, didn't keep the shares. It's a very nice target. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you must remember and know very well that the populist Prime Ministers - and I am not only talking about today - are a clever way to hit them is to hit their environment. You have to remember that. I remember it very well. So Flampoures was one of the goals. That's all about my prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u199	Before I give the floor to Mr Kurublis and because they are in fact being held, and I do not want - not as President-in-Office but as a member of the Commission 'from now on' - to say things that I should not like you to know that the extension until 31 December was given because there was no contract with the sworn accountants of the House. It had to be given, therefore, because none of us - except those who had the welfare since the summer to testify and I am referring to the old - had testified 'from now on'. This extension was therefore granted. Secondly, I should like to say to the two colleagues, Mr Flavouraris and Mr Stathakis, the following: it has just been signed - 15 days ago - the new convention with a decision by the President and the Committee with the Corps. I am telling you, indeed, that, as has been said so far, the convention has been renewed. There was no change in any company. All the companies that were before, the same were renewed. As a matter of priority, therefore, and by a unanimous decision, the Commission 'from the outset' at the previous meeting, i.e. about ten days ago, asked for the 'before' of Mr Stathakis and Mr Flavourari to be checked. It is certain that once the House opens, we will have the conclusion. However, I think it would be good, since the control is in progress, for those in favour or for those who are against, to be a little careful because both sides may be surprised about an intervention issue which must not be done. This is the formal, procedural part of the Commission's 'before' task for the two Ministers. Whether they're to blame or not, when the finding comes out, we'll all know. Mr Kurublis has the floor now. I'll give you ten minutes with a relative tolerance, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, 'the term was'supported' and'removed'. I sincerely expected that I would have the pleasure of having the Minister of Interior at the first invitation of the Officer of the Vice-President through the parliamentary procedure of questioning, to come here and discuss critical issues relating to the place, issues relating to decentralisation, which is drowning in the responsibilities, duplications and functions that really do not enable it to contribute to the development of the country. I was expecting to discuss, if you would like, the revision of the Constitution in the context of such a question, to put forward a question and listen to opinions. To have a dialogue. To discuss the electoral law, because such issues have also been heard by honourable Members. I also expected to discuss the interoperability of the public databases where EUR 7 billion has been spent since 2000 and the country is at a point where its databases do not talk. You know very well, those who exercise power, what this means, what a delay this means, what an unbearable regime in development, how much tax evasion and tax fraud are done without the possibility of communicating these databases. I expected to discuss the codification of legislation, ladies and gentlemen. Who has prevented this project from being completed so that the codification of this phenomenon of polynomialism, along with the bureaucracy created by the lack of interoperability, can put the country on another path? I also expected to discuss the Code of Administrative Procedure, which tortures civil and state relations, to discuss merit, ladies and gentlemen. I've heard of decency too! Really! And I heard something amazing, Mr President! Honestly amazing! But so much intolerance, so much irritation in Civicism, so embarrassing? My predecessor, the Minister, has decided to do something about which I might personally tell you I might have a different view. He decided not to give in to the temptation to place at the positions of the Secretary-General decentralised administrations - you know very well what role this is - service factors. Tell us, ladies and gentlemen, about this process. Is this procedure objective, that is, by means of a competition of general government directors at the positions of the decentralised administrations? Is that a party rule? Tell us to understand, because here in the conversation words have lost their content. Honestly, the fact is impressive. So you should, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officer - you are the pole against the government, which you may have to govern Greece again, that is within the framework of democracy - to come to the House thinking about why the people sent you to the headquarters of Anti-Population. Unless the people in this place lose their wisdom when they do not vote for us and are wise only when they vote for us. This is a kind of irrationalism that the political system possesses. It is no accident, ladies and gentlemen, because, through this kind of benign opposition, the world is peculiar to the political world, a serious human being is no longer interested in any party - and from your own and others - in dealing with politics. In the end, you know who's staying? The adoption of interests and unproven ones. With these behaviours manifested, only such a future is reserved for the country's political world. And we'll all have a responsibility, everyone in the way he's dealing with. I don't get myself out either. I don't leave anyone out. Our political word must have a measure. And, of course, judging and being very tough. But is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, from a post immediately to bring a matter to Parliament and turn it into court? Are the publications so reliable? And I heard you today amazed - and I am sorry, because I hear people waiting for them to have a measure - to have made the decision that they are guilty. Do you want to go to such a process? If you want, I don't think you'll be helping yourself first. So I think we should get rid of these obsessions, ladies and gentlemen. And we must finally consider all the mistakes, weaknesses and excesses that exist at all. I don't doubt there were. But are we going to go on like this? Do you think that this is how you help a historical party like New Democracy? We understand internal problems. Naturally, it is also a big party to have such problems, and difficulties and weaknesses and personal strategies. However, these cannot be transferred to Parliament. Solve them in this particular area, in a democratic way as you chose to do your election and find a way to communicate after the elections, a way to help and upgrade the political speech in this sacred space. I therefore believe that we have too many and critical issues that we need to discuss. And we must be honest with each other by enforcing the best of ourselves and the possibilities each one of us has and the role of government that the Greek people have given us. When the election time comes, we will also be judged by the Greek people. And if we really do not meet the commitments we have at the end of the four-year period, it will also send us where it needs to, as it has done with all the previous ones. I heard you talk about the parallel program. Ladies and gentlemen, have you seriously objected to the parallel programme? All these provisions, in their overwhelming majority, did they not have a positive sign for society? And you're happy, and you're celebrating? And I'm talking to you about measures such as what the Ministry of Interior had submitted for the luxuries, kindergartens and a series of arrangements that really served the world. Do you think with this sterile opposition anyone wins? Does anyone win why you didn't become involved in the sacred pension business? I tell you guys to tell Chipra what you think. Review him, say what you want. But shouldn't we all be assembling in the pension case? Is it not about the question of the pension of thousands of people who believe in New Democracy and who have supported it? Isn't it about thousands of people from all the other parties? Shouldn't we be overreacting? What do you imagine, that you wouldn't have won politically if you told the Greek people that we have all these objections to Tsipras and Syriza, but on the subject of pensions we are next door, we are assembled? I believe you would have won it, ladies and gentlemen. And I believe that you have lost, because on the altar of micropoliticalism you have not been able to do so, you do not have the political courage to overcome your weaknesses and say, "Yes, we are entangled in this case." And if Tsipras can't make it, Tsipras can take responsibility. Today, if anything happens, you will have a great responsibility because you have not put your back on a matter that you have been responsible for people who have been afflicted. Because they are not only industrialists who vote for the New Democracy, but they are also ordinary people, fighters, bio-palers who fight for their retirement. Pensions - you know that very well and I do not want to go back to this issue - in the last five years they have been cut eleven times. And we must all here together, all together, give this battle to both the institutions and the saints and the demons. That is the reason why we have to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u201	That's last year! Last year!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u202	I didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u203	Last year!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u204	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u205	Keep going, but I've already given you three minutes more. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u206	So I say, ladies and gentlemen, that all the contents of this sloppy and undocumented questioning are the result of the embarrassment of a party looking to find its pace. I am afraid, however, that in this way, all you do is find a credible political reason, as a Reliable Opposition, so that you can really convince the thousands of people who support you as people who choose this political area. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u207	The pain took you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, fifty-one members of the Rafina-Pikermiou. I, of course, see about forty-six fine ladies and four heroes accompanying nice ladies. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I would like a second word to thank the honourable Members who have given me the honour of listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u210	All right, they've heard the thanks. Mr. Flambury has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, a timely question has been tabled that really...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u212	Incubation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u213	...to which data you have based and formulated this question. Because what's in it has nothing to do with the truth. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I have already mentioned several times, and I would expect that the Acoustic Opposition particularly has a behaviour which, at least, does not undermine our political system, does not undermine the government's effort to have a way out of the difficult phase of the Greek society. And, of course, I, and all of SYRIZA, are in a position to accept critical remarks and combats, just - and it makes sense - to the extent that they are based on evidence and not - and here I would like to do one parentheses - on elements based on various mass media groups which, as you know, are also audited for the conformity of those who write and for the references that really do not receive confirmation. I do not want to say that once again the triangle of sin has played its part again, namely that the economic system and the political system have cooperated so that they continue to reproduce a problem which has no content. One question I ask you and you will have to answer is the following: I, in May, submitted for the first time as Minister 'from now on'. Not even the Commission, which would have checked, had no definition of 'possibly'. And three, four days before the elections, various subjects were raised, based on the "subjects" in the newspapers. Wasn't that a preconceived and predetermined choice clearly to hurt me, the SYRIZA and the Prime Minister? And you, unfortunately, stung it, without looking into it, without seeing what the reality is and reproducing it to this day. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I think it's not the best method you use. On the substance of the matter now: I have mentioned 15 times in the media, in Parliament's Chamber, that on the 25th of the month, at night, the Prime Minister is announcing that I will be ministerial. On the 26th of the month I moved, firstly, to leave the Board of Directors, secondly, to deposit my contractor's degree, thirdly, to transfer my shares, clipboard, so that I do not have any shares, i.e. with a private contract, which was ratified by the police department, so that it has power and I quickly made a request for retirement. Where have you found something and continue the story to this day? Secondly, you referred to various things relating to the 1,000 000 and what I did for the PPA. On these issues, I despise my answer. It's not my idiosyncrasy, it's not in my culture to answer for others, I have nothing to do with what happened with Mr. Metropoulou. I neither met him nor saw him nor did I have a chance to speak to any of my colleagues, not only Members of Parliament or candidates, but also to a mere colleague. That is why I am not answering these questions, and I have done well, and I have not answered them in the first place. Finally, as far as what is being said here in your question is concerned, that is why I say that you are not even looking for the evidence. If you were looking for it, you would see that I have tabled the second "outside you". I was sent a letter, as the President said. They said that by a decision of 1 September 2015, when, that is, there was still the old Commission “from where it was,” they recognised that the forms completed by the 30 Members and Ministers for the ‘from now on’ were not accurate. So they made new literature, sent it to us, filled it, and gave it to us. You didn't even notice that, Mr. Augiakis and the others, to see that on 25 September, i.e. three, four days after the election, I went to a notary and did a notarial act following the private contract, so that the whole case could be fully covered. So I say, why are you writing here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u214	How you describe it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u215	Wait till you hear it. Write to your question: It is worth mentioning that even today, namely 17-11-2015, the Minister of State of Flambury still holds shares of "DIATMINS S.A.". On 25-11-2015, when even this was accepted, that is to say, that it was not "legal", that the shares were transferred with a private contract...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u216	It's not legal, of course! We live in another world?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u217	Wait. A notary act took place on 25-11-2015. Why are you lying here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u218	With a private share transfer agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u219	But I'm sorry, aren't you lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u220	Transfer of shares in private contracts?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u221	Excuse me, are you lying on 25-11-2015 that I'm...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u222	Transfer of shares in private contracts?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u223	On November 30th, can you testify to it, so we can see what you got?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u224	Please don't interrupt. You're going to put the questions in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u225	Will you hear what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u226	Are you going to answer what we're asking you? On November 30th, did you get the money, see if it's true, or didn't you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u227	Isn't that what the private contract says?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u228	Don't make fun of us. On 30-11-2015, I've got it here. Did you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u229	After a private contract check...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u230	Keep it up, so people can hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u231	Did you get it, Minister? Did you get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u232	It doesn't cover you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Ausgeakis, you will also speak in your dentistry. You're gonna ask all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u234	When you're done, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u235	Minister, on 30 November he says, not on 30 December.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Georgiadis, nothing is written.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u237	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u238	You'll tell them, that's why I'm telling you. Close, Mr. Flambury.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u239	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u240	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u241	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Georgiadis,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u243	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u244	Minister, if you want the speech later on on on staff, you will take him, but we have interrupted Mr. Flaburakis five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u245	I conclude by saying that on November 17, 2015, you tabled the question and you say that I still own the shares are lies, because on September 25, there is a notary act.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u246	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u247	Identify that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u248	You'll ask them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u249	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Ignace, excuse me, but don't you understand? We'll check this out for the Sworn Accountants Corps.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u251	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Ignace!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u253	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u254	Well, what do you think now? Mr Aygeakis, Mr Georgiadis, will you replace the Corps of the Oath Accountants and the Commission 'wherever you are?' They will be searched by the sworn accountants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u255	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u256	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u257	You don't have to ask them publicly in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u258	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Ignace, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u260	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Ausgarian, do you have the impression that I will let you continue with this for a long time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u262	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Ausgeus, do you have the impression that I will leave you for long? Look out, everybody! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Kyriazidis has the floor as a Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, enough of SYRIZA's moral education courses! The returning Minister, Mr Kourublis, in his very long position, took lessons of discipline in the attitude of the Members of the New Democracy, but also came to his homes in order to give, if you wish, a dimension concerning the family of the New Democracy. This is our case. Of course, it also reflects on the wider political system, but, please, look at your internals. Rule this country, because the country unfortunately fills in a year that is suspended at each level. There's nothing working. And that is not the finding of a Member of Parliament who knows his function. It is a finding of society that he is finally waiting with serious, right steps to rule to feel a security. Unfortunately, no one feels safe and this is your work, your product. In fact, you have repeatedly admitted that the country is in a difficult situation. You are now discovering it very retrospectively. When this was put in place for us, we were subjected to a storm not only to control, but also to injuriousness. We don't want to stay in this attitude, in this behavior. Symbolism contains a certain meaning and content. He can't be with a singleness. He can't be in an article. He can't be in a bill or something instantly. We saw it in every bill. We saw it in your first bill, as far as the humanitarian crisis is concerned. An article about it and the remaining thirty-seven were about how "SYRIZA State" was structured with the abolition of independent authorities, how all - if you like - the prosecution authorities are transferred to one person. The Economic Police, the IAEA, each inspection agency was transferred somewhere specifically in order to be checked. It is not therefore a collective political function in the sense of 'government' or - if you like - of support. Such support cannot be provided. The same happened - because there was talk of this - and the media. Everything was transferred to a government minister, everything. So it is right that many times it comes to the minds of many - and it has been discussed in society all - that we should not lead to a North Korean operation. It is not possible here that democracy has been born to think like this, to behave like this and, on the other hand, not to accept control. You can't be out of control. Because there is - if you want - a previous attitude or your position, we cannot assume that the Left cannot enter a check, that it is out of control. You recently brought us the parallel program and swept back, folding. You accused us of stumbling us. But you're a very good student, and we know how the order came and why there was this folding. But when this matter was being discussed in this House and we objected to the fact that there are huge issues - neither a report from the General Accounting Office nor the Committee on Legal Affairs - you wanted to save and well compact deadlines and legislate. Aren't these issues? And you're talking about a full-scale democracy. Yeah, but your function doesn't show that. And the chairman of the committee, Mr Manios, was also asked: 'Is the draft law urgent, Mr President?' "No, it's not an emergency," he answered. And after a while it became urgent or urgent to coexist with the deadlines, it also saves well. Mr. Mada, you were there. You said it wasn't urgent. And a little later, it became urgent. Because Mr Kourublis was mentioned on this subject, but here in every ministry a committee is being set up or established to monitor everything - in health, in education - because there have been references to a two-minute interview. In an interview of two minutes, scientists, I would say, prestigious international ones are being replaced by people who, in any case, cannot even weigh, approach those people who have also offered to a very large degree of health. Whole hospitals and clinics operate with their own interventions - if you like - with their own knowledge, experience and ability. Of course, as far as you are concerned, Mr Minister, Mr Flambury, specific questions have been raised by my fellow Members. You didn't answer. It is, of course, your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u265	Are the questions related to'subjects'? If it had anything to do with 'possibly you', I answered them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u266	Well, you made a private agreement, you validated the original signature to an Service - its own issue - that does not work for the public. Fine, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u267	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u268	You served with the police?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u269	That's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u270	You can sue the agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u271	Minister, that's not exactly what I said. So I say that you have welcomed the way in which this ratification took place in the way it was done. The man who validated has a responsibility. On the other hand, however, the private agreement, as far as companies, transfers and such matters are concerned, as you can see, immediately leads someone to another thought. From there on, of course, there is the responsibility of the signatory. However, I would like to say that it was specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u272	I didn't understand anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u273	Is there any agreement that says that you have received a sum of one million? Has this been recorded anywhere? Has this been transferred somewhere? These were the questions raised by my colleague, Mr Georgiadis. On the other hand, you say you're a shareholder in the company. But your son's still at the shareholder's company.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u274	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u275	If I'm wrong, state it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u276	Minister, keep your objections. Finally, Mr Kyriazidis, I will give you the floor for three to four minutes to answer. Otherwise, we won't finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say, if there really seems to be a collective function, action, of this country at political level, we should all work that way. The New Democracy, my dear Minister, has paid for this by election on the grounds that, yes, it gives a vote of confidence in order for the country to stay in the eurozone and survive. I saw that you took it very negatively then, as if we adopted what you then had as a prerequisite and the way you institutionalize and legislate. That, Minister, cannot be done with a monotony. As I said before, if you cannot govern, of course, we can help. Let the government resign - there is a way - and lead us to another operation in order to get the country out of the deadlock. We will not, however, be the rectors on a chance basis in order to keep you standing, as the Independent Greeks in particular do. We must assume our responsibilities towards our country, because you have a three-year programme in particular and a specific menu. Whether to put some spices is your issue, but the three-year program is specific. Here, indeed, we need a harmony. However, conscientiousness cannot be one-sided. In order to get out of the deadlock, the country must do what all the other countries in Europe did - Portugal, Spain and Cyprus - where there was a consensus. You're the ones who operate unilaterally. You see, the New Democracy for every positive vote also has a positive vote, which you did not do during the period of government of the country from New Democracy. You didn't even vote for one bill. Unfortunately, we did not see that from you. In any case, you have to withstand control at every level. You cannot deal with an impeccable situation, with arrogance and the New Democracy and its Members and outside Parliament. If you really want this harmony, you should first demonstrate it, because you are the government and the first teachers now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Flamouraris, do you now want to answer or in the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u279	In the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u280	Mr Famelos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, thank you in advance for the concession of time. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in reading the inaccurate and false question asked by the Members of the New Democracy, the first lyrics of Lysia "Supposedly impossible" could come to my mind: "The great multitude of thanks, the parliament, the categorically, has prepared me for this. " Because, ladies and gentlemen, this question really gives us an amazing opportunity to talk about corruption and about what has been going on in the country so far and what is changing. But we must also respond to these. We understand that. The first issue, then, is the issue of the Pappa and Spirtzis, who also entered the paper 'TA NEWS' by Mr Papachristos. What a better answer than Mr Papachristos's own characterization: "Your history, ladies and gentlemen, I have fallen feathers and stories with dragons." Mr. Papachristos himself, restoring the truth to publicity, publishes it. I present for the Minutes of the House the post on 7-12-2015. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Dragons stories you brought to the Greek Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! Why is that? To cover up lies and inadequacies of years. But what else does the topical question say to us? He refers to a public work undertaken by a member of the government - a lie, he was not a member of the government, when the tender was settled - of EUR 3.9 million. New lie! This is the object, no relation to the not yet accomplished, until the SYRIZA Government has taken over. What else exactly does he say to us? He tells us about covert over the issue of the "subjects" Minister for three consecutive years. Two lies! Firstly, there are no three consecutive years in Mr Stathakis' 'from the outset'. And, secondly, what's the cover? Appointment of the control by decision of Parliament to a sworn accountant? Three continuing lies in a timely question of MPs! And what are the New Democracy Members asking at the end: 'Is the government determined to deal with corruption?' We understand. We understand that you have been looking to support and atone against citizens, because you have quite simply maintained, devastated and supported a system of interoperable and corruption over the years. That is why we also have a key priority to clean up this system. That is the mandate of the citizens. We asked for it both in January and September. Because the Left is next to the citizen for over a century through struggles and the moral advantage of the Left is credibility, because it was next to the citizen. Unfortunately, your parties have never stood by the citizen for their own needs, but only next to your own, especially your big ones. And what have we done specifically in the context of this anti-corruption governance? It was therefore founded by the Ministry and the General Secretariat for this purpose. In fact, all the issues of corruption and all the audit services are being coordinated. Two of our commitments have been made. Checks are completed in all unregulated amounts in Greece and abroad and this is done by both the CSTP and the IORP. There is also a mandate for justice to end all these cases. Property and shares are controlled by offshore and of course by private-law legal property. The Bank of Greece is controlled by the Bank of Greece in the media financing and reviewed and changed the entire institutional framework for the licensing of the channels. The Public Administration Inspector General coordinates all control procedures and of course there is now a parliamentary committee of Parliament to control all public procurement. The whole process of public procurement is being completely reformed - so that nothing is hidden - and of course the health system contracts, which doubled the cost for this painful and poor Greece over the past five years. Banks now have to announce all contracts, all loans and deposits, and this has been done with our own recapitalisation law. For the first time, the public has a say and a role in the administration of the banks. Of course, that's all that happened. At the same time, what's going on? There is the Special Control Agency for "outside temperament", which controls all senior civil and private executives, media owners and all persons hiding in offshore companies. The Inclusive Register is being established. Why didn't you introduce it for so many years? We're literally wondering. Of course, the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers is abolished. We asked for it at the Conference of Political Heads. You didn't dare to commit. And obviously we have brought the new bill, which is already in place, for the decommissioning of the public, for evaluation and for a system of democracy and transparency in the public sector. Your problem, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is that we are stirring you into control and legitimacy, and we understand that you do not have what to answer, because otherwise you would not put Parliament down by saying here, in the House, about a report on the MEGA, but you would bring specific things. You would bring all the things that the prosecutor has made, because the prosecutor and the elections have shown that you have lost credibility over society, against the citizen, and you cannot speak of corruption. Why do we have the last eight months in our country? The Bank, a thousand trillion loans to political friends, political parties and the media amounting to 5.5 billion, which have already gone to judicial control. And by the law that you introduced in 2013, you were discharged of the responsibility of the banks for the loans they gave your parties. Lagard list, two years in drawers. As soon as the interrogators went to France for Falciani, 80 million warm money went into state funds. Why didn't you do it all these years? Borge list, Rhineland-Westphalia list. Where were these ten thousand five hundred eighty-eighty depositors with amounts that, from the control we have done in UBS, are between 1.5 million and 12 million? Why did the bilateral meeting with the Swiss refuse your Prime Minister's advisor to pick up the lists of Greeks' statements in Switzerland?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u282	When did this happen? This has been disproved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u283	Equipment, 90 million TOR - M1 hatred. Two million were moved to former defence ministers of the PASOK government. Underwaters that grow, I hated 80 million euros. The indirect funding of the Hellenic FRYS was EUR 15.34 million, condemned by the European Court of Justice and by Greek citizens, unfortunately. The cost of the Greek State was EUR 70 million since the late signing of the Moria Convention. The Hatzigakis scandal, EUR 320 million, which will be EUR 800 million from the European Commission's control. In ‘SIEMENS’ EUR 100 million. How many loans are we looking for now from the canals? The loans received by the media are EUR 808 million and are now under control. Did the ads given by CEDEFOP, about EUR 2 million in your systemic instruments, to make your own information, to support your own policy, were they a pure policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u284	What's the lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u285	So he's a virtual enemy? Are those fake numbers we mentioned here? You do not accept the expression "ethical advantage", Mrs Vulture, because you are simply unknown and incomprehensible the concept of morality in politics...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u286	No, no. We know you well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u287	We also see this from the way in which your internal conflict and the insults for the election of President have been made public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u288	We saw you, and when you sent Plubidis and Belogannis to the squad!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u289	I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. But we're wondering. Is your rabies reaction to the bill to speed up the government's work, which was postponed after Christmas's holiday, due to the fact that we will also review the waste contracts, which you have given to large groups, by privatising waste management at the expense of the citizen throughout Greece? Thank you for the opportunity to present our initiatives on corruption and complexity and the major scandals that have accumulated in our country all these years and are now in the interrogator and judiciary rooms, all due to you and your political partners. You can worry about questioning all the old circuits. Your reaction but above all the citizens' mandate gives us strength. We will continue the unresolved course, which the Prime Minister himself has undertaken, to return the country to a rule of law, to return our country to the right, honesty and merit. And that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u290	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Corruption of policies. By definition, it recommends the abusive peculiarity of the political office. Both parliamentarians and ministers are not beneficiaries of political authority, they are mandated. An order is the people. Politics is an important stage in development. In 2003, the world’s most corrupt country was Denmark. In 2013, when we had no SYRIZA - ANEL government, Greece held the eighty-eighth place. They are, of course, responsible for the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. In the period 2000-2010, about 120 billion euros lost the Greek state because of corruption. In this 2013 list, countries such as Bhutan, Ghana and Rwanda were, in terms of corruption, less corrupt. And Turkey held the fifty-seventh place. And that needs to be considered. Political corruption is a manifestation of political amoralism. The repression of political opponents is not political corruption, but it is political amoralism. The euphemism "constitutional bow" is an amoralistic bow, which attempts and attacks the nationalist power of the place, the Golden Dawn. The Communist Party of Greece, which was used by the amoralist arch and used power then, were used, especially during the period of persecution. It continues, of course, to try to exploit politically, with various childish traits against the Golden Dawn, for Nazism, fascism and anything else. SYRIZA and the New Democracy are competing for what is the least corrupt party, not for what is indestructible. Two lists of names are therefore compared by major reason. The present Minister, Mr Flavouraris, with the case of the company DIAMIS, who, regardless of whether this is a genuine scandal of corruption or not - others will decide - if such phenomena are repeated, will lead to the fragmentation of SYRIZA, which, obviously, you do not want, but others do want to do so. From the list of SYRIZA, we have Mr. Flamouraris, Mr. Stathakis, Mrs. Valavani, Mr. Spirtzi, who, incidentally, expressed deep pain in the sale of airports and tried to entertain this pain of soul with this civil service office - badly meant - together with Mr. Papa. From New Democracy there has been a parade of representatives - of course everyone is absent now, because they do not want to hear the truth - who claim to be indestructible and denounce the corruption conflict. Even though this corruption exists, in the corrupt political system, which has been working historically over the past decades, pre-existing positions have been held by the New Democracy and the PASOK. In Columbia Escobar, Pablo Escobar had announced to politicians and judges that they would either trade or be killed. It is known as the plata o plomo. In Greece businessmen don't work that way. The criminals operate on another verb, with the word 'plata oro', i.e. silver or gold. There is no question, of course, of plomo, which is the lead, meaning killing by shots. Recently, Alekos Alavanos, in which the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, invaded the political life of the place, commenting on the notorious saying "there are money", described SYRIZA as an extreme phenomenon, which took over power by claiming that others are thieves, while they have not yet stolen. Is that still true? I guess not. In any case, Golden Dawn is the only political force, the nationalist power of the country in and out of Parliament, which actively denounces corruption, which is also interdependent with judicial authority. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to remind you that the document relating to a senior prosecutor named by the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, "Panathinaikakis". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here, therefore, it should be stressed that amoralism and corruption at the same time have at the same time been attacking the Golden Dawn. Since some MPs and other political actors deny that they have heard this specific audio document, this infamous audio documento is absolutely true. This conversation has taken place, with the aim of safeguarding rivals of the Golden Dawn Members. It is an example, I repeat, of the association of political forces within this amocratic arc aimed at the only genuine political power in favour of the nation, the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u292	The Communist Party of Greece has not appointed a Parliamentary Representative. Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor from the Democratic Assent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years and today many people have invoked the moral advantage of the Left. I would say to you, of course, that the Left in its time course has a moral advantage. It has the moral advantage of history and its struggles. He has the moral advantage of persecution, exile, displacement, imprisonment. It has the moral advantage stemming from the memory of the tortured and the dead, a memory and a story which, in my opinion, belong to the entire democratic and progressive world of the country. But, from time to time, the current exercise of policy, your own policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government is being interfered. You are political heirs by indivisibleness of this moral advantage and not Catholic or special successors. So you are judged by your political positions and your political attitude to governance and not by your historic payments. That is why those of you who are talking about the moral advantage today confuse the time of politics with the modern political act, since for the latter you are judged and need to see how you manage it and how you do the political act of the Left that you inherited in part. I will tell you that in today's sitting I will not go into the current cases, because I am sure you will find them before you - and we will find them before us - and we will discuss them again. I will not do so above all because I believe that the Greek people are now dizzy to hear about millions of euros right and left and, finally, to deny their hopes every day. But what I am going to do is give ten examples of our own anti-corruption policy in this country, and I will conclude with one question, which I think needs to be answered. I think these examples differentiate our own policy from yours, our own political act to overthrow regiment practices, which are so easy today to adopt, now that you have been practicing governance for a long time. Of the ten examples, the first example is that in 2010 Greece acquired for the first time an integrated electronic basis for monitoring the action of the public administration, the "DIAGYIA" programme established by the n. 3861/2010 and it is the most important, in my view, tool to ensure full transparency and accountability in the day-to-day functioning of the state institutions. The second example. In 2009, a ministerial e-government portfolio was established as an individual expression of the overall effort to reform public administration. With the n. The legislative framework for the implementation and promotion of the reform of the public administration in Greece has been established. With the n. The first electronic register of public contracts was introduced in Greece - and this is essential - for the execution of works, for the supply of goods or for the provision of services to the public sector at all levels of their award and performance. And this measure to date has yielded. It has done so because the Central Electronics Register requires transparency and the smooth functioning of competition with significant benefits in terms of the cost of supply of goods and services by the State. That is where we are talking about. The fourth example is the n. Council Regulation (EC) No 4013/2011 establishing the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts, which is intended to develop and promote a national strategy of policy and action in the field of public procurement. The fifth example is the n. 3892/2010, which implemented the e-prescription system, a critical health and social security reform which exploits new technologies as a means of modernising health services. Six examples. It was the PASOK governments who promoted the new public recruitment regime with clear and objective criteria. With the n. 3812/2009 extended the application of the famous Pepongi Law, so that all recruitments to the public services and to almost all public enterprises and bodies were carried out by the Supreme Staff Selection Council, the AACC, in a transparent manner, through pan-Hellenic tenders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Seventh example. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o The recruitment of teachers to primary and secondary education as well as nursing staff to the National Health System was entirely the responsibility of the IASA. Eighth example. In the need to deny the inequalities resulting from the application of Article 86 of the Constitution for Criminal Liability of Ministers, it was the Government of PASOK which proceeded with Mr. 3961/2011 in a series of important interventions, including the abolition of exceptionally short limitations, the upgrading of the role of judicial officers in the procedure, and the introduction of the possibility of imposing restrictive confiscation conditions or of binding any kind of account. That is what we are talking about today. The ninth example is n. 4022/2011 speeding up the criminal prosecution and judicial proceedings for felonies committed by Ministers, State Secretarys, MPs, General and Special Secretarys of Ministries, Governors of Public Organisations, as well as standing mono-faces of local government bodies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The PASOK Government also set up the special posts of prosecutors of financial crime with Mr. It is also a matter of concern to the Council of Ministers of the European Union and to the Commission of the European Communities and to the Member States of the European Union. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Council Regulation (EEC) No 3932/2011 on the Commission to combat money laundering which has finally evolved into an independent authority. Now I'm going to ask the question. Do you want to look at these ten examples I gave you? Which of these measures have you voted on? Which of these measures have you supported? And which of these measures would you have proposed if you were a government? That is where the moral advantage lies, in political action. And this political act, you disprove it for the Greek people every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Harris Theocharis, Parliamentary Representative from the River, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about corruption. In fact, we see ministers, the circles of Mr Karamanlis, who are in fact defending the environment of the new Prime Minister. So, in practice today and in this debate, we see the thread that unites the relocation. We are talking about corruption and we are listening to the Minister in a previous question to tell us that the framework for the return of VAT is complex and difficult, but it is necessary for the public interest and at the same time to tell us in the same spirit that he does not agree with the Minister for Acceleration. But the framework, complexity and bureaucracy that is being defended is the one that gives rise to the need for the telephone to the Minister, in order to speed up the return of VAT. I fear that there is a political system that has decided that the country should not go forward so that it can have the hope of gaining something from governance. We are talking about corruption and we are listening today to Mr Voutsi threatening to remove responsibilities from the PSE if there is no consensus on the new administrations. And will they be given where? A minister? Full responsibility for the media? If this isn't corruption, what is it? Of course, the media have "flyed", they have already gone to Cyprus. I imagine you have realised that you cannot regulate any television scenery, because everyone has already moved to Cyprus and is not within your jurisdiction. We've done so well! "Ladies and ladies, the few months of left-wing governance have shown that it is not a one-way, devastated power from its frequent use and abuse. That there is another model of power, with another morality, other practices, other goals. That there is no historical need for governance to reproduce itself and all the paths of the country. It can produce democracy, transparency and justice, based on the people and supporting the people," he said in an election last September, Mr Tsipras. How hollow all this sounds! Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, sound hollow in a people seated financially and morally, a people who have been asking for the long-awaited cleansing, which all the previous ones have promised and no one has given. One hundred and forty more than the big and smallest scandals we measured from previous governments and how many could not be measured, because they have never been denounced. With few exceptions, the general sense of the Greek people, the Greek citizens, is that they have remained unpunished. To this people you have come and promised that you are incorrupt, that you have the moral advantage of the Left, that perhaps the mythical advantage of the Left, the mythical advantage and the post-multiple advantage, which we see is lost, that you will not repeat any of this. Let's see what we've counted in these eleven months of your government. Why don't you tell us that government is only three months old! You've been ruling almost a year and the first eight months were not a game to learn how to rule! The Greek people paid for it on their back. So what we measured was the flight of funds abroad from relatives of Ministers some twenty-four hours before the imposition of capital controls, ministers of offshore, ministries of ministries, ministers of millionaires who forget to say one of their millions. And of course it's not just cases with a name. You're talking about worthlessness! Hypocrisy is too much! It is a scandal that is the way to cover government positions from day to day. Is it true, as they say, that you ask people who appoint 50% of their salary for the party? Is that true? Is it true that a journalist on the SYRIZA went to the ELPE press office and took all the funding from the marketing director and now controls them with regard to the flow of money? Is this the case? It is also a scandal that appointments will only be based on party criteria. I give you an example. A three-fifth-year-old at ENTERPRISE GREECE is hereby appointed as CEO. Listen to CV: SYRIZA Stateman. He was involved in sport and especially basketball. He studied chemistry. Active in the student movement and integrated into SYRIZA youth. Two years he took theatre lessons and participated in performances. With this CV, it supports exports and investments in our country. That's how you operate. Scandal the expulsion of the hospital commanders, some of them on the phone, when they get money for the hospital abroad, asked for donations. Scandal or legalization within three hours on issues that change eleven million lives. Scandal the resignations of universities by the service councils, people renowned worldwide. It is a scandal that the money given for equipment is being cut off by social policy. A scandal for the posters, who in the programme statements in January, told us that you would only have six hundred eighty for thousands of the Government of New Democracy - PASOK. Now, in September, nine hundred and fifty-seven poster, according to census figures, the figures now are about a thousand eight hundred fourteen in November, doubling in two months. You forgot everything you said! Mr President, our point is not whether these people are guilty or innocent, with all that I hear. We're not a court of law here. I wish they could prove innocent. The outrageous thing is that while everything collapses, you still work on the most famous moral advantage on the Left, as an opportunity to do nothing, not to act. I told you this from the Step last May. The answer to the lack of institutions is not the invoicing of the honesty of people. Institutions need to. This attitude is a straightforward continuation of the post-population culture and, in any case, of the last governments and is extremely dangerous. The biggest scandal of all is lack of strategy, lack of will to act and rule. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude with some positive things, some proposals. I've already made suggestions for the ten axes out of the crisis. We must immediately start from the institutions. The law must be respected. A constitution, a direct and effective separation of powers. Not in the riding of justice, the last refuge of the weak. Not in the disciplinary review of prosecutors and judges with only one signature, as you have coercively been trying to spend the last few days in the draft law on the cohabitation agreement. Not in constitutional coups, then. Yes, to respect the constitution, which is being destroyed every day. Yes to respect for justice and its separation from executive authority. Yes to self - respect for justice, for its prestige is preserved by the decisions it makes. Yes to transparency and ongoing control. Your corruption and the tolerance you display in corruption prove that you are the last pillar of post-population. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You're not government. In fact, you are a job office. The country will only be saved if you leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u296	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we see the seats of this House empty, and an important issue is being discussed. I'm sure I won't eat all the time. Because I am a practical man, 'one and one do two', as far as the question itself is concerned, I regard it as non-generating. There is no credibility anymore in the question, both from Mr Papachristou's butchers and from the objective issue, which will be resolved by the Commission 'from now on'. So there is no objective reason for the question to be asked and for political reasons, and it seems that he has been tabled for political reasons for the likers and friends, if you wish, of the presidency of the New Democracy, to take some television time from the House. There was no point in today's question. I have once again told my previous suggestion that the media together with the political parties have collaborated and collated and arrested the corpse of Greek democracy. I've made a suggestion. I don't know if it's going to be discussed at some point. I do not know exactly how we should do this, but we should legislate on the publication of the word'subjects' of journalists, who, in their synergy and conspiracy - and I am not afraid of the words, of the words, of them in the House, to be written in the Minutes - have politically affected the Greek system and democracy, the most often negative, both in their own interests, both newspapers and staff. These are all going to be investigated sometime, but they're not here. From there on, when we are talking about corruption, if we have caught in the last forty years with a quick regression, we will remember very large cases and very large issues, which have been judged by many of them in Greek courts, with convictions and imprisonment by the two parties of the New Democracy and PASOK, which have ruled after the Medipation to 80% and 90% of the political time. The imprisonment of politicians and people associated with these two parties is objectively proof of the mistake, the malicious act, which, once it was afflicted, the court came and punished them. This is no time, I think, today to revert to the past. I would also like to ask the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK - who like to make a policy - for there to be political - because, unfortunately, there are no political issues at this time, not today, which are not even raised as issues to discuss, because they have no basis - to be a little more prudent. I would like us to have objective issues to talk about a real crisis on real events. And don't be substituting, if you want, principles. I have heard a debate about the independent authorities. Here, let us say that the independent authorities - Mr. Theocharis was also in Essodos, after Mrs. Savvaidou or ELSTAT of Mr. Georgios or the PSE or all the other independent authorities - have well or poorly "bad" the Greek system some on the economic side, some on the political side. It was unacceptable to have 'extended' administrations - forgive me the expression - in the PSE and continue to govern and politically affect the system. Because we saw the fines put on journalists, on channels, on people who did not objectively intend to harm someone, but yet the ERR did fines that were unbearable. There too, his role needs to be investigated, whether repeatedly unbearable fines in the media were an attempt to suffice or manipulate. The moral advantage is neither left nor right. Moral advantage must be given to all of us MPs against our voters, against democracy and against the country, which has passed the millions, and I think it is based on our backs, our hands and our minds to be useful and to take her back to the people of this country. There have been competitions in this country and it is unacceptable how they have been made. Money has been found in political accounts, people have been in prison, they have come out with approvals of disability councils, which are in crisis if so, they have become illegal recruitments, they have become illegal redundancies. All this is the name of corruption. We'll have to solve it from now on. I would not like to say that I am on the side of morals or immorals, of good or bad. We have to be on the side of those who are useful and honest. When there's a mistake, we should recognize it. For me, as a man and as a politician, the Opposition, through Mr. Ausgeakis, could today say: “Okay, we made a mistake. It was not so because there were no 50 grand.’ The other two cases are judged by the "outside" of the House. There was no need for all this suffering, without any substance and without any effect. We should look from now on, gladly, to check SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks in the implementation of the budget, in the programme we are tabling, in the ideas that we are putting forward, rather than just creating political impressions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u298	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Leventis's President will speak. You have the floor, Mr President, for eight minutes, because as President you have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. There's only one woman. It's okay. That's enough of the species! Today the question that has obviously been asked concerns corruption. But corruption is a lot of things. It is not just what the New Democracy means. In this place corruption is too many things. I guess I'm looking to find out what's not corruption. This is the kind to seek, because everything is corrupted. And in the many years of the House, the people have linked them all to corruption. Transactions, withdrawals from the parties, independences, all this people think they have been made under redemption. No one believes that when a Member of Parliament leaves, he leaves for ideological purposes. Usually corruption-related. And the people are not wrong in their sensory. Now to the question why the people are voting for themselves again, the answer is because they are trapped. The people are trapped. We've got a lot of tools. We've got polls that when they say someone's first, everyone wants to be with the first person if they're gonna be appointed somewhere. We've got stuff like that. You see, for example, the PASOK, which was in 45% and has now gone to 4%, and now the whole T-shirt went to SYRIZA. Did he go because he loved SYRIZA? Oh, no. Considers SYRIZA is a larger party and can appoint and protect from all bad weather. Because all the civil servants in this place want protection from bad weather, so they can have fun and affliction. I was disappointed next time when the Prime Minister speaking to journalists said that in the nine points I have sent to them, he sees that it is difficult to implement the issue of slow pay. Where is the difficulty? How has all of Europe found the slow-wages and exiled them from the public and the Prime Minister finds it hard to find the slow-wages? Because, obviously, he wants to protect them. That's how I feel. It's hard, like, to go to the Municipality of Athenians and see who they work or who are lazy and they don't go at all and the wages go home? Is it hard to find this in a TEC? It's not difficult if you're willing. But when you don't have a will and you protect all this rot, and you even think that your voters are your capital, then, of course, it's very difficult. So we have now reached the point where we are discussing Mr Flavouraris's'savings', that is to say, whether Mr Flavouraris in time, as the law imposed, made transfers of his shares. Is that the point? The question is whether Mr Flamouraris had them correctly or whether he would have paid the public. Turning to New Democracy, I say we're chasing Flambury, not because he stole or because he did something bad, but why he forgot to make a statement for a number of reasons. Although negligence in a public man is a bad one, it is not bad for us to do it for days and days all televisions to deal with it. I don't want to protect the Flambour. But the stealing must be hunted and not negligence. Not that the other guy forgot. I also consider the law that punishes negligence so severely. It was necessary for the control of ‘from the outset’ to enter the substance. If you're right, you have something, not if you forgot. For example, Stathakis appeared and said he had thirty - nine writings. Maybe he accidentally wrote thirty-seven. Are we gonna hang him? Are these things to base a serious party like New Democracy on its counterpopulation? Because if we start waiting when you forgot something, so I can find you around the corner, then political life will go to an anthropophasis. Is that what we want? I hope there are forces that want seriousness and substance. Now I come back to the issue of universality these two, three minutes. Please agree with the opinion on universality. I don't do it to get Tsipras out. Besides, when I get Tsipras out, the Right won't come or I won't come. Please agree with this view, because that is where things are being driven. With what needs to be done at work - because everyone is talking about farmers and insurance - the government will be more difficult. In Europe's labour market, this concept applies: we must not protect the rights of those who are in the labour market, but we must above all facilitate the introduction of the unemployed into the labour market and that is where labour laws need to be flexible. So there, SYRIZA will have a lot of trial, because he will tear down everything he said about protectionism and all the trade unionists he had accepted, that they have a great role to play, etc. This is where SYRIZA will be completely undone and will become a right-wing party. In view of the storm that comes, then, it is an interest to form a universal government. I'm saying, to hear from Mr. Flambury, who is a man of the street. He was my mechanic colleague. He went into politics slowly because he obviously never wanted to get in - so I feel it - and he came in because of his personal friendship with the Prime Minister. But he's a serious man. Because he has influence over Tsipras, please warmly. It is not impossible for the Prime Minister to resign in favour of forming a universal. It's a sense of bravery. Don't look at it as a weakness. Tsipras is young and can become Prime Minister after five years, when we'll be out of the memorial if he's worthy. He's got the time. If it was me who was sixty-four, I would say that I cannot afford to be my seventy-fifth Prime Minister. But Tsipras has it. Don't worry! Above all, we have to put the country in place. Above all in this place we must put the country and not the chair! If historically Tsipras commits the mistake of sitting in the chair plunged and indifferent to what I say to him, then the time will come when he will cry and write negatively and burn and whatever future he has. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And what I'm proposing is to build a government to convince outwards. Here in Germany, without having been bankrupt, without having anything, they made the big coalition. That's where they found contact channels? What do we miss here? Are we disabled or do we love chairs too much? I insist on that. And don't you tell me that you love Tsipra more than I do. Because when I was with the partner's father, he hadn't been born yet. His mother was pregnant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr Leventis. We shall now proceed to the seconds of the honourable Member. Mr. Eleftherios Aggenakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u301	I will need your tolerance, Mr President, because while my name has been mentioned many times, I have not asked for the floor on staff, wanting to do one and the other, my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u302	There will be a relative tolerance, but not terrible things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u303	No, that's terrible. I respect the rules. I'll start with my sympathy, Mr. Papagelopoulos. He said earlier: 'I saw very little to do with today's question'. He probably didn't watch. Indeed, he said about attempting a left-hand historic trial. They reported, he says, various faces of malt - melt. In fact, in the case of Spirtzi - Papa, he says the Papachristos found himself with a new post. So it's all right. Mr Stathakis said: "The statements by Mr Stathakis are dealt with in the committee responsible. In 2012, he hadn't dealt with politics. So what are you worried about? There's no question of enrichment. So it's all good.' For Mr. Koronakis again, he said he served. So it's all right. Mr Flamouraris said this: 'There was no complaint from anyone'. The entity, the region that has taken over the contraction of EUR 3.9 million, does not belong to SYRIZA. "Incorrect transfer, accept it," said Papagelopoulos. "To accept that there should be a symbolic act. I'll answer you after the laws, not assumptions. Okay, we're loose, let's take some other things. You are not bored'. No, it's not like that. There are laws of the state. If you want to change them, we're here to talk about it. In fact, Mr Papagelopoulos asks: 'What offence, in fact, did Mr Flabouraris commit?'. Mr. Papagelopoulos was quite provocative. I would say, perhaps, that he was not at all informative, nor as a former judge, nor, however, as a Minister of Justice. As a judge to remind us that he passed through the entire political spectrum: from the chosen government of Karamanlis in 2006, the New Democracy, in fact, then placed in the NSA, then passed to the Left, in effect redeeming the unspeakable phrase: "Tsipras is the new nationarch". That's what Mr. Papagelopoulos said. Now we're going to the point. Now let's go to our case. Dear Mr Papagelopoulos, the topical question wanted to give rise today to a debate on corruption and the positions of the parties, how we understand and how we will begin an open, productive and essential debate. We've been through this. You probably didn't follow them. No problem. I am pleased that you are now in the Chamber, we hear something about the substance of it, too. For the corruption case, if you want to catch one - one case, this will happen in the courtroom or separately in a debate on each case separately. Corruption is in SYRIZA and the government's DNA. It starts from the Prime Minister himself by deceiving the Greek people on dozens of issues, by deceiving social groups, with dozens of promises a few weeks ago and today it reaches a case like Flamour and so many others, trying to cover them like - as. And you just come to give some gold dust, cover the facts as a former judge, as a former right and today as a new leftist and say 'all good'. It's what Papagelopoulos says. But it's not like that. There are laws to which you know them better than I do. In the case of Spirtzi - Poppa, I will only say that you are in a hurry to draw conclusions on "SYRIZOKEP" that might have been relocated, but the case has not been closed. We follow her very well, very wisely, very well measured and without rush. Besides, we don't want the government to fall. As far as Mr Flavouraris' case is concerned, I have listened very carefully, almost with regret, because it is incomprehensible that we see a Minister of State having before the Member of Parliament, telling him concrete evidence, and that he does not listen. Mr. Flambury, according to n. 3310/2005 - Mr Papagelopoulos, I am saying for a law, I am not saying for speculation or a script - transfers of shares to undertakings that have transactions with the public must be made exclusively by a notary document and not by a private contract, which only bears the stamp of a police officer for the authenticity of the signature. As indicated, ‘the notarial type shall be described regardless of the place where it is established, on the grounds of nullity’. In accordance with the provisions of Article 180 of the Treaty, null and void legal act is to be regarded as having never been adopted. This means that the shareholder is retained at 50% by Mr Flavouraris in this case. Mr Flamouraris said tens of times: 'the private agreement, the private agreement'. You heard. We all heard that. Mr Flamouraris, let's assume that we accept - which we do not accept, because the law is law - the private agreement for which you are very comfortable, and you and the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister and the Members of SYRIZA that, since we have a private contract, what are you eating? But, very well, my colleague and dear friend, Adonis Georgiades, noted - something you did not answer, avoided dozens of times to answer - that the first instalment of the price, namely EUR 100,000, has to be paid on November 30 - November, Mr Papagelopoulos, not December, that you said before, I imagine - of 2015. Have this money been paid? And if so, is there a depositor or retrospectively you came with an act of notation to change the dates and anyway, as it serves you and as you understand? It's not like that. The law is a law, which you know about him, Mr. Papagelopoulos. So there's no rough transfer you said before. You do not appreciate the law during your service during your debate, depending on which point or in which party, in which political area you belong, Minister, of justice. Now in this respect, Mr. Flambury, with the regulation of debts in the Municipality of Aegina, you have overcome it as if it were not a fact. I don't understand. Aren't these signs touching you, the facts? It's evidence they've seen the light of publicity. I talked about it. There was an answer from the mayor. What do you answer for that? On the one hand you have a million waiting to collect, because you transferred, as you transferred the shares on the other...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u304	The mayor didn't answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u305	Don't interrupt me. Then you'll take the floor. Don't raise your pressure! Slow down! And immediately afterwards you come to say 'I don't answer these little ones'. Dear Mr Papagelopoulos, you said something terrible before, that the Flabourari case has not been dealt with by anyone. There was no complaint from anyone. You're indiscreet! You said that before. I would like to inform you that the second minority of the competition was brought to justice, because there is also an issue with the insurance information of Mr Flavouraris's company at that time. Please, very much, let us know about this. And because, as Minister of Justice, you must know all about it or at least learn it before you go into this Chamber, I ask you to check and evaluate this element for which no debate has taken place. There was therefore a auction of EUR 3.9 million from the Peloponnese Region, which came to Mr. Flamourari's company. And we all know who we are in the technical sector, that the transfer of shares of anonymous companies is not done with a private contract in any police department. There is a law provided for in this procedure. And no, don't move your hand, Mr. Flambury. You don't talk to any kids. You're in Parliament. Don't move your hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u306	I'm just writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u307	Respect both the space and the speaker and the party I represent, Mr Flamourari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u308	I'm writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u309	What are you talking about? What are you? Prosecutor? Do you remember what you did half an hour ago underneath?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u310	Please. Please. The moral advantage of the Left has lost it. And the conclusion of today's debate is, I think, that of all political wings, good intentions have been heard, that there is good intentions - to try and get things together. Because erosion is progressing very quickly not only in Flavour, not only in Stadia, not only in Marda, not only in Mama Konstantopoulou, not only in Varoufakis, but also in dozens of other cases where you have chosen in opaque procedures - such as Mr Dourou's partner - who dedicate the public sector, the positions of the public sector and which, in a way, I would say, incomprehensibly unthinkable for other periods that you have been a Civic Civilisation, exercise public administration first. We are asking you to have a public debate revival and to make a contribution - if you like, of course - to the fight against corruption and to the treatment of this gangrene that has been well held for many years in public life. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr. Ausgeakis. The second honourable Member, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u312	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Flambury, I have to tell you very sincerely that you have not responded to anything. If you are in fact in love with your party and with the Prime Minister, you must resign now before today's meeting is over. The reason why you need to resign is because whatever Mr Famelos says - which has been bent on the head - only shame you give SYRIZA what you have said today. And I get it a little bit if you didn't get it. Two streets have life: Or Mr. Flampourris tells the truth about the private contract or is lying. If he's lying like I personally believe, but I'm not a judge...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u313	As you are accustomed to always doing in politics!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u314	Now you guys talk about withdrawal last night of the bill that the troika asked you for for lies? A little bite!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u315	He didn't retire.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u316	You've got tsipras, you don't have a tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u317	This is where we'll be at 10:00. Let's see if you can handle the vote. With a low head, you'll vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u318	That's all. Don't interrupt me. Mr President, please keep my time. So listen now, Mr. Flambury. Either it's true the private contract or it's false. I don't go into law, voidity. That will be explained by Mr. Papagelopoulos. Let's actually go. If they are false, you should already have been prosecuted of a felony. If it is true, you must present the depository of EUR 100,000 on 30 November. Because I cannot accept that a left-wing minister has no opportunity to present the depository to us. That's all the time we've told you. One of your partners had sent you to the bank, you'd have brought the depository. If you do not want to testify, it is compulsory for the minister to ask you both institutionally and formally. Because if you don't have the depository - I repeat - of 100,000, then the contract is false. And if the contract is false, you have to go to jail. So either one goes with the other. If it's true now and you have the depository - which I believe you didn't, because if you had it, would you have brought it - then why did you go to the Municipality of Aegina to delete your money? You said you were going to the mayor of Aegina. Do you know what the mayor of Aegina answered? Don't move your head. He replied that we are doing a proper procedure and when citizens - he says - say weaknesses in payment, we are erasing. Have you received a million euros and declared inability to pay for your pool? Excuse me, you left-wing MPs, Mr. Famelos, the elite, how does he see this? Does he see social law, Mr. Famelle, now the honest Mr. Flambury, who will take one million to go and use the law for the poor to erase the money for his pool?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u319	You don't even know my last name!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u320	Nice lefters are you. You're left-hand lasop type. You're the same! That's why he's your representative! Nice Lefters!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u321	That's why you play theatre because you have elections tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u322	Will you answer the substance? Will you answer the substance, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u323	For the election, you're doing everything. Theatre for the elections you play. Theater!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u324	Will you answer the substance? Is this nice with a million to erase the fine? Is it nice?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u325	You're playing theatre.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u326	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u327	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u328	Play theatre to pick up some pins!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u329	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u330	Now let's go to Mr. Papagelopoulos. Mr. Papagelopoulos, if I may be wrong, I'd like to apologize to you. My explosion was about the date. The date, as you understand it as a judge, is not indifferent. It's another date for it to be December 30, as you obviously said wrong, I'm not saying intentionally, so he would have had time to make a virtual depository by the day after tomorrow, and then it would have been 30 November that he couldn't fix it. Because, I repeat, your duty is not to protect your fellow minister in the government, but to control him and to prosecute him if he has lied. This is the task at home and at the Constitution. So you must be more interested than I am if it is November 30 or December 30. However, I must also have one answer - you will allow me - on personal grounds. You have told me that you have known the party long ago, before me, and that it has a culture of consensus, or that is how I understood it. First of all, you don't know when I'm on the party. You probably know the time when I was at the Orthodox Alert, when I left the party. But assuming what you're saying is true, that you know the party beforehand, that is, you were in New Democracy older than me, and now you're in SYRIZA, what would that say? As I was at the Orthodox Alert, you are now at the SYRIZA. Only the People's Orthodox Alert was a division of the New Democracy. It was right, it wasn't left. Because it's different to come from New Democracy to LAOS - the party itself is - and other than New Democracy to SYRIZA. So now I'm a little obscure, Minister. You understand that. But I'm going to the point of the argument now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u331	Just complete relatively soon, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u332	You are saying that our New Democracy prolongation has a culture of consensus. With you. What are you doing with SYRIZA then? Do you know what SYRIZA has been telling us here all these years? German germans, pilgrims, mercanisers. You who are a conscientious fan, what do you do with those who call us germans, pilgrims, mercanists, traitors? That's what they said in the House before they took power and signed the memorandum or didn't you know it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Georgiades, if you're kind, finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u334	So for you two streets have life, Minister. Either you like consensus and then you can't be with SYRIZA because he taught division and charges, or you don't like consent, so don't give me any kind of suggestions. I'm telling you with respect. Do you see that if we look at everything with logic, everything becomes clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u335	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u336	I'm closing, Mr. President. So leave the suggestions to me and check on the Minister next to you, because it is a very serious matter if Mr. Flamouraris has made a false statement 'from now on'. Not 'from the point of view', but - and the substance - and from the point of view - to become Minister. And you know what's even worse? Here's the worst thing for me to do. That Mr. Tsipras covered him in the election, saying: "I am covered by Mr. Flamburari's explanations, when we were asking him to testify to his election "subjects" to see if he had submitted this private contract to his "subjects". And as proved subsequently, he had not been deposited with his "subjects" and it was complementary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u338	So, Mr Papagelopoulos, for your personal consistency you have to consider it. Because if Mr. Flamburis has finally lied, he has lied to Mr. Tsipras for covering him, I don't suppose you will insist on your statement that he is a new nation's ruler if he has said such a lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr Constantine Vlassis has the floor for his denology for three minutes. Please do not more than double the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if a good thing has come out of the debate today, we have finally heard that SYRIZA is talking about dialogue. And, of course, that was also heard by your Prime Minister's lips a few days ago about the culture of dialogue. He didn't just talk about dialogue. Just know that people see and know, and if necessary, they learn. He may have a short memory, but when we are to remind him, he sees it, he learns it at the end. And no one forgets what the attitude you have taken in all previous years as Opposition has been. I'm glad I heard before the Minister, Mr. Kurubli, talking about dignity. Suddenly, Mr. Kourublis forgot how many years he was in PASOK. As long as it was the PASOK government, where Mr. Kourublis was one of his executives of importance, he said the same thing. He was talking about integrity again. And all of you remember what you said back then. Now Mr. Kourublis comes back to talk about the same thing again. I'm sorry, but today I have heard nothing, Mr. Ministers and Mr. Papagelopoulos, about respecting your history. Today you have not entered into the substance of the matter at all. You have not responded to any of the things we have said, even Mr Flamouraris, the otherwise truly sympathetic, Mr Flamouraris. Mr. Flambury, I asked you one thing. The company, which you were a major shareholder, took 3.9 million from the Peloponnese Region. I didn't ask you any more. My colleagues have said it most. I asked you: did you know the Peloponnese Regional Director, Mr. Tatolis? Have you ever talked?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u342	You didn't answer me. You didn't answer me at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u343	No, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u344	If you want, then you will speak, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u345	No, you didn't answer at all and it's all in the Minutes. All of this is written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u346	...the man is a New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u347	I asked if you had any communication between you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u348	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. Vlasis, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u349	But the Minister interrupted me. I think that from today's debate all that is needed is that the Minutes of this debate are given to the world. By itself, people understand that you have not responded to anything today. I'm sorry! I hope, therefore, that the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister themselves will remember that the only dispute law of 2015 belongs to the Government of Karamanlis. Did we do a little bit, little? I agree. Let's do more. At last, put an end to the plausibility, put an end to the transaction. And you know one thing: We here are, to watch, smell and bring everything to light. Why, you know, pure sky lightnings aren't afraid. And every suspect and dark will bring it forward. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll close my speech with one thing. Know that in ancient Greece there was and operated the pair of hybrids and nemesis. The first part of you have taken it fully into consideration, the question of hybridity. Here comes the second part, the nemesis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr. Vlassi. Mrs Sophia Vulture has the floor for three minutes, so that she can answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to talk about what you have said in defence of your fellow ministers. You, Mr Papagelopoulos, are choosing the way your political behaviour is and of course you are judged of it. However, as you have recently said and said so again, and we have seen here today Ministers of Government making an effort to intervene in the interior of New Democracy in view of Sunday's election, I must answer some answers. You said that the New Democracy was always an extravagance of measure and moderation. Yes, but this always characterizes our prolongation in its political behavior toward the people, who has always made sure that he does not foment passions and hatred. As far as her politicians are concerned, our prolongation has always been cruel. I stop and wait, because I want Mr. Papagelopoulos to hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u352	I listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u353	I don't see that. Again, our prolongation is the measure and modesty in terms of its political behaviour towards the people. When he has the political adversary, our protracting becomes as hard as he needs to, again, defend the people. And you know why we've always been so hard on her political opponents? Because our prolongation, the New Democracy, has always been an extrapolation of truth rather than a lie. Our Prime Ministers, Mr. Papagelopoulos, were losing because of the lie. They were lost from lying, from "the money is there". With regard to the folk-ministers, who are also listening to you and you said this today, I have to say this to you: who really has been a folklore Prime Minister, let history be judged and do not compare things unparalleled. Can he at the same time be a folklore, and the one who's telling the truth and the one who's lying? How do you put them in the same bag? How do you put a Prime Minister in the same bag, for example, who lost from the "money exist" with a Prime Minister who won because he said "money exist"? And you're not telling me anything else? Is that a folklore vote over and over? Is that the criterion? Then Deliyannis must have been very folklore. He won in 1885, saying he'll cut all the taxes. It was voted again and again until the bankruptcy of 1893 and left in 1897 when the Turks arrived outside Lamia. And he, with so many times that he was voted on, could have been folklore. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done with this. I want to tell you this: I want you to stop comparing - I say it again - disparate faces. And I recommend that you review your view on folklore Prime Ministers, because we do not accept that our Prime Ministers, who have served the truth and who have fallen because of the lies, will enter the same basket as Prime Ministers, who have not only told lies to the people, continue today, telling lies and saying that they have a parallel programme and that they will bring it after holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mrs Sophia Vultusis. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u355	I would like to point out that today's debate was informative. It has indeed been demonstrated by the position of all wings, other than the New Democracy, that the topical question is unfounded. I simply think that the New Democracy would not insist on this timely question if it were not two days before the election and election of the President of New Democracy. He would really have seen the evidence, which is firm and he would have taken that question back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u356	Please, just be quiet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u357	So what I want to say for the third, fourth time, is that I want to refer the representatives of the New Democracy to seek or wait for the Commission's findings 'from now on' to confirm what I am saying. In conclusion, I would like to point out and stress that you need to know and know that whatever effort you can make, the Greek people know that corruption, scandals and that history in Greece has started and inclined through your own government mandates. So really the effort that is being made to balance some things, not only is it not real, but from the Greek people, as you know, rejected. I am also presenting a memorandum on the Minutes, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u358	Something you forgot to answer, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Minister Flambury. The floor is held by the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Dimitris Papagelopoulos for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, towards the end of the debate, the arrows turned on me for personal reasons. For my political wandering. That's how I heard. Except I never wandered politically. I have never been a member of the New Democracy, nor am I now a SYRIZA member. Others are wandering. Don't start looking for them who's changed parties. But I said, because I am a fan of consensus and mild dialogue, that I would not divert myself into personal attacks. Let us start with this: although Mr Theocharis is not here, I must answer him because of my old capacity. He said he's exorbitant in giving disciplinary authority to a person, etc. Because I appreciate Mr. Theocharis and he has a mild speech, I want him to be informed - and I will call him in private to tell him - that he has been misinformed. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in Article 49(d) of the Rules of Procedure, both Judges and Advocates-General are to be exercised until now by the Prosecutor of the Ice Board. I repeat, both the prosecutors and the judges. What do we do? We give the same rights to the President of the Ice Bay. We are also arming all the presidents of the Supreme Courts with disciplinary authority. This is a restoration to equality and to ensure the independence of justice. All the others are misinformation and horror of some circles to remain uncontrolled. The gentlemen who attacked me are gone and I can't answer them. But I will say the following about restoring the truth: so I said that I was never a member of the New Democracy, and I am therefore not a wanderer. I am loyal to my principles, I am loyal to the principles of democracy, to the principles of independence of justice and I have not moved at all. Others have moved in recent years. Now, I have to explain the attack I took: this has happened because I said good words about the Prime Minister, that he may be the new nation's ruler on the Left. However, this, Mr Augiakis, followed the award of a government position. I didn't give it as an antidote. Because that's what you said, I bought my place. I would remind you that Mr Tsipras entrusted me with the duties of the State Secretary in May and I said that now. It also disturbed some in the New Democracy that I spoke well about Mr Karamanlis. For some in New Democracy Mr Karamanlis is obviously not a good thing. But you won't judge that either - I don't mean you personally - nor I do. If Mr Tsipras and Mr Karamanlis are a folklore, the people can judge it. Mrs. Buddhism also asked me - how did she tell me? - to change my mind. That reminds me of something. The change in view of something we do not agree with, I do not think it is consistent with democratic morality. Everyone is entitled to his or her views, especially at a personal level. I can like Mr. Augenakis, I can dislike Mr. Voutsi. That's my personal matter. It's not a political position. Also, Mrs Buddhism said about the lister stack accumulated by the SYRIZA government. I must remind her that we inherited this pile of lists. They had it for a few years. And I will say here that everyone can hear it, even if the Greek people - who is watching - can hear the first person on the Lagard list have taken three years. Not to mention that the Lagard list was headed from a flash drive and a drawer to a drawer. I said I was a mild political climate, but I cannot tolerate falsification of the truth. On the contrary, on the list that came over the days of SYRIZA, in the last few days, which, as I hear, the German Minister for Finance was begging to give, we identified dozens of names in two weeks. When I say we, I mean the Greek state. There's nothing to do with the Justice Department. That's the job of the prosecutors. Do you want to make the comparison? I think you don't have to. One more thing: some are smiling - and Mrs Karamanlis said so - that this government will begin interventions in justice. Actions in justice will not be taken by SYRIZA. Justice over the days of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks will breathe freely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u361	The judges said so in their resolution, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u362	Don't have a dialogue, please. Don't interrupt the process. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u363	It's a resolution of the judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u364	I also assure the judges who know it, because 99.9% of the judges know that I respect the independence of my colleagues, I honor their troubles on the night, I know their hands drip the least sweat, writing the night - and I talk about five or ten in action -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u365	It says so, Minister, in the resolution of the judges. New Democracy didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u366	I know, Mr. Ausgeakis. I didn't say New Democracy said so. You keep falsifying my words. I didn't say New Democracy said so. I am talking about few, counted on one hand's fingers, retired and active, who are trying to save themselves by putting on the issue that we do not respect the independence of justice. I can assure you, therefore, that the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Justice and the entire government respects the independence of justice, does not come in vengeance for anyone, will not be spared to anyone. Those who fear, if they are rightly afraid, well do and fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We shall conclude the debate with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Kyriazides, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u368	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's question of the New Democracy was of particular importance and content and has not been tabled for any other reason, rather than for the substance and effort that has been made here today to have a debate. Besides, he was filed about two months ago. So the fact that it is being discussed today is an option. We have seen further questions that have been tabled since April and were discussed ten days ago. The substance is today's content of the debate. You will allow me to mention, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that the moral advantage of this - I mean the left - to some extent there was before the Left took over to govern. Today, it is government and unfortunately it reminds us - at least as far as I am concerned - the old-fashioned party. Whatever - if you wish - we, too, condemned as new Members - and condemned - both as a New Democracy today, but also yesterday, we find it tragically repeated in every way. I would like to point out that Caesar's wife should not only be an honor, but should also be an honor. Unfortunately, you, while it is not an honour, want to present it as a virgin. Mr. Papagelopoulos is gone. As regards the independence of justice, seventeen Judges have recently been arrested in judges in order to make their choice. Antiquity no longer exists. This is your product. It has been mentioned by colleagues here 'and you have done the same', i.e. with the hospital managers, and so on. And 'we repeat the same and more so, so that there is a working peace, because it is not good for him here, too.' Yesterday, in fact, there were some left, such as, for example, the commander of "Evangelism". You sent him, too, because there was a pressure inside. The Ministry of Education becomes the same. The choice of director, etc., is made in the way it is. We did expect you to give us something different. And I personally expected it and always had an intimate fear of the mistakes I might have made. I did expect you to improve and take a step forward. But we're going a long way back. This is unfortunately the reality. Recently, my former colleague in the Committee on Home Affairs has been released, who has been dealing with an extremely important case, acceptable to everyone. We also heard the paradox, the novelty: "The independent authorities were abolishing them, because they were non-independent, uncontrolled and operated arbitrarily and imposed fines beyond dominance" and all this. Of course, we're here to check it out. That is why there is Parliament. If something hadn't gone well, we'd have done it. But not to abolish them as...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u369	Who talked about retiring?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u370	It was reported by your co-pilot of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u371	When did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u372	Mr. Kammenos just came down, that's exactly what he said. You weren't here, Mr. President. You can refer to the Minutes, to see exactly this report as I tell you. And you know, I'm not saying anything different. Corruption really has many manifestations. It is not just what we have referred to today. We referred to specific ones. Indeed, there is a culture, a lactation of citizens from the political system in a not correct way. But what messages do we send here? Or do you, as government today, send out what messages you're sending? Something different? Oh, no! Something the other day, that smells like mold. In any case, Mr President of the House and President-in-Office of the Council, we must at last face up to this cruel reality in order to be stable. And we have a unique opportunity to have stable at every level, on justice, on health and taxation issues, so that they cannot - if you like - be challenged by anyone. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you do not go exactly that way. You are operating in an old-fashioned, micro-party and - I would say many times - costly, partisan way. You may have to fight a deep party SYRIZA from which you do not want to drag. Unfortunately, there is as long as you don't fight it and it appears in the way it appears. Indeed, the political system will continue to be questioned in terms of society. You have a big debt and a great responsibility. The first of you should set this example. Today, you have not given this example in this House. You have not answered the specific questions which, in detail on the part of my colleagues, have been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u375	Do you want to triple?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u376	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u377	Would you like to trivialize, too, Mr. Flambury?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u378	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u379	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u380	I will remain in the last thing Mr Kyriazidis said with which I fully agree that the political system must not be deceived anymore. But that is why we need consensus. We must not plunder - I am not talking about you, on the other hand - we must be careful. I repeat that consensus is absolutely essential, especially in times of crisis. Mr Georgiadis - I forgot to say this before - said indirectly that he apologized to me for saying that I must be ashamed. I want to tell him he doesn't have to apologize to me. I, by my very nature, am a big soul, I'm not mistaken. I understand. I understand that, for his day-to-day effort, he should be a little provocative for the inner-party vote. As for the shame, I would like to say - and this will be a personal confession - that it is perhaps the only feeling I have not felt. I've felt too many emotions, and to a large extent, because I'm a sensitive man. But as far as those who are prepared to attack me or the government are concerned, they must know that sensitivity is not necessarily a disadvantage. Do not forget that the heart, which is the most sensitive organ of the human body, is the most powerful muscle. And I'll close by saying that the seventeenth for the year. The yearbook, you know, if the legislator didn't want the lawmaker to be a booze, he wouldn't have given the right to be appraised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Minister. A request has been made by Mr Aygeakis, in which he says 'please give me the floor for a minute, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the House'. I must inform Mr Augias that the Rules of Procedure do not provide for any tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u382	I shall also ask for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u383	I repeat that the Rules of Procedure - let me finish my sentence - does not provide for any tritology and I explained it to Mr Aygeakis. He said that he would ask in writing - he has not done so - if there is an incidental issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u384	I gave you a document.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u385	There is no request for an incidental matter in writing. You don't write it here. If you were to ask for the floor on an incident, you should explain in particular what provision from the Rules of Procedure is being violated, as the Rules of Procedure of this House say. Therefore, you cannot be given the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Screkas, Member of the New Democracy, is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad from 20 December to 28 December. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u386	The House approved the requested permission. The debate on number 5/5/17-11-2015 on a topical question by fifteen Members of the New Democracy to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Administrative Reconstruction on “if the Prime Minister is determined to fight corruption found in his Government’s “inflamed”. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-18-S1-commons.u387	With the consent of the House at 14.52' the sitting is closed for Tuesday, December 22, 2015, at 10.30', on the subject of a special sitting of the House in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
