ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Finance, Economy, Development and Tourism, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Health, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Rural Development and Food, and the Deputy Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Finance submitted a draft law on 12-12-2015: ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement’. This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. It shall be referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u2	We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under No 456/30/22-10-2015 and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens of the New Democracy Mr Nikita Kaklamani to the Minister of Finance concerning the public debate between the Government and the General Secretariat of Public Incomes. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Here, Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the reasons why you have sent out - after a meeting of the Ministerial Council - Mrs Savvaidou were two - at least that is what we know if there are others, you will tell them - what has made two decisions on the end of 20% of television arrangements, which, according to you, were incorrect, not to say dictators in favour of the media. One was on January 21, 2015, which reminded me that every year by 20 January, what the media owes, this 20%, has to be paid, and the second was on August 25, 2015. I would like to remind my fellow Members that these decisions are published in an FEK and, in order to be published in an FEK, they go through a legality check of the General Secretariat of the Government. And for the first time, on 21 January 2015, the audit was carried out by the General Secretariat, I suppose, of the previous government - which you, Mr Alexiadis, not as a person, as a government, do not trust and accept it - but the second decision made on 25 August 2015, which also took FEC, was checked by the General Secretariat of the Government SYRIZA - ANEL and by the Prime Minister's financial advisor, Mr. Koutedakis. I do not therefore understand why this was considered to be a disgrace with regard to the content of the decision. The first question I have asked you, you have answered and I accept your answer that you do not know if Mrs Valavani and the Secretariat of the then government, SYRIZA - ANEL, after 25 January, had not found any relevant correspondence. I accept, Minister, that it is the way you say it. You didn't find any mail in your office and probably the briefing was oral. I asked you, however, about the second decision if you know whether there is any correspondence with both the Prime Minister's financial advisor and the Government's secretary, and if so, I asked you to submit the relevant correspondence to the House. You didn't answer me at all. So I ask you again today whether this decision was brought to the attention of Mr Kountakis, and therefore also by extension to the Government Secretariat, if there are any correspondence and if so, I would like you to present it today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, in reply to your question I would like to make a few basic points, starting with the point that everyone from Greek justice has criminal proceedings, has the presumption of innocence and until the court has proved guilty or not can we leave anyone implied against it. I say that so that there is no vicious circle of impression. Secondly, I do not agree with the logic as you put your question and as you present this work of the government. The government has not expelled Mrs Savvaidou, nor is there a public controversy as you say between Mrs Savvaidou and the government. Independent Greek justice - unless you have another view on this, and I would ask you to testify - has prosecuted an official of the Ministry of Finance. And Mr. Tsakalotos and I and Mr. Juliarakis, as long as we are in these positions of the Ministry of Finance, we have specific disciplinary and criminal law. And imagine a criminal prosecution involving my service will be brought to me tomorrow and I will say that I will remain in my place until the court has finalised. This is not the case for the officials of the Ministry of Finance, will it be the case for those who command the officials of the Ministry of Finance? So I would like to make it clear that there were no public controversy and no dismissal. There was criminal prosecution and, based on the criminal prosecution, the government and its supreme body, the Ministerial Council, made a specific decision. As far as the question of whether or not there is one in the ministry's mail is concerned, we have made it clear to you that there is nothing like that. However, I think the political question that needs to be answered in this House, which we are going through and going to the procedural procedure, is that there was a political issue with this decision to postpone the advertising tax? In order for the people to understand, at the same time as being hard and barbaric carpets and taxes, it was possible by decision - why did some of them go through the House, and some of them went through legislative acts and December 31st - independent or non-attached to extend a tax obligation? This is a political question, not a criminal question. Justice is concerned with this, but there is a political question that we need to answer. How did this process of postponing a tax obligation began? It is a political issue that I hope in your secondaryity will be answered. On the substance, there was no intervention, no dismissal, we followed what Greek justice says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. You have the floor again, Mr. Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u7	Minister, of Alexiadis Tree, I was expecting a brave answer you didn't give it to me. Firstly, Mr Varoufakis' letter of 20 February which he sent out states in a specific part of what you will do as a government: 'Activation immediately of the current, although inertial, legislation...' - here you are right, the previous government had postponed the law that was in existence twice - '... regulation of media revenue'. So Mr Varoufakis had accepted Mrs Savvaidou's decision and not only had accepted it, but invokes it as an income on what she sent to the lenders on 20 February. Secondly, of course you have had a controversy. I've been here for 20 years. I never remember the Ministerial Council meeting in full in order to request resignation - unless you are considered to be a savoir vivre - a Secretary-General or a Secretary-General. You have convened to dismiss Mrs Savvaidou. I will give this document to the Minister, and then I will submit it to the Minutes. And you come here today and tell me there's no mail at your ministry. What do you mean, the Department? Your office? The General Secretariat of Income isn't part of your Ministry? So listen, ladies and gentlemen: E - a letter dated 6 August 2015 by Mr Koutedakis, the Prime Minister's financial advisor, with recipients other than Mrs Tsika - who is still a member of the General Secretariat of Essex, as well as a member of the negotiating team - Mrs Savvaidou, Mr Juliarakis - who had taken over at that time - and Mr Liagos, who is a Secretary-General. Mr. Koutedakis, addressing other recipients, says: "Congratulations to all and everyone for your excellent work. Some remaining details will be discussed by telephone. Especially with regard to the advertising tax, please see to it that after the first payment on 30 September 2015... - for the second decision a first payment was made in September and the other one in November on the revenues of 2015 - "... to be paid monthly. Thank you." It follows another e-mail, this time by Mr. Nikos Hatzinikolaou - nothing to do with the journalist - executive and that of the General Secretariat of Public Essodes, to Mr. Koudakis. The e-mail says: "Franch, we are sending you a draft decision on the television advertising tax. Let us know if you are in agreement, so that it can be promoted for signature and sent to the National Printing Office." In response to Mr Kottentakis: "On my part, there is no disagreement with the draft decision providing for payment in two instalments in 2015 of the eight-month January-August and monthly payments from September 2015 onwards." I beg your pardon: why didn't you remove Mr. Koudakis? Mr Koutedakis, first of all, congratulates everyone on the excellent work they do. What is the excellent job? The one you implied, that Mrs. Savvaidou was illegal and that's why the prosecutor sent her to the audience? Is that the congratulations? Secondly, on the second e-mail, he is told: 'Dear Francis'. To call someone with the little name, it means he had a day-to-day contact with him. He says: 'We agree'. In other words, Maximo was in agreement with Mrs Savvaidou's second decision, as Mr Varoufakis was in agreement with the first one, which is why he included it in his letter to the lenders on 20 February. And you are telling me today that you have not misinterpreted this woman, that you have not met in full-collection and asked for her resignation, saying that she has illegally done so when the Prime Minister's financial advisor gives congratulations and says that she agrees? I ask you, Mr Alexiadis, and I look into your eyes: These two e-mails did you know about them? If you knew, you should have sent them to me in my written question. I want to believe that the Tree Alexiadis did not know about it, but I want to hear what you will tell me now that you have known these e-mails and tell me 'ok', justice for Mrs Savvaidou will decide'. For Mr Kountakis who congratulates and agrees, who will decide?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u8	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor to answer Mr Kaklamani's dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u9	I have preferred to give an honest answer, but instead, we have heard arguments that I want you to reread the Minutes, Mr Vice-President, to see what you are saying in your question and what you are counting on us here. In your question, you claim that there was an update of the government immediately after the national elections on 25 January. You have not provided any element of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u10	I said I accept that, the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u11	It was not submitted that the Government had been informed in January. That's the first element. Second element.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u12	The letter, Barofakis, isn't it a clue?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u13	Wait a minute. Now, if we start and connect things unlike each other or texts in general to this particular... I talked about the presumption of innocence. I don't want to talk about it again. I would like to mention the political content and the facts. You come here and bring an e-mail and I congratulate you on your possibilities for having e-mails on the Independent General Secretariat of Public Revenues. You know, it's not a strong argument that the General Secretariat of Public Revenue is independent because it seems...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u14	Who told you it came from there?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u15	...because it turns out you're being leaked by some here by e-mails, which the Deputy Minister doesn't even know, but I accept that at this time we can see everything. However, as far as the content of the e-mail is concerned, as I read it here, we should not confuse things that are disparate. The content of the e-mail says "from Mr. Kountakis" who was then the head, that is in August 2015. He was the head of the negotiating team, which succeeded and took us to the deal. He did a very difficult job, and I know what he took. It says: 'Congratulations to everyone and everyone for excellent work'. What's he talking about? It's clear if you read it. In the difficult negotiations that have taken place at the time. It's August 6th. It does not refer to the advertising tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u16	Read the second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u17	It does not say, that is, "go for doing what you did in the early '14s or for not changing it in '15s". That's the one. Two. With regard to the advertising tax, I'm sorry, but you're taking open doors. In August of '15' we, of course, pressed and said that this issue must be resolved and legislated. So, what do we find out here? In August of '15 we restored a great political scandal for which no one speaks. The political part must be answered to the House because at the same time as some put taxes and carpets, television companies left in the unavoidable, postponing a Memorandum Law. They went out and said to everyone: “What should we do? This is provided for in the Memorandum', while...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u18	Answer me for Mr. Koudaki's e-mail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u19	I'll answer that. Although you have avoided answering the political question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u20	This is not a syndicate. It's a parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u21	I respect the sacred right to trade. I understand your allergy to that, but I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u22	Answer the second question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u23	As far as this is concerned, therefore, the political question has not been answered who has served to defer the advertising tax. The citizens and the workers? Oh, no. As far as the second email is concerned,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u24	That's not what I'm asking you. I would ask you whether Mrs Savvaidou has legally done so and you do not answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u25	As far as your second question is concerned, therefore, it is clear that we were voting on these issues here on 12 August 2015. Of course, and there is no disagreement on my part with the draft decision. So, what do you come and bring us here? It's voted...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u26	Then why did you ask her to resign, since there is no disagreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u27	Wait, Mr. Kaklamani. We'll get to that, wait, even though you're avoiding the postponement of the television advertising tax. You're denounced by the government for expulsions and stuff like that. We, Mr Kaklamani, when independent Greek justice proceeded to some actions we did the legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u28	Justice's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u29	Do you remember Mr. Theocharis' expulsions and what he has said here and out of Parliament? I believe that you are due to a political response.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u30	I have given it publicly for Mr Theocharis and you know her who she is and you have congratulated me as a trade unionist, of course, not as Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u31	Please, Mr. Kaklamani. We proceed to the first with number 278/8-12-2015, a top-level question for the first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Evangelia Karakostas on the replacement of the provision of Law 4172/2013 which defines as a business transaction the sale of real estate. Please, Mrs Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. The question I put to the Minister today is not a random question. Many citizens, who have a very serious problem in this direction, have taken it to me since I was in this Parliament, namely from January 2015. The truth is that I raised this without question in the House, Mrs Valvaani, who was the Minister of Finance in the previous seven months. It considered it reasonable, but it did not go through any legislative arrangements. I now put it to Mr Alexiadis that he is more practical in resolving daily problems and I call for the possibility of the problems to be solved - of this type that I will put down below - as soon as possible and probably not expecting global amendments, total legislation. The issue I raise - I will not read it all, but I will read out what the law says - is this: Article 21(1) and (3) of L.4172/2013 states: ‘For the purposes of this Article, a business transaction shall be considered as any individual or a symptom by which a transaction takes place or the systematic conduct of operations on the economic market with a view to profit. Any three similar transactions carried out within a six-month period shall be considered to be a systematic conduct of operations’. It states, however, below - I am passing a paragraph - that in the case of transactions involving immovable property, the period referred to in the second subparagraph is two years. Today, with this provision on property, I think there are uneasy and unjust results. Given the current economic circumstances and the poorness of our people, many citizens, particularly those who belong to low incomes, are forced to sell real estate they acquired either from a legacy or have bought before, when they have been able to do so, in order to meet their living costs, to pay for their obligations, etc. Therefore, citizens cannot be regarded as traders when they go to sell more than two properties at the same time. I want us to think about the fact that someone has three fields in his village, wanting to sell them, and we consider them to be a trader, and many other similar cases. For example, there is a legacy, they have percentages, they inherit four properties, one sells to the other trade union and is considered a trader under this law. So I would like you to tell me how you see this and then to refer to the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Caracosta. Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer Mrs Karakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u34	Mrs Karakotas, you are putting a real problem that concerns many of our fellow citizens throughout Greece. There was a legislative provision in a previous period, but now that we have arrived, things are difficult. Quite simply to explain it - to fill it out, as you say it - there was a provision that said that if you did within a semester of three real estate sales, it was a business transaction and you had another tax obligation than in other cases. .....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u35	Not real estate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u36	Homogeneous transactions in various things. It's also about real estate. However, the time has come when the Greeks sell their property, unfortunately, for certain situations and now we have an excessive tax burden added to the other tax treatment that citizens have - which is not what the Constitution asks us to do - and we have an injustice. It is therefore very clear that this is an injustice, because we are burdening excessive citizens who are forced to sell their property, their homes, their real estate, to meet the needs of the economic situation that are currently in existence. It's something that the Treasury employs. We cannot at the moment because of the financial and economic circumstances that exist to solve this, but you know that through the changes in the Code of Income Tax that will take place in early 2016, through dialogue and through a logic to deal with excesses or problems that were in existence, we will also consider this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Caracosta, you're a second-guesser.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u38	Minister, I hope that what you say in the legislation is next month, because we are government ten months and constantly blame us for delays. I know the motive given to make the law. And here I want to make a correction: it separates the other similar acts from the semester and the real estate gives two years. I mean, one who has five fields to sell, takes five years if he has the buyer and if the buyer is patient, the buyer expects every two years to sell from one. I know well that this was a request from manufacturers, probably at times when construction was blossoming and there was a strong market for citizens as well. In this case, of course, the legislator did not take into account the fact that the manufacturer did not pay VAT - he was exempted from VAT - while a mere purchaser did not have such a privilege. However, we have to look at it in depth, because it is really a serious problem not only for the citizens, but also for the incomes of our citizens. Because when it's not sold, there's no revenue, since the other one doesn't sell. How is a man gonna sell his field? That is why I have also made a proposal to which I must refer a little. We must separate or, in any case, facilitate the situation by deleting the last phrase that says 'two years' and leaving it as an amendment, leaving it to six months. There may be a deal between buyer and seller within the six months if he is to sell three fields instead of two. To be patient in it or to be seen in relation to time. In other words, a person who has it either of legacy or has acquired it ten years before the property does not belong to that logic. That's how I want this to be seen, because we're really going to solve problems not traders, but citizens who want to solve their problems. I told you a typical example of the issue of legacy and percentages, which you really understand what it creates. One who inherits something has a 2% rate and cannot transfer it to the other heir. If it's three of these fields, say, it's considered a dealer. It's extreme! I bring you extreme examples to understand what happens in everyday life since 2013 and we have 2015 and go to 2016. It is a serious matter and I think that with a very simple amendment it can be solved immediately, because - as you have seen - it is perfectly logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u39	You have the floor again, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u40	As you were right, you pointed out this provision had a reasonable point. The reason was that in the past there was a tax burden on those who had not started up as businessmen, but were hiding behind such transactions, three every six months. That was the logic. The property issue is for two years in semester. But this has, at the moment, caused problems. It's something we want to deal with. I want to be honest. We can't deal with it now. It is within the changes that we want to do with the changes to the Code of Income Tax in 2016. We now want the concept of business transaction, the concept of trader, the concept of trader not to depend on such things, but on other tax aspects, on other tax controls. We are, unfortunately, committed to a tax system and to a tax framework which gives us neither justice. But until we change it, we will try with this system to meet the needs of the budget. I confirm, however, that it is within the priorities of the Ministry of Finance and this and other issues that concern citizens or businesses in the changes that will take place at the beginning of 2016 to address them with the logic of tax justice imposed by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much. We move to the second with number 265/7-12-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Attica of the New Democracy, Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Finance, on the introduction of the system of objective land pricing in the 4th Hellenic Urban Unit of Nea Makris of the Municipality of Marathon. Please, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to raise with this timely question a great injustice to the detriment of a few hundred fellow citizens in the area of the former Municipality of Nea Macris. I am speaking, Minister, about the 4th Unity of the former Municipality of New Macris, where the citizens, the residents, the owners of this region have been suffering for many years. Of course, I will talk to you about an issue that you inherited, but where we must now give all of us a solution and an end to the hostage of our citizens. The 4th Urban Unit was integrated into the plan and then it had an objective value of 200 euros, Minister. By appeal of a owner, it was then replied by the project and found not to have an objective determination. At that time, the determination was made with the prices of adjacent areas. And a contract was found in 2010, a land of only two hundred square blocks, which, for its own reasons, for their own needs - I cannot assess it and any of the owners - was made with 620 euros. Undoubted injustice! I have to clarify here that the 4th Urban Unit is relatively degraded, as it is still pending. You understand that. Infrastructural projects have not been carried out. The citizens have not given what is meant by a contribution to land, so the plots will be small. So today they're invited to pay for land they don't have tomorrow. So you understand that the 4th Regional Planning Unit remains in a transitional phase. Today, therefore, they are called upon to pay objective value determined, as I have said, arbitrarily with contracts, which have been done and which are high. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like some time from my dentistry. I need him more now. Of course, there is a decision by the Council of State that annulss the decision and I know that you have come in October, and you have determined the price at EUR 300, but I will still say that there is injustice, because on the basis of my own figures - and, of course, according to the decision of the Council of State - the Minister of Finance, when exercising its regulatory powers to determine the taxable value of land in areas not covered by the objective calculation system, must take into account the taxable values of residential areas, to which an objective system is applied for reasons of tax equality. Here, then, if we go to the 3rd Regional Planning Unit, we will see that the price ranges from EUR 165 to EUR 210 per square metre. And given that the 4th Urban Unit is more degraded, you understand that we had to talk about an even lower price. And today you're saying we're going to rest at 300 euros? Also, I have to tell you that the identification of the ENVY for 2014-2015 is at EUR 147. That's the real evidence. That's what we have to invoke. That's what we have to go with. And, you know, it was determined at the lowest price, as the law says, the municipality. That's the point. So today, your decision, I would say, is unfair. It's not the solution. You are still asking like a state - you, yesterday, some people - money from the citizens, who simply won't give it, because they think it is unfair what is being asked of them. We're just prolonging the hostage. My proposal is that you take the initiative, call on all the parties involved, that the service, which speaks with general approaches, be heard by the citizens and their consultants, who actually know exactly the figures and speak very specifically, so that a fair decision can be made. If that is the case, I am sure you will come with the proposal of the owners who are in reasonable terms, at reasonable levels and will end this loose end, which lasts for too many years. I'm stopping here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vlao, it is clear that your proposal is very correct. I am starting with this, and I say that we will adopt it, we will hold a wide-ranging meeting, after a new decision, with actors in the region, with the municipality, MPs, to see how we can deal with a real problem. As you know, since 2013 in the relevant decision, the price at EUR 620 per square metre has been determined. By a decision that came out now in October 2015 - Alexiadis accidentally signed it, he could be any other Deputy Minister - from 620 euros the price was reduced to 300 euros. There is a request from the citizens, the municipality, from you - right from them - and they say 'but it has nothing to do with what is going on in the region'. But, as you know, the Ministry of Finance must move within certain limits. The average of the objective values of the plots of the Municipality of Nea Macris, the neighbouring areas with the area of Nea Macris, in which the objective system does not exist, is EUR 277 the square meter. The lower land price in the region for the years 2011-2014, according to the Bank of Greece's Real Estate Assessment Base, is EUR 302,49 per square metre. The lowest comparative figures of the Palleni DU, which is the competent DU, for 2010, are EUR 620, for 2012 is EUR 650 and the average for 2014 is EUR 577. With this, anyone in my position could not make a greater reduction than the one we have done, from EUR 620 to EUR 300, because they would be in danger of becoming the subject of a question, like the one we have previously discussed with another of your colleagues. I don't have the legal right to lower the objective prices beyond the data we have in the Ministry of Finance. However, because I understand the problem and we have to deal with the problems rather than describe them, I told you that we will do everything possible, in cooperation with the municipality and institutions, to find the solution that best serves everyone. What I would like to stress on the occasion of the question is that the Treasury is in front of a plan to end this story with objective values now. This circle is closed. He gave a lot of the system of objective values to the Greek public, but also because of the crisis and because of the loss of relationship with reality in too many areas we have objective values far beyond trade, such as you say, because I also have an image from the region there, as we have other cases that are the opposite. In 2016, therefore - fortunately, it describes this and the agreement clearly - we must go to a system of commercial values, not to subjective crises, which are at the level of the real prices that exist in each region, so as to stop injustices, excesses that affect both citizens and tax services.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u45	Mr Vlachos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u46	Look, until this system is changed - which we will not judge today, nor do we have the time - I will say that our request is that there should be an objective determination in this planning section as well, and when it is changed for everyone, let us change for it as well. So we accept the objective determination. There has been this and there has been a dismissal of citizens from this adventure - we have been talking since 2002, Minister - in order to be able to do business, to be parental benefits, to make sales, to make use of this area, which remains in decline, because as long as these prices are available, no one has the courage and the finance to open up any transfer and recovery. But here I would like to tell you that from 27-5-2002 until today, I have told you that it is done with comparative data. Until recently we had the famous 620, and I told you - you are experienced - a contract was in existence and we went with the largest contract in 2010. What does 2010 have to do with 2015, so should I say that? You know how the services work, we all live here. But we are talking about the border towns. Watch out for the information I give you, they have nothing to do with what the services give you. Someone here isn't telling the truth. I don't want to burden it any more, but someone's not telling the truth. In other words, in the 3rd, 6th and 5th and in the settlement of newspapers, the objective values of land are about 1/3. In particular, I say to you that in the 5th Urban Unit where the building coefficient is 0.60 - it does not matter -219, in the 3rd Urban Unit, which I told you earlier, it is from 165 to 210 and makes an average of 203, in the 6th Urban Unit 227. The numbers you told me don't come from anywhere, they're not real. And you know because the owners know what the reality is, so they don't accept it. Because if what you said were really true, if 277 was real, do you think that the citizens today would have a storm of protests with plans that I have here, with the municipality, with the MPs and would not have accepted the 300 that you said? Why don't they accept 300? Because it's far away from reality, Minister. So I want you to turn it off now - because you may say what the services say to you, and I want to say what I know - in the next few days to take an initiative to call us all and find out what the right way is. There's someplace wrong, somewhere there's a lot of injustice. We think we're right on our side. We want you to give us the opportunity to prove this and the evidence we have. We really expect this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u47	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u48	Mr Vlacho, you said so too, but I would like to stress that. We'll have a meeting right away to find out exactly what the solution is. I am committed, as the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance - and that is the right thing - with the information that the services give me every time to make decisions. And decisions cannot be based on the personal sympathies or disillusionments of the Minister in an area, or whether this region seems good or bad to him. Fortunately, there is a certain way of changing the objective values and that is how objective values are changed. With the data I have from the Treasury, we can't make another change. I say this again from the 620 that was in place by decision of 2013, we took it in October 2015 to 300 euros. There's a argument that he has to come down. I accept her, we'll hold an open meeting and talk and see anything else. On the occasion of this, however, I would like to emphasise once again the passivity of the tax system in Greece. The system of objective values began in Attica in 1985. Unfortunately, there are still areas in Attica that have not joined the system, such as what you say, and we afflict citizens and we have these strange things. As the agency says here, it has unfortunately joined about 50% of the country's settlements. In other words, there is a large part of the country that has not yet joined this system. Especially for New Makri, the programming was to join the 2009-2010 period. Unfortunately, because of economic developments, this did not go ahead and we do not have new regions joining the objective system, which would solve the problem in this area too. I stress, therefore, that we will address the problem with dialogue with local society and with local government to find the best solution, and we will find those numbers that will actually respond, until we go in 2016 to the system of commercial values, which will put an end to problems that do not justify tax justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, thirty-five members from the Lower Petral Friendship Club. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed to the second with number 264/7-12-2015, a top-level question for the first-round question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Spyridonos-Adonis Georgiadis. One was cleaning and the other was in elementary school. It must be either Spiros - Adonis Georgiadis or Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis. What do you prefer, Mr. Georgiadis? The second?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u50	I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u51	Okay. Therefore, the second question under number 264/7-12-2015 will be discussed in the context of the first-round question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos-Adonis Georgiadis, with the Minister of Finance, on dealing with the smuggling of tobacco products and the institutional protection of tobacco retailers. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to say that the language remark is a little analogous. Or Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiados will be Spiros - Adonis Georgiadis. But now, at the time of the linguistic confusion we are going through, everything is allowed. Minister, I'm coming straight to the point. What has happened with tobacco taxation in the last six years, since 2009, when we started gradually increasing taxation in order to increase tax revenue? We increased taxation, but revenue not only increased accordingly, but from one point to the next they began to fall. For what? Because smuggling has increased at the same time, and it is something that we all understand. The greater the incentive of the smuggler to earn money from the price difference, the greater this illegal sales. It is an illegal sale that the state is losing too much tax revenue, since according to the assessment made by the Trade Union Adventurous Tobacco Professionals, it has reached 10 billion in recent years. But public health issues are also being created, since we have products that have not been controlled by anyone and we do not know what they contain and exactly what they contain. I must tell you here that our own governments have failed to deal with this big issue, even though the tender procedure for the electronic traceability of tobacco products has started, a method that has been demonstrated worldwide that it has been implemented - but has also been applied rigorously by states in a serious way - had a huge difference in dealing with smuggling. In fact, a tax policy on tobacco products can be designed and achieved only if it is previously controlled by electronic tracing. I would therefore like to know what the Government is positioning on this issue. You know that Mr Nikoloudis, on the previous Government of Mr Tsipras, had prepared an institutional framework for all of the issue of tobacco policy. I do not know what his fate is and if you intend to continue it and finally bring it to the House for vote. I would also like to ask you, by closing down, whether you are considering the restructuring of the rates of taxation for tobacco products, of course, along with the control of smuggling, so that the State can increase its revenue, but also protect the perpetrator of tobacco trade with a certain price of profit. Because I recall that in 2009, there was a drastic change from Philip Sahinides, where the tax on tobacco increased, and the percentage of the profits of retailers was very low, and in fact the companies absorbed, through this reduction in the profit rate, the loss they had suffered from the increase in tax. I wanted to know your intention on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Georgiades. The Minister has the floor to answer Mr Georgiadis's prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u54	Mr Ephremidis, you raise a very important issue for the revenues of the Greek public and for the health of the Greek people, as you describe it in your question. I answered this question last Friday, at Mr Kammenos's identical question, but out of respect for both Parliament and you, I felt my obligation to answer today. I'll give you photocopies from the three service replies - and for the Minutes - so that we don't waste time to develop them and have a full briefing. Very briefly, however, I will say that, as you have said, the issue of tobacco taxation, but also the issue of taxation on heating oil, is a typical example of how the Ministry of Finance can aim to increase tax revenue, that is the intention, but ultimately, to achieve tax revenues. Because in one case and on the other, if you look at the curve of increasing tobacco taxation and the curve of public revenues, you will see that as far as tobacco is concerned, public revenues are falling. This must be a strong example for the Ministry of Finance, it must be written in its history, so that we do not make such mistakes from now on, namely that we do not have such tax movements that do not pay back. As far as the bill is concerned, there was an initial processing by Mr Nicoludis. This bill is in the final drafting. It was an important step forward, but we incorporate in this draft legislative framework the Community framework which has been in place since 2016, because there are also our obligations from the Community framework on these matters. It is in the final processing by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and will be coming to the beginning of 2016 for a vote in the House. Basically, it provides for the establishment of a traceability system and the establishment of control centres, coordination centres, i.e. the smuggling of cigarettes. To put traceability systems in the logic of European Union Directives, such as Directive 2014/40, where we have an obligation to be incorporated by 20 May 2016. And the traceability systems in cigarettes and tobacco are obliged to do so in the coming years and in other products by 2024. And, of course, we have technical specifications in the traceability systems by the European Commission and are compatible with what we are going to put. These traceability systems will allow us to hit the smuggling of tobacco products, protect the health of the citizen, protect a productive sector in the Greek production process, the tobacco products that are now, unfortunately, at the mercy of illegal and smuggled imports. And in this direction it is very important that the Ministry of Finance, after donation to the tobacco industry, was provided by the "PASTRATO S.A." - an important tool, a self-propelled X-ray truck, with which we will be able to do up to eighty truck controls within one hour for smoke and other products. The process is under way, to take three to four self-propelled scanners, which can cover the national roads, and also to place scanners in all major customs offices, because it is not possible at the moment for Turkey, Bulgaria, Albania, to have scanner systems at their borders, truck weighing systems and incoming-exit plate recording systems, and for us to have now, after donating again to the Ministry of Finance, a bridgeplate at the customs office with Bulgaria and Turkey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have not answered me whether you are thinking of doing something about the profit rate of traders. I would like you to reply to your dentext, mainly because this is where there has been a very great injustice, and you know, you know, the states exist to control the powerful and help the weak. And here they are weak, unprotected against the powerful, and we know very well who they are in this case. You will allow me to tell you - because you said about the scanners - my own government experience. She might be useful to you. I first announced as Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs in 2011 the launch of the tender for the supply of the ports and customs scanners. So far the scanners haven't been in. I'm not saying it's not our fault. Obviously, it's our fault. I'm telling you my experience, because I want to help you finish it. It is huge the money that the Greek State loses from the fact that these machines have not been placed at the entrance gates of the country. If you manage, I will be the first to applaud you, because this is money that if our state had it in its hands, it could greatly reduce the restrictive policies affecting weak social groups. It is incomprehensible that Greece is the only country in this region that does not have these machines. I can assure you, however, that you will also find the same difficulties before you as everyone else. Because the political leaderships always wanted to do it, but in a magical way they never went in. So I wish you could move on. And I wish you could proceed with the competition - and complete - for the electronic tracking of tobacco and alcohol products. Both can be traced electronically. I had dealt with these issues as the Minister for Health in the famous directive of the European Union, which you mentioned, but also had begun the process for the World Health Organisation's protocol, which urges and imposes on the countries that adopt it to complete the electronic tracking systems. So don't neglect it. Do not consider it secondary to your many other issues. Consider it a primal. And to support you, too, in order to do so, in order for our state to gain income from smuggling, which is lost today, and to be able to help these fellow citizens who are today in an extremely weak position because our state has no money to help us. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that I would like to know whether, alongside electronic tracking and control of the smuggling - because if you do not do so first, the other is not done - you are thinking of correcting, with a certain percentage of profit, the issue I have raised with regard to tobacco products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u57	Please, Mr Minister, reply to Mr Georgiadis's denunciation. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u58	Mr Georgiadis, first of all on the issue of the kiosks - indeed - of retailers, this is not my responsibility. I just want to tell you that from the note I have on the subject of supply limits it relates to trade agreements and relations between tobacco-industrialists or importers with their representatives. However, it should be noted that the provisions of earlier laws, 1984 and 1985, set a threshold for the supply of wholesalers - retailers of these products by a percentage of their retail selling price. These provisions have been repealed in good or bad manner. We must discuss this issue again, the protection of the patios and these businesses, because otherwise with the smuggling they face, many more will be brought to a close. It is something that needs to be addressed. On the subject of the checks you said about the scanner. I am quite aware that the politician is not judged by his intentions. He will be judged by his outcome when the time comes to testify his account and leave the Treasury. Then I'll say I didn't know. Because I don't have the excuse that I didn't know. I know very well what is going on in the Ministry of Finance, so I will only tell you two examples. The full access of financial prosecutors and tax and other auditing mechanisms to bank accounts was law years before I went to the Ministry of Finance. It has now been signed and the decision has been taken so that there can be full access. It was a law passed by previous governments and it was a proper provision, but the decision had not been taken. Now the final decision has come out and we're on our way. Also, the donation made by Mr. Korkidis, the National Trade Confederation of Greece, delayed years in the services of the Ministry of Finance. The decision was signed, placed and we are going to inaugurate and operate the bridge, because we must not allow smuggling to be wrathful. With regard to - and I would like to point this out, so as not to blame what is now happening - on controls, if we compare 2014 to 2015, we have a 50% increase in seizures of tobacco products - the first half of 2014 - the first half of 2015 - and we have 81% increase in seized quantities between 2014 and 2015. There is a very serious task, and now services are being organised better, either by strengthening equipment, such as scanners and a number of other machines, either by setting up coordination centres on smuggling or by strengthening the customs industry. And to him, unfortunately, if you compare the number of customs officers at a Greek customs office and on the other hand at a customs office in Turkey or Bulgaria, you will see that we are about one third of customs officials serving on the other, even though the other side does not have a problem of smuggling or trade from Greece for that matter. All of this is in the design we're doing in the Ministry of Finance to hit both smuggling and tax evasion and corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that three questions will not be answered because of an impediment to the competent ministers and deleted. The third, with number 268/7-12-2015, is a top-stage question from the Member of the Eotolocarnania People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousis to the Minister of Health, about the complaints of doctors for loss of tools and machines from the ORL clinic of the hospital of Rio. The fourth under number 283/8-12-2015 topical question from the Z' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisi of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of anti-physical vaccination in Greece. And the fifth, with number 275/8-12-2015, top-stage question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health, concerning the ratification of the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Tobacco Control.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u61	I too would like to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u62	Mr Barbarousis will be given the floor, and then you too, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Barbaroussi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, the competitor, Mr Michael Arvanitis, had tabled a question to the Ministry of Health on June 18, 2015, on the subject: “Procedures of doctors at the Ryu Hospital for the loss of tools and clinical machinery”. The question was as follows: "According to complaints by doctors from the Ryu Hospital, the paradox has been systematically observed over the past twenty years: Tools and devices from different departments of the hospital are disappearing so that whole machinery is put into use, which makes it difficult to examine patients. Physicians have already made complaints to the relevant Heads of Units, in particular the Minister of Health, the Prosecutors' Prosecutors and the Governor of the University Hospital of Patras. No responses were received, on the contrary all actions referred to a reasonable cover-up of the phenomenon.' Mr Arvanitis asked in comparison why there has not been a sworn administrative examination in order to investigate any administrative and criminal responsibilities. The written answer received by Mr Arvanitis from the Minister of Health, and more specifically from the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Xanthos, was as follows: "In response to the questions put to Parliament by the Members of the Golden Dawn, we will inform you that, in view of the pending trial for the establishment of a criminal organisation in which the majority of Members of the Golden Dawn are being investigated and included, we will refrain from responding to the questions put to us by these Members of the Golden Dawn for constitutional and parliamentary reasons". Mr President, I also asked the same question and received the same answer. I have been informed that the Minister will not come to answer for the reasons I have said. Until now, no action has been taken to find those who steal the tools from the Ryu Hospital. I do not want to talk to Mr Blonde personally, because I do not want to talk about someone who is not here. However, the Constitution, Mr President, does not provide anywhere that any Minister is entitled not to answer Members' questions because a court is pending against them. If the Minister does not wish to carry out his parliamentary duties, let him resign and go home. Of course, I did not see him being so sensitive to his co-legislators who have concealed some millions of tax. The Minister can co-exist with Mr Stathakis, Mr Flamouraris and all these "forgottens". The strange thing about the matter is that since June, when the question was asked, until today, nothing has happened - but none! - an action to find the people responsible, so to us and the citizens fatally, the suspicion is that the Ministry of Health is in on and willfully cover the thieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, thank you very much. My intervention has nothing to do with the development of this timely question concerning the anti-plant vaccination, which has been in place for two years now - and we have now entered the third year - is not taking place in our country or - if you like - most of the territory. The first part of the protest has to do with the time of postponing notice. We are people, of course the ministers have obligations, emblems go through issues they have to deal with. However, it cannot be five and a half hours before the beginning of the timely questions can we be notified that our question is postponed because of the Minister's impediment. That's the first. Secondly, we consider this question to be a very important issue and not because we are tabling it. We are not underestimating any timely questions, no party, no parliamentarian. However, we believe that it relates to public health, the health of our children, the children of the Greek people. Thirdly, Mr President, the question to the Ministry has been turned into a timely question, which has decided to answer even in writing what is going to happen. We denounce this logic of the Ministry of Health, namely that it does not come to answer the timely question we raise. We denounce it and consider it unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u66	As you know, at the Conference of Presidents it has been decided that the ministers should respond to the Bureau, to the President of the Parliament on their arguments, because there are cases where there are real arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u67	The coma is us today, Mr President, it is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u68	I have the impression that both can be put at the Conference of Presidents which we will probably have tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, since Mr Lambroulis and you are at the Conference of Presidents, to be precise, the matter has been raised, but no decision has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u71	Yeah, I think the point...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u72	So the Bureau, you, where the Rules of Procedure state that a minister may not come to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u73	To abolish the presumption of innocence and speak only to the terrorists? It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u74	The question, Mr Pappa, which you have raised is a serious one, but I do not think it is now a question of plenary. It must deal with the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u75	To raise this issue at the Conference next Thursday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u76	Yes, of course, this will be the case. The first, with number 279/8-12-2015, topical question of the second question of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Finance, on the malfunctions in the area of restaurants and related businesses by how municipal taxes are calculated, will not be discussed due to lack of competence - obviously - of the Minister. In other words, the question should be put to another Minister and deleted. We proceed to the third with No 269/7-12-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the bureaucratic obstacles to the production of the legendary Greek car Pony. The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Sguridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u77	Is the last one, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u78	The last. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. The main excuse for the last five years, where national reports are being implemented, is that they apply to our own good, to the development of the place, to new jobs that will come and to various other very nice and charming ones, but which do not in any way correspond to the reality. And this development does not come either for inadvertent reasons, for reasons of the baby of some, because they don't understand or know what growth is, or for deliberate reasons, in feasibility. We have a lot of questions about the incredible blockade towards a Greek company, the company "NAMCO", which was building the Pony car. Parenthesis: we have absolutely nothing to do with the company and we are not doing this for any reason at all. However, many Greeks had been informed that they would re-production the fifth generation Pony and did not come out for years for various reasons, which seem to us to be graphic or pre-formative, in order not to put a Greek car into circulation, with what this entails. What does it mean? Four hundred Greek jobs in polypathic northern Greece, which suffers from unemployment, like the rest of Greece. As in the past, the Greek State or other services may have to supply Greek cars and not cars of spouses of Ministers, from which the market, the Army, the Port Authority, the Police, Firefighting, PPC, OTE and other services were closed, simply because they were the husband of an active minister of the then Government. We would like you to tell us what is going on and why the Pony car can't get into production. We would like, please, the real reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. Mr. Sguridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. MEP, I would like to assure you that the political leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks really seeks to strengthen and support every construction company of vehicles, every vehicle manufacturer, because they actually give Greek added value to both work and capital movements. To prove what I'm saying, I have to tell you that in 2015 European authorisations for trailers were granted to the ferry companies and SIA EBE, Nikos Kiolaides and SIA. For a national small series of trailers, the companies Torlakopoulou, Zinopoulou, Tsivopoulos, Vlachos, Tsichritzis, Stavropoulos, Gratikas, Taxiarch, Litsakis, Savaidou and for a national small series of buses has been given to AFOI Papadakis and Nikas SA. Also in 2015 they were given to manufacturers such as Mantos, Hephastos, Caucasus, Ragus, Sfantos, for ambulances, wastewaters, well-being, cadmiums, triumphers, etc. I'm tabling them for the Minutes to keep them in mind. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Panagiotis Sguridis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] We have given all these companies the right to build vehicles or accessories of vehicles. In fact, the NAMCO company made a request to reopen the legendary Pony car. I've led one of these too. I had my youth and I had a rural Pony. We responded to his request, with the document number 18778/659 on 29-4-2015, saying to provide some information that was necessary. In particular, the Director of the Ministry of Ministry Mr. Thomas Evgenides called the manufacturer himself, of high age but intelligent man, and said to him "if you produce these, then three days later we will give you the permission". Unfortunately, these figures have not yet been presented. I give you the answer. There is no treatment respectively on what we have requested. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Panagiotis Sguridis, presents, for the minutes, the above-mentioned answer, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practices of the Parliament.]] In order to complete the approval of a type of vehicle, the vehicle must meet the requirements of EURO 6 B Plus and, at the same time, glazing should be of the ER 43 regulation and some other technical elements must be served. Also, in order to check a vehicle from our technical services, it should be type-approved and all those included in Directive 2007/46 of the European Union should be fulfilled. What does this directive say? This directive says that national approval is given to small sets of five hundred vehicles and that will apply until November 2016. Because from November 2016, we can grant approval for a small series up to 200 fifty vehicles. But European approval is granted unlimited. The company that gives national approval is EBITAM and European approval can be given by DEKRA - the German company with the Italian branch which exists in Greece and is certified - as is the case with Austria. Although we have tried in every way to help NAMCO bring the legendary Pony out again, as you say, this has not been achieved, because the manufacturers themselves have not brought what we have asked for. And I would like to say to you, by means of this step, that the strength of many documents that were right and brought back to us has already expired, and they will have to be submitted again. Let us, indeed, the documents and I guarantee here in Parliament that within three days, when the documents we request and the approvals we want are available, we will give the permission to release them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u82	Mr Panayotarus has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm sure you haven't been in this particular position for a long time. We've been trying to figure it out for a while. From the answers given to us by your Ministry and your fellow ministries, it turns out that the truth is not as you told us, not because you deliberately did. You spoke of ‘EVETAM S.A.’. You answer us and tell us that it has been designated by our service as a technical certification body for part of the type-approval directives. The EBITA documents contained in the file submitted by NAMCO - it is not the fault of NAMCO - that have been provided by BVETAM S.A. prior to its designation as a technical service and have not been updated in its new capacity. Therefore, the error is not of this company NAMCO. Below we read that there is a coma, as you said, that from 1-1-2016, and that it is all good, it can only produce two hundred fifty cars maximum. This is where a question arises. Is the European Union, which we are members of, for the sake of our country or not? There is a national effort to build a national car, which means that for the first time over four hundred jobs and production of six thousand cars - this is the design of the company, from what we have read, when it will at some point be able to produce the vehicles - and we see that there is the embroidery from the European Union. Like the European Union - the EEC at that time - it was also the cause of the company closing in 1983 and of stopping production of the then legendary Pony because of the abolition of protectionism, with Greece entering the EEC at that time. We are constantly talking about the abolition of protectionism, because only if we have protectionist Greek products and Greek workers, will our country be able to develop. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me two minutes. I would like to say that, in order to understand how this state should operate: as far as any bureaucratic obstacles are concerned, because only you have said that, in order to close the dossier, there are two - three papers missing - the government, the Prime Minister and the co-legislative ministers and not only, to help close the file, to enable us to start production and to get all together proud of the opening up of this company and to say that we have done what one should do in order to have growth and national production, something that, unfortunately, unfortunately, for reasons of ignorance - because, I repeat, most people who are running this place do not know how and how development is going - you do not do so. Finally, I would like to say about the examples of the companies you mentioned to us. All these companies do not manufacture vehicles but incidentally and some ambulances or others are based on vehicles that are not manufactured in Greece. Maybe that should've made you unpleasant. You know what I mean. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, may I speak for one more minute. To close, I read: "The Greek multipurpose car Pony defends the logic of simplicity and the Greek classic beauty. Philosophy we are vertically opposed to waste, demonstrations of arrogantness, apes and fashions of lifestyle. The Ponys add great value to your money. For more than thirty years, some public services have been on the market. After all, unaltered waste, cloaked the so-called growth, plunged our world into unprecedented inequality and vast poverty. In so-called fast track we compare fast back to hellenism, highlighting the human dimension, the place in the youth and the opening to creative mainly small and medium-sized ones, those who leave abroad, because they cannot find a job here in our country. To those whose technology today can and must make them competitive. In today's crisis, our answer is self-energy with a primary blow to inertia, psychological elevation with an explosion of cultural but parallel to intense export production." This is said by the old man otherwise - owner of the company Petros Janetos Kontogouris, whom we have not met, but we consider it worthy of the Greek who struggles to produce in our homeland. All together, within three days, you will have to help them close the file and fight to get a Greek vehicle into production so that tomorrow the Greek public services can take and not just such cars. It will certainly succeed in the competitions because it is highly competitive, with all the benefits to the Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. Mr. Sguridis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u85	I think in my prology I was clear. We have asked NAMCO to bring us some certificates guaranteeing, in accordance with Directive 2007/46, some of the accessories of the vehicle. These certificates have not been presented and the dossier has not been completed. We want to help NAMCO fill them out. But the company must move itself. The Ministry can't move for the company. That's very important. That is, if, indeed, the owner himself visits with his technical services the Ministry and asks us to help him on some issues, we will help him. But when he does not submit or visit and does not submit what we ask, how do we help him? I now come to the question of how it can be certified. On the basis of this directive there are national authorisations and European authorisations. National authorisations can also be granted by EBITA and also by branches of foreign home certificates in the country. EBTAM can also certify European approval, since some checks it cannot do because it does not have those technical elements, parts, machines, laboratories to control them, make them other homes. Therefore, as long as all the particulars that certify that a European approval vehicle is available to EBITAM come to EBITAM, EBITAM can grant European approval, thus producing more than five hundred or two fifty after November 2016. Here - because I see we all agree in this Chamber - we need to strengthen the construction capacity of the Greeks, because it provides work for the children who leave abroad. What I'm telling you and I want to stay is this: I wish NAMCO could come tomorrow, help her to produce the legendary Pony.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Sguridis. We are moving on to the last timely question for today. The fourth question will be discussed under number 284/8-12-2015, topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning "the intervention of the employer in the operation of the Association of Workers in Supermarkets "ARVANITIDE". The honourable Member has the floor, Mr Athanasios Bardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, very much - very much we all know of the measures taken by the employer to shield its profitability and, in particular, at such times as we are currently experiencing the capitalist economic crisis and its profits are being jeopardised. So when measures are not to be taken to suffocate and terrorize the working class, when threats to dismissal do not occur, the employer is to intervene directly in the functioning of the unions of the working class. It is a case of this kind that we are discussing today. In other words, we have a direct intervention of the employer at the Supermarket Association of Workers formerly "ARVANITIDE", today by the company "KARYPIDIS S.A.". In particular, the association called for a meeting to discuss the problems of workers. The company refused such a meeting on the pretext - I stress it - that it wanted first to be informed about the company's situation and course in the last few years, as the property is new and then to discuss with the employees. I said that it was a pretext, because immediately afterwards he filed an appeal with the Athens Peace Court to cancel the decision of the General Assembly and the elections to the Sanctions and Security Committee. Under this pretext, it does not meet the workers to discuss the problems that exist in the company. Such a practice is not new, it is not unprecedented. Let me remind you - and I say 'to remind you' - why there are similar questions from the Communist Party of Greece - that the same company has been followed up, listen to the workers who were going to the assembly of their unions. In fact, he was recording outside the Thessaloniki Work Center the workers who went in to participate in the general convention. While, in fact, they have been caught on their own and sued, since 2012 there has been neither a voice nor a hearing, and from what I hear this story is in danger of entering the file and doing nothing. Minister, instead of apologizing to the workers for the promises he made when he took over the company, i.e. paying them on time, he owes them two and three months together with the permit. So we ask what measures will you take to ensure the free trade activity of workers on the one hand and not to postpone the case with the monitoring of workers through the recording of 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u88	Mr Katrugalos will reply to his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, it seems, indeed, that the company, particularly under the former ownership regime, has a deserving past. Here I see that fifty-eight checks have been carried out, seventeen re-checks and the Labour Inspectorate has imposed twenty-nine fines in the last period. I also see that three monthly reports have been imposed by the Labour Relations Inspection Department and also by the subsidiary, a 'Marie ABEE'. Therefore, the Labour Inspectorate, which is the Ministry's arm for monitoring legal issues, has not acted out. As I have said several times to your party's questions, but also to other questions, and we see that there are far-reaching violations of labour legislation and we want to tackle the working jungle that many people want to bring into this area. On these questions, the documents we shall be filing in the minutes of the Parliament do not appear to show any action for annulment of the general meeting of unions by the company. So it seems to be confirmed by the competent court and the competent court of peace. As regards the inadmissible act - if, indeed, it proves - of the follow-up to the general meeting, there has already been criminal proceedings against five persons for the infringement of the corresponding article of the Treaty. 2472/1997. This document of the Prosecutors' Prosecutors of Thessaloniki shows that the case is in the process of being identified. There is, therefore, a delay, unfortunately, in line with the pace of justice, because of its well-known problems, in determining this case. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] However, there is no indication that the Ministry or the auditing mechanisms available to us to monitor the actions of the employer are not effective. In the future, we are going to step up controls if there is a corresponding violation of the law by the new administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you. You have the floor for the second time, Mr Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, let me make a general remark. First of all, I would like to confirm what you have said. Workers have indeed been aware of controls over the last few years, especially since we tabled the question. And I'm not talking about the topical question. Previously, we had tabled a simple question, which was not answered. There have indeed been such checks in recent years. But do you know all the time from the APRC what they told the workers? They said 'all right, you're right, but look at it with the employer'. This was the surprise, without substantial checks being carried out on the issues raised by the workers. The second thing I want to say is that I do not know if you know the facts. They've filed the application, the lawsuit, which I have here. You know what they're saying? Well, obviously you know, since you're gonna have it too. The elections are being cancelled and do not recognize the club's board - it says so - the elections for the Sanctions and Security Committee because they are taking part in these elections in a worker - who is elected - who has been fired about a year ago. So I'm trying to cancel these elections! However, this worker, who has been fired a year ago, is currently in the courts because he considers redundancies illegal because he was made redundant for trade union reasons. He was one of the founding members of the union. The union is new in its area, in Edessa, Naoussa, Skydra, etc. It's the elbow of the union. We know, of course, in such cases how each employer acts: the first person to take the head is the worker who moves, who claims his rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] On the basis of Law 1264, when the dismissal is pending, that is to say in the courts, the worker can remain a member of the club and therefore have all the rights he has as a member of the club, i.e. vote and be a candidate. It's a case like this. So what does he want to do? Why does the employer not try to cancel the election with the argument 'if half and one employee did not participate', that is 50% of all the employees in the company and is trying to cancel the election because the employee in question participated? Because he wants to use it in the trial he comes to legalize the dismissal of the worker. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I therefore think you should intervene in this process and through the APRC, because it actually shows the intention of the employer. And on the basis of that intention, it also makes it difficult to resolve a number of other problems. For example, what will happen, will workers be paid on time? Why would they be two months in, unpaid, hired. Why has the leave allowance not yet been granted? When will they be given? When will these problems be solved? In our view, the aim is to put the union in hand. That's not going to happen. Of course, they want to terrorise workers, which is not going to pass by the workers. Our opinion is that, regardless of the answer, in any case, to these specific issues, the main thing is that workers themselves should take the luck in their hands, fight against this situation, because rescuers do not exist without their own action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u93	On both issues of your dentistry and especially on the first, since I took up my duties - and so was the previous leadership of the Ministry of Labour - the message we have sent is what I told you before. Any illegitimate action taken by the employer will be dealt with with as strictly and as the legal order has put it. As far as I can see from the information note from the Labour Relations Inspectorate, the three-monthly reports that have been made at the expense of the company - I suppose the way it is with the previous property - were related to matters of trade union activity and redundancies. So, we've reacted as a Ministry of Labour to this situation you're describing. As far as the information I have on the judicial side of the case is concerned, it was the one I told you at the first reading. But anyway, as the way of parliamentary control is organized, it cannot reach and interfere with the legal section of the case by the courts. As I told you, what we can do as a Ministry of Labour is start the process, send the case to the courts. From there on, it is right, because of the distinction of powers, that we cannot intervene more. If there is room for other actions that we can do beyond the courts, as you know, we are at your disposal, so that the Association can accept, but also your physical presence, so that we can see the next steps. Because in the end I fully agree with the conclusion of your speech. Whatever we do, we can only have supportive character in the workers' struggles. What we can do primarily is to safeguard legality. Social games are resolved in the field of racing. They're not solved any differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will be taken at number 4/16-11-2015 timely question by Members of the Democratic Association of Christmas, Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Georgios Arvanitidis, Evangelos Venizelos, Leonidas Gregorakos, Vasilios Kegeroglou, Ioannis Koutsoukouou, Dimitrios Kremastiou, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, Andreas Loverdou, Ioannis Manatis, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Konstantinos Scandalidis and Michael Jelei to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the collapse of education. The first Member of Parliament, Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, today the government is asking the question through its competent Minister about what is happening today in the field of education. The government's policy brings to the surface and the field of education all the weaknesses and vagueness of its antimony speech. She promised everyone everything. The result? Spit everyone out! Minister, you must answer, firstly, for the gaps in schools. The delay is unprecedented. There is also inconsistency and lack of organisation and preparation. Mr Baltas said on 27 July that the gaps were about twenty thousand. The secretary-general stated on September 3 that the gaps were seventeen thousand two hundred. On the same day, Mrs Kiau said that the gaps were about twenty thousand. The Babylonian her all her majesty. We arrived in December and in schools there are missing teachers and teachers. So I ask you. How many gaps are today, you know? And what did you do to cover it up? It is a question concerning both parents and students and educational staff. We're coming to the deputys. You've reinstated them into an incredible suffering. They were obliged to submit and apply again. This was never the case until today. Even on the day of Sanctuation, applications continued. And all this because? Because the ministerial decision was never published in the FEK. Let me remind you last year, Minister, on 30 September the recruitment of assistants to primary schools, music schools and special education exceeded ten thousand five hundred, and this year the three thousand four hundred eighty-seven. The numbers are answering for your oligopoly. Second, deputys. I would like an answer here, Minister, and I would like an answer for the alterations made by the alternates by way of derogation from any legislative framework. This, Minister, has never happened before. I would also like a very clear answer to the continuing secondments of teachers to non-school bodies. It was two and a half thousand last year, four thousand this year. It is that the Minister would reduce them. Instead, he increased them by 30%. Thirdly, the decommissioning of public IEKs. For the first time, Minister, the public IEK was closed until 25 November. Why? Because the funds needed for the recruitment of eight thousand teachers and trainers have not been provided. Fourthly, you have joined the equivalent, Mr Minister, VAT on private education. You told us that you were imposed by the institutions. Of course, this is where you were disproved by the Commission. You raised a storm of reactions, created a huge turmoil in thousands of families, teachers, students. Of course, Mr Minister, you have received your answer from the results of the recent OELEI elections, where your resignation has been oppressed. Of course you've been exposed to your lies. We had to denounce you and denounce you. And you had to get it back. You have sought, Minister, to be equivalent to another tax on wine, but that is where you have had to retreat. Now what? What do you want? Do you want us to applaud you? No, we will not be viewed in the play "SYRIZA vs SYRIZA", entitled "The apprentice magicians". Fifth, exquisite experimental. Minister, you have an absolute responsibility because you have abolished and undermined all institutions of excellence. You abolished standards and experimental schools. In a legislative act, you abolished the institutions' councils from voting n. 4009/2011, the well-known Diamantopoulou law, which reminded you had been voted in favour of two hundred and fifty-five MPs in the three hundred, first time this happened. You are therefore responsible for undermining university evaluation. You're responsible for the oligopoly in IKY's scholarships. Sixthly, the lawfulness of asylum in universities comes again with an act of law. Let me remind you here, Minister, of the trabacisms in the teachers and external evaluators that took place in the EMCDDA. Here, bring the sole responsibility. Today, Greek scientists resign and leave abroad. Seventh, is it possible, Minister, in 2015, that we have party control over education? You have prosecuted, Minister, the party's participation in an element of education policy. Let me remind you here of regional training directors, thirteen in total, that the twelve of the thirteen workers are trade union officials and even trade union majors of the SYRIZA. Is it random? I'm just wondering. The answer is yours. However, I wonder. Why were their resumes never given to publicity? Why were their selection councils never formed? Mr Balta's statements were smoked, as he said. To proceed with the setting-up of educational councils. It's a long party's hand here. We have full partyism. To n. Article 42, Mr. Kourakis' commitment to the third member of the Commit tee ends in the basket of inappropriate Members. There's nowhere to be expected. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're coming to the selection of training directors. The process of their selection is unprecedented in educational terms. You were saying, Minister, that you would not bring an amendment to an unrelated bill. Result? You have forgotten your commitments. You have circumvented the Committee on Forestry and you have passed the amendment from the window to the draft law on grazing land, that is, Mr Minister, you have seen and contradict yourself. I make your statements on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, how you respect the institution of the training directors you proved it: a deadline for submitting supporting documents just two days - a fast track process, so - condemning the explanatory statement of No.4327/2015, a short-minute interview for the training managers, which you deserved with many praises and finally restored it by increased moleculosis. You degraded the n. 3848/2010 that laid down criteria and rules of assessment and merit, with a law to the limits of total colonisation. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the leadership of the Ministry of Education, with its current attitude, is viewed as the state loot. On the pretext of dialogue, he wishes to 'take over the Bastille', a dialogue which he does not respect in advance. He is torpedoed by legislative acts and amendments at all times. I really hope that after today's debate the Minister of Education will rethink his attitude and act as Minister of National Education, free from strangles and left-wing ideas. We, the Democratic Reconciliation, are here to make a positive contribution to a process of sincere and fertile national education dialogue. Of course, dialogue should have timelines, proposals, principles, consultation rules. To sum up, Minister, you are asking for the gaps, for the secondments of teachers, for the options, for the substitution of public IKKs, for the undermining of excellence, for the delays in the grants of the IKH, for VAT on private education originally imposed, for the undermining of the evaluation, for the qualitative degradation of universities, for the reinstatement of lawlessness in universities, for the party control of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the complete respect of time. Mr. Dimitris Kremastinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, this fact - the so-called 'Democratic Party' - which has been initiated by Eleftherios Venizelos and has so far managed to make the greatest and most substantial changes in education either with the Minister of Education George Papandreou or with Prime Minister George Papandreou with the reform of Papandreou, or with Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou with the reform of 1981-82. They were real reforms, for they actually brought a new spirit to education. The reform of Papanoutsos brought the essential free education, without caregivers and misconduct, which began to grow slowly in the coming years. Free education in universities, free education in middle schools, free education in basic education. When we say free education, we do not just mean not paying parents, not paying teachers. Free education means another ideological spirit, if you like, in education itself, because education is still outdated. Imagine that one of its senior organs is the Athens Academy. There's nowhere academy in towns. There is an academy of nations, the national academies of sciences and arts, the European, American and United States, where it has all the generations and production of scientists, young scientists, middle-aged and seniors, which are essentially examples. They are living instruments, not old academies, these academies we knew in the beginning of the century, like old European academies. That spirit has changed. Universities around the world today are production sites, not just an outbreak of teaching. When we say fountains of production, we do not mean a production of work. We mean a production of knowledge that affects the whole planet, because the word university - from universe and universal - is aimed at the new knowledge we give to the planet. Today, how many universities are universities producing knowledge? Germany has about 1/3 of the higher schools we have in Greece today. Is it possible to have a school of economics around every city where there is a university? Is it possible to have plenty of university teachers who can really be worthwhile but are they teachers, aren't they teachers of knowledge? How many, really, teachers of knowledge do we have today in Greece where their knowledge is lasting and with their knowledge spreading internationally and projecting the country? Of course, you will tell me: 'All these things are asked for by a government of ten months?' It is true, however, that this government is starting a new national dialogue which is a continuation of other national dialogues, and most likely that it will have the fate of previous dialogues, that is to say that another government will relaunch another national dialogue that will never be implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take time from my dilemma and from the other Members who will not speak. Why don't you proceed to too simple measures, in immediate steps? For example, why are you waiting for the national dialogue? There must be a merger of schools. In the same town, in the same district? There must be a merger of schools. That is why there is no need for national dialogue. When I see the subject raised by the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, I see that the first thing on the agenda for our universities, the highest schools, is democratic values. Without wanting to reduce the democratic values against violence, racism, diversity, the education of minorities, the sustainability of educational units, the self-interest of various levels, social care, access to cultural events, this cannot be the first. The first must be the economy, what Democrat said, "no money and no money". The student revolution of the 1960s had the slogan 'five in education', 15% of GDP in education. What is the GDP rate you are aiming to achieve? Based on this percentage, everything will be adjusted. Without knowing what proportion of GDP will be allocated, from there on national dialogues will be dialogues on ideas that exist. Speaking of national dialogue, why don't you call on the previous head of dialogue and if you want some of them to say right from the outset what you reject and what the newest one will suggest? In simple terms, why should a story of national dialogue be extended even for a few months, since in advance there are issues of common acceptance to which you can proceed. National dialogue can open up, continue, regardless of what measures you take and which must be national acceptance. We will all of course expect the revolution in high school, the exams, the introduction to universities which is a chronic problem. Will you tell me again 'we will resolve this as well'? Oh, no. But let's start over. So since we think with great idealisms with national dialogue, let us make a start. To come every time by the opposition speaking to the government in question and say 'we and you', the world is getting sick of it. But as far as "we and you" are concerned, we must recognise that some basic things have been done in education, such as the abolition of the seat and the introduction of the cognitive object, which unfortunately did not go ahead. In simple terms, we must bear in mind that education is an organisation that has brains, bodies and supports, legs. If you don't have legs, you can't walk. If you don't have a trunk, you can't move. But if you've got legs and torso without having a brain, in excellent condition being both, then you can't move either legs or torso. Don't underestimate higher education. Do not overestimate the other forms of education. It's all interconnected because they work as a single organism. Finally, simple measures must be taken - and we would like to hear them - about misery. Is there some kind of paramedic program to tell us right now? Do not expect the national dialogue to indicate why everyone knows what misery means and how it is practiced. In other words, we simply want to hear and in our second language, what the government is thinking about here and now - let me say - without waiting for national dialogue and what it expects from this national dialogue. Because to do so, he has previously rejected the previous one. Experience so far is the current law on education was a hybrid law. In other words, it came from some thoughts that universities wanted to make as a analogue of the Americans and then ended up accepting the same standards again, i.e. selecting lower grades and higher grades, which means that there is a transaction. Question. Where is this transaction on the planet? In other words, the Ministry of Education has in mind the universities, which the lower ones nominate with their vote. At least I don't know, but I might hear it. So if we want to stop this transaction, what measure do we have to take? I propose that the Ministry of Education bring in a law, for example, which says: 'I want to copy the first, second, third, fourth university in the world and because I do not have that kind of money, I shall necessarily copy the thirteenth, third, and twenty-fifth). However, it would be inappropriate to start and improvise and say 'Let us do this, let us do the other'. Then we will not talk about reform. We'll talk about something different. I do not want to call it a counter-reformation, because I believe that reform does not exist today. However, important steps have been taken which you must not demolish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured to the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", 50 students and students and three teachers from the 9th General School of Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been repeatedly stated to the Greek Parliament that reform in, must be based on the broadest possible social and political consensus, as well as on the involvement of the educational world, the world which will implement and implement the content of the educational reform. Faced with the above conditions, this government, like the previous one, has the impression that it has been in obvious misfortune, having chosen from the outset to promote a purely party program for the degradation of any form of reform or simple change that has been under way in recent years. In my short time of speech, I will only seek to show the political characteristics of governance for education. You started with the abolition of assessment of structures and staff and the fight against excellence in pilot schools. That may have been a position. However, no prior assessment of the educational acquis has been made. You have in practice cancelled an effort in recent years for better public schools, for schools of excellence and innovation and imposed an equilibrium downwards. You have, of course, implemented the SYRIZA programme by means of preliminary consultation, insisting on positions of extreme anachronism, for example that excellence is retaliatory. But also to pass, what you can't pass because you didn't, was to evaluate the project as it had evolved until then. You have also replaced the regional training directors through brief procedures just before the end of last year, placing young people solely on the basis of party or trade union action, of which - as you have heard - the curriculum vitae still refuse to testify despite our repeated questions. We must not look away to see the cause of the great, tragic, failure at the beginning of this year's school year. I have the impression - because I had heard something about one, a year and a half from the Prime Minister's mouth - that the hailstorms are hard to turn into good builders. This also applies to many areas of education policy, public policy or social policy. You continue with the election of school directors, proclaiming that democracy and collectiveness are being established in schools. The majority of cases have emerged from previous directors, but the indirect dependencies between educational staff and managers have now increased. You may have heard of directors under pressure and harassment for plans in the programme or of informal discharge from the administrative work of certain teachers. If not, I think you need to ask beyond the trade union circle, teachers, fighters in actions to tell you that this is a problem now. And there is because we have a process of electoral dependence, which is not all the directors, quite simply, looking for it by teachers, because they think they have been election supportive of someone to become a schoolmaster. You have reconstructed the service councils recently in such a way as to strengthen party control and customer dependencies, with regional directors being able to guide not only the composition of the boards but also the institutional changes of teachers. And since we're talking about it. Do you know that there is a problem of legality at the Central Council, Minister? Do you know that a Deputy Director of Education has been placed and not a Director, as foreseen? And that this poses a problem for the decisions of the Central Service Council? You have recently proceeded with the amazing innovation of changing the boards of selecting training directors, according to which the regional director proposes to the Minister that the members of his choice should be appointed. School advisor, board member, two members. The selection of the new directors is the following astonishing. Twelve molecules will be provided for the criterion of the secret ballot of school directors and fifteen for the interview, while the overall administrative and guidance experience of the candidate will be assessed with a maximum of four units and the total of the scientific and pedagogical units will be from nine to eleven, together with doctors, postgraduate and everything else. The interview will have fifteen molecules. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, could the time be added?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u101	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. This, if nothing else, is the worthyness of a SYRIZA, assuming that many will listen, few will understand and eventually work will be done. I personally doubt that, but that doesn't matter. It is important that all of this has never been elements of consultation and dialogue or had to do with some sort of reform. These are micro-party services, for the satisfaction of the party audience. They are late-night and often night-to-night products that flee to the barren land of your greedy parliamentary majority. You can still do it, but the whole project has nothing to do with education policy. The same practice was followed in tertiary education. In these days - and I am glad that Mr Gavroglou is here - another national and social dialogue on education has been announced. At the same time, the Ministry legislates using the method of'salariation' and the amendments, that is, we continue to change things, while others are discussing other things. Mostly, however, it legislates the Ministry with a driver in the past rather than a future. I fear, however, that neither intentions nor planning respond to the criticality of the situation and the circumstances. I am not going to mention much about the intentions. We all remember SYRIZA's attitude to education in recent years. By baptising any reform, any "deregulation", SYRIZA has undermined and stigmatized even the counter-proposal of the late Leuteris Papayannakis, insisting that the war of movement is important and not the war of positions. This concept was sealed in the view that even the closed school and the closed university can be tolerated, precisely because it is a bulwark of struggles and resistance. I will remind you, however, that closed school is a dead school and the closed university is a dead university for both you and the students for both us and everyone. It seems that the child's disease of leftism is not always healable, especially when it is accompanied by fantasies of a so-called revolutionary advancement that the university sees as an advanced prison of revolutionary gymnastics. SYRIZA has lacked and lacked a positive programming reason for the completion, design, implementation of a reform plan that will upgrade education. That is why you come to the dialogue without positions, without a specific proposal, but with a confusing process of multiple dialogue and decision-making that will be discussed on a zero basis. I wonder whether this is a zero base or a zero sum, but I do not want to prejudge. But what are we watching today? We are watching the war of competences between the institution board and the democracies, the abolition of the electronic vote, which has succeeded, and you know it has succeeded, because between us there were candidates for the institution councils. The electronic vote has therefore succeeded. You're removing it. Soon the theft of the poll will return, the reintroduction of the section will also not as an autonomous cognitive object but as a miserable feud of dependency. And, above all, you are moving towards the complete dismantling of evaluation and excellence at all levels. Offering opportunity, what do you think to do about the self - power of the open university? I recall that it has been passed by a law of December 2014. I would also remind you that this process, which has been initiated since then, had to be completed within a month, i.e. January 2015. Since then, we have had positions of ministers from the President-in-Office, but we have had no opening of the procedure a year later. I imagine you know this is an abusive exercise of power. Once again I think we should see what context we are moving. There are, in your view, ideologically clean positions, but rather, in our view, ideological positions and rusty practices, which seem to lead to a noisy political failure. The opportunity is lost for an exit of education from the crisis, based on the concept of democratic reform with the participation of the entire educational and academic community. The consequences of this blind starting point for dialogue and legislative initiatives will indeed be catalytic. They will be catalysts not so much for the legislation that existed, not for the law but for the operation of the university itself. Education is a public social asset. It requires major consents and long lasting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u103	Put a perfect one, Mr. Comrade. You've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u104	In thirty seconds I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you. That is why dialogue cannot and should not lead to a new adventure, a vague wish for a vague future. We are already paying a lot to the migration of a generation of researchers looking abroad for a favourable working environment and a scientific activity. The university, like education, does not need any other experimentation, they do not have any other strength and, in particular, Mr Ministers, the new generation cannot afford another lost opportunity and I think that you should not give it to her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are already close to three months, Minister, and your announcements - I have noticed them - are still empty in 100%. Mr President, first of all, the so-called dialogue, the national dialogue. We did not share this instrument in 2009-2010, because before us there had been dozens of dialogues. We took their findings and proceeded to action. It doesn't make any sense to throw the ball in the cradle to get time and to do things that you might think on the way. And let, Minister, that there is no draft law - and what we now have in the committees has amendments - after 20 September that do not have your own amendments. What dialogue is it that you are doing, when so many have been and what dialogue is it that you are doing, when we have in every draft law and an amendment - as colleagues have pointed out - in principle in favour of a state in the education of an absolute party? And what is your suggestion of dialogue? What do you know if you're not cheating? It is basically your political thinking, and this also poses risks for the course of this debate, in which we are involved. We're not SYRIZA. We'll welcome it if there's anything good to do. But basically, you mentioned as a new Minister the emphasis you will place on the public school. I listened very carefully to this and you had the humiliation of your party with the recent substitutes, which is why your announcement made sense at the time. But you've been on your way for three months, Minister. I'm a new minister. We add you to the seven previous ones. And I have a personal example, Mr. Philly. I've been here for seven months. But once I went, I had something in mind. And the first thing I had in mind was to open the schools. That is why we have tried with too much work to achieve what we have achieved with all of you across the street and with the trade union movement against which it is now doing you favors. You guys don't have anything on your mind. Apart from the general declaration in favour of public school - where we agree - we have not seen anything more specific, in addition to your amendments that build a party state but an old one. You're old-fashioned. You're in the sense of the party state that's been gone for decades and will never come back again. You bring them back. That's a parenthesis. If we did not have the experience of governance SYRIZA, Mr President, we would all be talking about what you are going to do. However, the fact that we have a SYRIZA - ANEL 11 months, allows us to make some remarks. The first point I make is that, fortunately, the locals have completed the two more and more localities, the Greek people will not be looking for them. The Greek people fell into two mockeries: the shading of the memorials day after day, page with the page, month after month, year after year, it was the New Democracy of 2011 and its own non-government, that is, the demagogy, which the Greek people now see unfold in front of it. He will not, at least in the near future, believe demagogues. I don't think that's an insecure prediction. I would say that we are in front of a very interesting period if there were no illusions and a maliciousness. The illusion of technocrats, in the years I have lived in politics, because I myself have been a university professor, as long as I have been politically coexistent, except for half an exception, and very much, everyone else has been for no reason, what has led to a shipwreck. We cannot have what is heard about technocrats, etc. We've paid them very expensive. It seems, however, that another great experience should be gained by the Greek people and their representatives, in order to put a mind on them. And a second, much more dangerous and saddening, because it lasts years, cruelty this time and not delusion, is that every new Minister considers life to be beginning with him. But it doesn't start with him, and life with him will be over soon, as all the ministers have shown in neural ministries. So you have to think 'what I'm gonna do in the short time I'm here', if you're Minister of Education and first thing you need to know what the previous and previous people did, so that one of these good things can go ahead as well. Why, there's no person who makes everything bad or who makes it all perfect. We all live in relatives. I, Mr President, want to make a reference to some of the loose ends that I gave up on a previous job to the next Minister who did not hear them. He went to pick up the Ministry of Culture, and that's not what he heard. This has resulted in the fact that I still have not informed the Minister on the substance. As it turns out, they knew everything. Life, however, proved exactly the opposite. I would like to make a reference, Mr President - and with it, to close my speech, to take my dentistry, and as long as it comes to my time colleagues who will not be speaking, they will only ask for five - on certain issues. SYRIZA was electorally saying that he would also make appointments without the SAEP. We were striving to make ten thousand assignments with ASEP, in very basic specialities (teachers, nursery, philosophers and mathematicians) to cover them once and for years without the burden of work and the insecurity given by the institution of replacement. And we had approved by the European Commission, provided, of course, that it would close the programme. I also delivered the relevant study by the then Secretary-General of the Ministry, Mr Kyriazis, with absolute details, to the next - not the Minister, did not sit down again - who told me that he was not dealing with the troika. The whole story sabotaged, but he sabotaged himself with the replacement procedures, which he was unable to do. Secondly, with regard to foreign-language undergraduate students outside the European Union with a tuition, on a report by Mr. Hadjikolaou, they seemed to Mr. Friends of Interests, but did not know that these were legalized and that the prior leadership of the Ministry never issued a presidential decree on 'whispers'. This resulted in Greek, undergraduate letters, for foreign students outside the European Union, in English and with tuition fees, moving as a project the "Democritus" University of Thrace, but leaving it there. They've been running since 2016. And these are resources, in the time of poverty and crisis. And I have not even taken a hammer if, Mr President - I am sorry for the expression, but I think it is a relief - when you talk to people who, instead of being philosophers, were philosophers of wine. I haven't got an answer. I have taken a regulation on postgraduate students - especially postgraduate students in Crete - who have a scary demand, especially from graduate students from African countries - so that IOTAP does not delay the recognition of their degrees, that universities do so. Did this go ahead? Has the Ministry's supervising leadership proceeded with this? It would be very useful for the Minister to tell us here. Thirdly, we had begun a number of efforts - and I have even given them - by working together with them, and I have also made a new wording of the IATA's response to those who ask for post-mutual studies, not to EIT what luck they have. With the data referred to in Article 16 and the Community directive on vocational training, we had dictated precisely the situation but not disappointing to the parties concerned, in order to be able to increase the number of students coming for post-medical but non-university education in Greece. What happened to that? How did these go ahead? We had made an interesting effort through the ESS and signed relevant ministerial decisions to alleviate the work of a primary school student so that he could get his sack out of school and not have a job this afternoon. I surrounded her with the type of ministerial decision, hoping that the next of them will make something positive. I would have implemented it. I delivered the relevant file to those who did not want to deliver and criticised the then Prime Minister who did not deliver. What happened to this attempt? Will the conversation begin again? Fifthly, we had again decided in the ERC that higher education institutions should decide on the number of importers. These decide and not say an opinion that goes to the basket of unusables. This process and dialogue and decision-making with entry into force in 2016 had been decided by the ERC and was also surrounded by the type of ministerial decision. What happened? How did that go on? They don't like it? What do they like? A new conversation in the first place? Sixth, universities' organizations that are very difficult, thorny indeed. We had undertakings to go on with them and, above all, the essential commitment of the need to have organisations, where the issue of eternity would solve the universities themselves. What about it? How have they moved on? What have they done? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. And a series of social school institutions stayed in the air. They're good actions. We are now being asked to discuss the concept of democracy, the things that we have inspired, but which we must transform in the appropriate ways in primary and secondary education. These actions had been started in a sense, without money, without money, with the voluntary contribution of various actors and bodies. What about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u107	And that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u108	Minister, political time in the middle of a crisis is very dense. You're old, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u109	But it's all over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u110	Three months are many and ten to eleven more. The dialogue should take place where, in the minds of leadership and in the House, projects for immediate action and implementation exist. I also told you in the House to use the institution that covers the problems of non-continuation of actions at the Ministry, the National Council, the Council of the former Ministers of Education. Whatever comes to you, only profit is to have you and the education system as a whole in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u111	Let Mrs. Kefalidou say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u112	That's what I'm closing down with, Mr. President. As education goes, it will compete with immigration for what sector is going worse. Today we hear that what Mrs Christodoulopoulos and others said in the first time is going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Loverdo, the question is about education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u114	Illegal immigrants, for it turned out that the problem was not just refugee, will go to Greek, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u115	Respect a little time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u116	Do not compete with this area of government action on what will be the worst. This does not allow the anguish of all Greece, of all citizens, of the progress of education and education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u117	Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Madam and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest and most serious reform that has been under way in recent years in the country has been that of education from PASOK and Anna Diamantopoulou. Contrary to our parliamentary tradition, the Minister at the time guaranteed maximum parliamentary support for this reform. Two hundred fifty-five MPs, four fifths of the parliament. In the difficult days we live, education should be at the heart of all parties, away from party purposes, desecrated moves and anachronistic choices. Unfortunately, the leadership of the Ministry of Education, meeting demands from its trade unionists, in a few months' time, canceled achievements and reforms that the educational community has been struggling for years. If something were done by our own reform in education, it was because, as a opposition between 2007 and 2009, we were actively involved with positions and proposals in the then established Babiniotis Commission. We continued where the previous government stopped. We didn't tear down the good things we found, but we made use of them. We have advanced extensive and sincere dialogue with all actors and all parties. Neither hasty nor pretext. All the material of the reform for primary, secondary and tertiary education, bills, ministerial decisions, programs, pilot actions, there are at the Ministry of Education and were posted on the Ministry's website. All this material, however, disappeared in a ministerial capacity, Mr Balta. Why, Minister? This effort was financed by the PASOK government through ESRB with many actions, such as the digital school, at all levels. Yours, Mr. Baltas, has stopped the NRP with a criminal about the educational system. Why? Minister, we have all listened with great interest to your announcements to launch another debate on education. We assumed that you would take a step further, taking advantage of everything that has already been done, taking advantage of the extensive consensus that has been reached. I would remind you that the National Dialogue Committee in 1985 involving parties, in which SYRIZA has never participated. National Education Council with the participation of educational and economic actors. The reforms adopted by these two institutions and started in 2010 were then discussed in the Parliament's Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which took into account the work done in the previous governments of the New Democracy. In that dialogue everyone, institutions of education, work, parents' associations, economic operators, businesses, the agricultural sector, people with disabilities, people who represented gender equality were involved. Of course, when there is a digitised law, there will be changes, improvements, corrections. But such a large majority in the House meant that, for the next ten to fifteen years, the law will be tested, delivered, improved. You, instead of sanely moving forward, say that you will reinvent the wheel and start from scratch. Dismantle everything to rebuild what you have in mind from the beginning. Why can't you just destroy what your previous people do, even if it's good? Why don't you like Greece's badge and everything should have SYRIZA's badge? You are using dialogue as a pretext, so that as long as the debate is done, you can legislate wrongly through acts of legislative content, amendments to unrelated bills, with the top of it for grazing land, with common ministerial decisions. You have announced that, in order to deal with critical malfunctions, we are moving towards individual legislative initiatives, which in no way prejudge the results of the necessary national and social dialogue. What legislative initiatives are you referring to? In the opaque process by which you select party officials for the positions of thirteen regional training directors, who were so remarkable that the twelve are members of the SYRIZA and one executive of the ANELs? On the selection boards of school directors where the president is the regional director and was so haste that the two of the three non-substitutional members were appointed without invitation, without even applying, without ranking? Really, how did you do that? Did you have a list ready? And since the board will do whatever it wants, it must be a board that wants what SYRIZA wants. The wise legislator didn't leave it in his luck. Because if the board of directors were to be set up, as foreseen by Law 3848/2010, it would not be fully controlled. That's the truth. And is it a coincidence that no tables of L.3848/2010 were offended? Or your legislative initiatives refer to the university administration boards, which at night were abolished by legislative acts. But we're not worried. You don't leave anything to his luck. With the flawless commemoration of the bill you brought, that dreadful dip page with the twelve acts of legislation, you have succeeded in all the procedures and circumvented the Constitution. Are these the democratic values you are talking about on your agenda for education? What democratic value can this be tolerated? Why does the reversal of the dissolution of universities bother you? Why don't you ideologically tolerate excellence? Why do you do what goes through your hand to level everything? So will you continue to legislate? The Minister does not hesitate to institutionalise everything that suits the SYRIZA - ANEL, in the context of always promoting the consent requested by the Prime Minister from the President of the Republic. Will this really be the new education dialogue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have announced and promoted within the Committee on Morphic Affairs of the House, the announcement and establishment of the Committee on Social and National Dialogue, as well as the National Education Council, which will be reconstituted, the national and social dialogue on the necessary major reforms and areas in our country's education. We're not struggling with the syndrome that we're going to find the wheel. We know that substantial steps have been taken, which in some cases gradually reflect requests from the university educational community and the newly-populated movements in the past, which we have no intention of abolishing, on the contrary we want to enlarge. They are the conquests of democracy. We believe, however, that there are new problems, which must be dealt with today, in the light of, unfortunately, an unfavourable reality, which is the severe economic crisis. We do not want the school and, more generally, education to function in defence of the crisis. Oh, no. It must, however, be taken into account. Otherwise, one is promoting sectors and reforms that meet a GDP of EUR 230 billion and a GDP of EUR 170 billion. We therefore need to take these issues into account - we are not etheric - so that the necessary democratic changes and modernisation in the field of education at all levels meet the real economic opportunities. It would be a mistake to confine itself to them. It must have a horizon, a range of objectives. That is to say, a reform that will not stop today's and economic difficulties, but will have a range of at least four years. Because educational reform in a few months cannot exist, it would be a caricature. I have already heard from the PASOK colleagues the call for the magic number of two hundred and fifty five, which are the Members who voted for the law by Mrs Diamantopoulou. Apparently, it's an impressive number. But what happened and collapsed along with the two hundred and fifty-five of education and the two hundred forty of both the Papademos government? Evidently those who invoke these figures do not understand that there has been an incision to the political developments in the country, that these figures do not exist anywhere today, not artificially within the House, but in society. We are in a phase of crisis of representation, which the people today give their initiative to a left-wing government, to a government of cooperation with the ANELs, and it gives us the initiative of moves not to establish a free party regime - Alas! - but we should give everyone a co-operation hand. And that is dialogue, and that is the initiatives we will take in the field of education. But forget the numbers two hundred and fifty five. They respond to history, not today's reality of society and politics in our country. The same numbers - I repeat - were there for the government of Papademos. Where is he? Where is the political staff, the protagonists of these large numbers in the House. Look at each other. Where are these parties and personalities? Nowhere. That means something. It means a people's mandate, a democratic mandate for changes to continue. Keep going. No objections. But with areas, realizing a new social, economic and political reality. On this basis, there will be a consensus rather than a return to the past. I must tell you that the educational reform at all levels really needs money. Not only money, but I'll stay in the money. If, despite hope, the people did not overturn the brutal majority of the two hundred and fifty-five Members and let them rule today on the basis of the medium-term programme that they had voted as a government, do you know where the budget would be today? On the basis of today's education budget, we have swept the fall for the first time after five years to 2.8% of GDP. If there were the government of the two hundred and fifty-five, which you invoked earlier, we would be even below EUR 300 million with the aim - look out, it also matters! - in 2018, this is how your medium-term, which will fortunately be abolished, fell to 2% of GDP. Is that how you imagine there's going to be an educational reform? Is that right? By subdividing education expenditure to 2% of GDP? We have made a mistake this year to 2.8% of the downward trend in the Memorandum and we are ready in the light of developments, budgetary developments, to further increase expenditure this year. We have also referred to the fact that we have been investigating massive recruitment of permanent staff in the field of education in the course of the budget debate. This will increase from this year, if it is done, drastically, the public funds for public education. This year we do everything possible in the light of the suffocating conditions that you inherited us. Because the mess we had today in September this year is a mess created by your own governments. Tens of billions of years have been wasted at a terrible party and in the field of education, without creating permanent infrastructure, without creating the conditions necessary for permanent staff in the field of education. You worked with the NSRF and the deputies, when this money was not to effectively recruit permanent staff disguised to substitutes but was for other public education upgrades. Instead of being more careful, instead of feeling the political damage you have done in the field of education and, more generally, the national damage you caused with your policies in the field of education, you come here and ask for the amazing title of 'Full education'. These cheap anti-political pirouettes, "Firming education" do not correspond in reality to the Greek people's consciousness. It seems - I do not know if this is your pursuit, I hope it is not - to act as public education underminers. Because a derogatory presentation of the possibilities of the public school, of the battle that teachers give, of the battle that society gives to support and upgrade the public school, of a denounced opposition tactic, of 'Scrupulous education', when we give money, of struggles, of changing attitudes in the school's area, is an opposition cheap mentality, which - badly lies - others helps. It helps the great economic interests, which aim to undermine public education in the consciousness of the Greek people. And it is shameful for this policy to be followed by a party, PASOK, which during its government life made many mistakes but at least wanted to support the public school. Of course, I take the opportunity from what you said to say: Look, if some have overthrown themselves in a very short time, if ministers have overthrown reforms made by previous ministers, that is an originality in the PASOK area. The reform, as was then called Arsenis, as you have seen, has been reformed by the euphoria reform. Mr Cremastino referred to the history of democratic tradition, which we all honour, and we are also part of this democratic tradition of major reforms in the field of education - part, I mean, the reforms of the 20th century. Because Papanoutsos was there because there was the whole movement of educational reform, in which he also took part, with the conclusions and the programme of the RIP on the issues of education, and then on the light contribution of large teachings and the Left, such as Sotiria, Impriotis and others. So, in there, we are. We know that in the 20th century, there was indeed a democratic direction for reform. Unfortunately, however, this direction of reforms in recent years has changed because it has prevailed both in our country and in Europe, the example of neoliberal school, what is questioning the universal right, the right to all of them to education, what it wants to give the so-called deserving education. Unfortunately, this is - one would say - the price of the general ideological mutation of the PASOK and the way it left the social-democratic road for the benefit of a socially-liberal consensus. This is also the price in the field of education, the abandonment of this great cave of this great covetous current, the educational democratic reform of the 20th century, which has been in the hands of the democratic forces or the civil liberal democratic forces together with the Left for so many years. I would not like to go any further into a debate - but you have unfortunately opened it - which in my opinion calls into question the need for consensus and dialogue today before consent. We are not asking each one to forget his or her ideological origins. The question of education does indeed have ideological origins and ideological gatherings, which largely identify the policy we are going to pursue. However, the question of education also has a large part, which, I would say, is the common good. In the name of this effort, the search for the common good, which is the education of all the children in our country, the development of our country, so that from the crisis school we can go to the development school, we call for an unaffected, unprecedented, national and social dialogue. I don't understand exactly, the PASOK to what extent it wants to participate. I heard contradictory things. I hope that this dialogue will take place with all the political forces. I also hope that this dialogue does not have as a prerequisite to continuing everything that has been done. Then there is no need for dialogue. Not to break it all down, but not automatically to continue everything that has been done. On the specific issues that you mentioned, it would be tiring to refer to numbers again, but you are forcing me. Within the collapse that you created in the public school, within the collapse of the budget that is your own work of so many years, within the party that was created with Community funds and in the field of education, a party of "better" and of great economic interests - Mr Arsenis says so well, if you read his book about it, I do not have any other lawyers - we have tried to create minimum conditions for the uplift of the public school. It's not rhetoric, it's practical policy. It is the attempt to reconstitute, to create even greater credibility in public school. We hired twenty-two-sixty-sixteen alternate teachers in elementary school, kindergarten and secondary education for eighteen thousand four hundred sixty-nine last year. So we hired four thousand forty-seven more substitutes compared to last year, 22.45%. In particular, in special education schools, we have recruited a record. Two thousand four hundred sixty-sixty-eight special staff were recruited for a thousand forty-two last year, an increase of 49.59%. This is money that the Greek people pay. It's money we use from the ESRB. But, I repeat, responsibility for this story is not ours, it belongs to what you inherited us. I would like to refer to two important points. Inside the crisis we emphasise the fulfilment of the educational and training needs of the poorest children. False witnesses are two clues. The first: Students and, above all, PSA students in the second class, where specialties begin - and we brought specialties mainly involving girls - rose from 32% last year to 40% this year. So we've got an eight thousand students increase, mostly students, or 25%. Listen, we're fighting the student leak. When eight thousand children return, and especially girls, to the PSAs in the second class, this is a tangible example of what leftward progressive intervention in the field of education means. Secondly, the EEK, which opened up this year in mid-November, also has an increase in the student population of about twenty thousand, and we expect this to be extended, to increase further. Of course there needs to be a national plan, a strategy for technical education and training, because now we have fragmented actions, fragmented lyric and metabolised specialities and activities to be linked and that is what we will do, and that is a choice that we have as a government, but also a commitment under the agreement, starting with 31 December this year, in the dialogue that we have with the institutions. It is clear to us that further strengthening of the public school with actions that I mentioned, as well as restoring the reinforcement of teaching, are social measures of compensatory policy, so crucial for the future of youth at times of crisis. Now let's go to distraction. I am sorry, but “the wing is bad for his head.” Mr. Loverdo, I have you in front of me. In the school year 2014-2015, in the few months you were there, you extracted seven hundred forty-five primary school teachers and a thousand nine hundred secondary school teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u121	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u122	Since we received the Ministry's leadership, we have made thirty-seven secondments of primary school teachers, who belonged to areas with a surplus of staff. We didn't remove anyone from class. Specifically, we extracted thirteen teachers in universities, nine in libraries, four in the state's special archives, three in public IEK, four in education addresses, one in the U.S., three in church academies. At the same time, seconded teachers from the Ministry's departments and bodies were given the opportunity to attend schools to address the problem of gaps. As far as secondary education is concerned, we did thirty-eight secondments of teachers. Do you want to do the sum? Two thousand and fifty, as far as I can see, are - I say briefly, Mr Loverdo - the distractions of the 'non-partisan' state of Loverdus, against thirty-seven and thirty-eight, about eighty-eight, of the 'partisan' state of SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u123	You're not embarrassed, you fucking liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u124	What's that? Please, Mr. Loverdo! Do not write anything in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u125	We have committed that, in consultation with the competent bodies, there will be a drastic reduction in the number of secondments of teachers, starting from the parties, self-government, church administration, as well as other government agencies. This measure will be implemented from next year, 2016-2017. We did not want to implement it this year because we would create a disturbance to the already precarious educational reality. I have to tell you that every year until June, starting in June 2016, transfers, secondments and recruitment tables will have to be finalised, so that schools will be able to plan better in the school year. And because we're in love, we're telling you, with the effort we've made this year, we've got far fewer gaps since last year. There are really gaps, but also fictitious gaps and the effort of the service changes, which we are making - you will soon see - to this tends, to limit the plastics and to address the real gaps in education. Will the problem of gaps be resolved? I don't support it. Because there is a very important issue, which also concerns the renewal of the older education population, an issue of permanent appointments. And the truth is that the years of the memorandum collapsed the educational potential, about thirty thousand teachers left and recruitments did not exceed a thousand. In the last two years it's been zero. Therefore, no one can put their hopes on the recovery of the school to the heroism of the staff and the struggle for parents. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] There must be permanent appointment measures and, depending on budgetary developments, the government has committed itself to recruiting. It will certainly be hiring, but the scale of recruitment will be determined by budgetary developments. I shall seek your study of the ten thousand hires, Mr. Loverdos. I hope it responds to budgetary possibilities at that time. We, however, do not end up with studies in the next Minister. We are forced to apply them by using previous studies. This is a difference in political reality, where today SYRIZA is government and you are a party of minor opposition. With regard to merit, I do not want to go back to the debate that we all know about in the field of education. We are in favour of dignity in education. That's a word. We are therefore all in favour of dignity. But we need to see what our behaviour is. Will you tell me'swine grapes last year'? Oh, no. There needs to be credibility when a criticism is made. I would remind you that when PASOK came to the government in 1981, it abolished the entire model of the hierarchical administration system, general inspectors, etc. One will say that he did this partly - I say this - because he had to deal with a regime, the regime of the previous many years, what you called 'the right state'. And partly in the field of education, despite the serious steps taken by the government with the Minister of Georgios Rally, i.e. some reforms essentially in the direction of the Papanoutsos reform, which was the self-criticism of the New Democracy at the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u126	Put a perfect one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u127	No, I'm not putting an end to it! Please. I know my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u128	You will have the opportunity to speak in your dentistry again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u129	I say that, at the time, it was necessary for the new PASOK to set up institutions to make use of not only of new people, but also of new educational and administrative practices. Identify this new one to us too! It was not the end of the new one in 1981. We are not always a regime today. We are a new political reality, which wants to be able to exploit new people, not by party criteria - we do not have that possibility, and we do not want to see - but meritfully in the field of education. And what we're doing - so we don't get out of hand - it's not something terrible and terrible. It is the selection of fifty-eight primary and fifty-eight secondary education directors, whose five-year term expired on 31 August 2015. Shouldn't we get new managers out? Can we extend their term of office further? Is that what you're asking? The current government extended its term of office to the selection of young people, from August, until the new ones came out. So why do you object? The selection of young people will be carried out by the law which has just been adopted, i.e. by amending the two previous laws. When we said there was going to be a direct vote by the elected directors and vice-presidents of the school units, we were told that we were going to establish a party state. Others were telling us that we were going to conduct a union of education. Earlier, Mr Papatheodorou said that this, namely, electoral dependency, poses problems of dysfunction in education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u130	You stress it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Papatheodorou, I stress it. I take this into account. I don't blame you. So when we were the absolute and unique criterion, which was the election of the training directors by the elected primary school directors, we are dealing with it and putting other elements, such as the elements of the personal evaluation, their doctoral qualifications, and the evidence of the interview, why are you accusing us? What exactly do we do, when there were twenty units the interview - take care of a minute! - to the previous law - be careful, 20! - And we put fifteen? You must judge us - and I accept this debate - from the result, but the structure and criteria of the choice of primary and secondary school directors are objectively respected. They can turn to choice. We'll have a conversation then. No objections! But do not talk, on the basis of the political requirement not to change anything in the field of education, in other words not to govern a new government, but to govern with the faces of the deep green and blue states! You have said a number of things about closed public IEK. I told you that we have a 20% increase for students in public IEK this year. It is proof of the government's interest in satisfying the needs of the poorest people's populations, as well as of the fact that we are trying with the second-rate posting of teachers in both the IEK and the second- opportunity schools to address these needs. We're not hiding our weaknesses. These are economic weaknesses. What can we do? We know. We started on 15 November and we're on our way. We have drawn up and submitted to consultation an integrated framework for the certification of quality and public IEC. Now, in the matter of universities, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, who is responsible for universities, will speak immediately afterwards. I would just like to say one word: dialogue is necessary for the universities too. We cannot have the unbaptised, we cannot have the “ten commandments of Moses”, called Diamantopoulou. Oh, no. We need to have a dialogue based on experience, by listening to academic bodies. All the arrangements we have submitted and will be submitted will be at one or the other level with the agreement of the university bodies and, in particular, of the government. Let's check it out for that too! There are also new problems in the field of higher education, such as the need to create a single higher education and research area, such as postgraduate studies, which is a major problem - which must be addressed. The most important thing, however, is that we should have in mind - that is why we are talking about a national dialogue on education - the nodes that unite the various levels. And one hub is the conversion of today's guidance schools, as they are called, into schools which will be able to produce through particular educational training and procedures, teachers for primary and secondary education. Because it is not reasonable to think that anyone who ends the university, as a scientist, a mathematician, a physicist or anything else, also has the possibility of education and training to function in the field of education. We need a change there too. It is not a precondition for us to proceed with appointments now. It is, however, a prerequisite for the progress of the system in the field of education. There is the question of the examinations. We're not ahead of each other. We do not want to create problems and overthrows in the field of education. We will also discuss in their time - I repeat that the process of educational change and reforms is not a few months old - we will also move on to changing the system of access for children to higher education. I conclude with an issue that has been emblematic in the criticism of SYRIZA, the most famous theme of excellence. Let me make it clear that we have nothing to do with excellence. We're in favor. It's the other thing. The question is whether we will consent to the creation of a network of sixty, seventy, eighty, hundred schools - supposedly - of excellence throughout the country that will be the alibi to leave the remaining four thousand schools to submerge. That's the point. The question is whether we will consent to the fulfilment of demand by middle-streets for the creation of a network that will satisfy about 12 000 pupils and leave over one million students in their luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u132	Minister, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u133	So we do not think that there should be standard schools in this sense. We think there should be experimental. We're fighting this fight. Experimental has, as you know, features. It cannot be a model where teachers are qualified and children are qualified. So they come to the wrong conclusions and there is no experimental character. I would also like to say to you - and I am ending this - that we are, of course, maintaining historical standards. That thing is clear. We do not, however, go into a story of a chain of standards, in the sense of evaluation, namely that a child in twelve - thirteen years is worthy and the others are less or less worthy. We do not enter such a process that we distinguish adolescents from excellent and bad, from inspiring the consciousness of failure at a critical age. As my predecessor at the Ministry of Education had rightly said, Mr. Aristides Baltas, we want the excellent school that is unlike the school of excellence, at least as neoliberalism defines it. Our aim is for all schools in the country to be gradually, step-by-step, excellent schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is also a matter of pedagogical importance to keep time. I would also like to inform you that Mrs Christophilopoulos, from SYRIZA, from New Democracy Mr. Fortsakis, from Golden Dawn Mr. Papas, from the Democratic Asylum, from Christophilopoulou, from the KKE Mr. Delis, from Potamis Mr. Mavrotis, from the Golden Dawn Mr. Zouraris and from the Central Association Mr. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a quite general and incisive speech from the Minister of Education. The least is, if some answers were given to the complaints and criticisms made by the Members who spoke on behalf of the Democratic Alliance. Minister, I will try to decode what you have told us, trying to figure out exactly where we are. However, one thing is certain: we are not in 1981 and Mr Tsipras is not Andrew Papandreou! One of the prisoners. Let's go a little bit further and get to the point of education. You said, Minister, that all these sufferings we have testified to you, and you have satisfied us, because we said that education was falling apart, they were accumulated as a result of the memoranda. And since the Democratic Association and the PASOK do not like the beauty of everyone or even the levelling-out of everything, as you do, as you do, what you do with a reason that is is isotropic, I would say, and you denounce everyone and deny everything, we tell you that education has been severely affected indirectly by the Memorandums. It is, however, the third and best Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, which laid the essence of education, the evaluation of the education system itself in cooperation with the OECD, within the framework of n. 4336/2015, i.e. I went down to the third memorandum. And here, Minister, you have to say why. And you don't have to tell us why. You need to speak the word in the middle teacher. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Education - I read from the law - are committed to aligning the number of teaching hours per staff member and the proportion of pupils per class. It's inside the Memorandum. It is the "first time left" that put the number of students in the third memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos. So that's what you have to tell us. Why does the Memorandum also say, Minister, that in April 2016 you should present a report. And by the way, I ask you: Where are the procedures for this number of students' reports per class? I would also like to ask you this: Your predecessor, Mr Baltas, last autumn, before the elections, had told the ERT that doing more than a few hours more is a good and voluntary thing in the crisis. If we dared, Minister, half of what Mr Baltas said to have been saying, Athens would have burned for the third time. But we're not going to pay you equal. We ask you a question and it bothers you, from what I have heard, even that. But I come down one step further than the last thing you said. I'll talk about the first things you said about the famous story of training directors. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I shall present to the Minutes a table showing the substance of the matter. Listen to me, Minister. You said, therefore, that you have the right to legislate. First of all, Mr. 3848 he had fifteen molecules and not twenty, as you said, in the interview. Note, however, how he nominated the Minister of Education from not selecting the "nationals". Absolutely - because I do not like, as I told you, to be good - he did not demarcate him, but he was demarcating him. Therefore, Minister, your dear colleague, SYRIZA, Michel, was one of the training directors chosen by this process. What was this procedure compared to the law, or rather with the last-minute amendment to the draft law on grazing land? What a beautiful way of coining! But what can one expect from a government that says it is democratic and in seven months has brought fifteen POPs, most of which have nothing to do with memorials and urgency? One of them is education. So I return to that, Minister: Only the fact that you still put your regional postmaster in the chair, and we were calling a president, or that we were serving as the chairman of a pedagogical department or a Pedagogical School for Pedagogical Education. I go to the members: In the case of the 2010 law, he said "two members of the Pedagogical Schools Pedagogical and Pedagogical Departments" - take note - "not chosen by the Minister, who suggests to him by the Rector Councils". Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, isn't that a delimitation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u136	You abolished disciplinary boards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u137	Wait a minute, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u138	You've done away with it. Let's make it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Philly, you spoke thirty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u140	You're right. You have abolished disciplinary boards. What are you asking me now? Upstream is what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u141	Mr. President, will you protect me? Is there any chance I can talk without the Minister interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u142	Sure. We are not interrupting, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u143	Did I interrupt the Minister? Minister, you spoke thirty minutes while you had twenty. I too want your tolerance, Mr President, to develop my thoughts. Why did you tell us inaccurate and inexhaustible?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u144	I'm sorry, I said disciplinary boards were abolished. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u145	All right, we're gonna have a dialogue now, okay? Mr President, at least my time. So I say again, and I will table the table, that two IGC members, proposed by the Prime Ministers - and I am not speaking of the tertiary, Minister, I am speaking about the members who judge the regional directors in your own law, the amendment to the grazing land - are appointed by the Minister. He defines whoever he wants. We have made proposals from the universities so that the Minister does not designate anyone he wants. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't laugh at all. I am therefore tabling this table in the Minutes to see exactly the difference between the rough amendment of grazing land and that of full legislation - with improvements, I am not saying. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Friday (Egy) Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would even say that there is going to be a debate if, as you said, there is going to be an unrelenting dialogue with you to find a system. Decentralize it? These are questions, Minister. If we decentralize it, how will we ensure dignity when it's decentralised? Why do we believe that the system could be further decentralised, with what safety test, however? Because I told you one of your own MPs, Mr. Michelis, but we have others belonging to the New Democracy, PASOK, Potami - anywhere worthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u146	It's one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u147	Excuse me. One? Okay, see and read the table of comparison of the two laws, to see that at least of us there's an attempt to demarcate the crisis of the respective minister to define him or whoever he wants. But let's go one step further. What did you tell us, Minister? You told us not much or much that you had an election victory and you took a percentage of about 36%. Well done. We told you and congratulations that evening too. Well, congratulations now. You won the elections twice and one referendum three. Let's go see. You got 36%. Does this give you the right to abolish everything by means of amendments and by PPP? What did you do to the universities? Repeat the eternal students. I want you to tell me a serious institution or even a moderate institution of the developed world, one of the good universities, which has such a system of eternal students. One tell me, just one. Secondly, it is the electronic vote. That is what my colleagues have said. Why did you abolish it? So you wanted to change the law of Diamantopoulou, because our people voted against us, as if the people voted against this law. Our people voted against and brought in another government, for many reasons that are not the time to tell them. If you really wanted unrealistic dialogue with tabula rasa, why did you make all these speeches so that you could actually remove all responsibility from the administrative boards? And, as it turns out, if you answer that - from the leaks and the publications on the new law, are you preparing, while there is a committee, ladies and gentlemen, to bring a law now? Well, are you kidding us? Will you bring a law that goes down and further? And because the troika has fought you a little and you've taken back the total abolition of command councils, are you now suggesting that they have a purely suggestive role? Tell me, who is qualified university from abroad and abroad - because we have an excellent university potential here in the country, with international publications, with investigations, people who fight in the universities, people who fight their own science with care and potential - will accept to take part in these management councils, which will, in fact, be totally 'qualified', without any, but none at all, but only in any way suggestive? In addition, what role does the students play and the student vote? Because what has leaked, Minister, brings us back to a situation of students and resignations. That's where the complication is. And it's big too, you know that. The leak says that even five to vote and one to vote, the student vote counts as a single one and there is no weight. It might not be like that. Disprove me. I wish you wouldn't deny me. But I ask you, how are we going to have a dialogue and you're going to legislate? At least, before n. At the time, the Ministry of Education had not brought any amendments to the EIT. He was law-abiding, as long as the dialogue was over. He never legislated. He respected it. What exactly do you respect? Do you want the opinion of others? You want to build on good? And now I come to secondary and primary. You told us a lot there, too. I would also like to ask you this: there were some ESDP-funded programmes. Some of the members of the Education Committee, which you have chosen, have been a pioneer in them. For example, Mrs. Tedrinou, an excellent teacher, was a leading teacher in these curricula. Mrs. Thalia Dragon, too. Mr. Chelfi was for a while. You now have him President at the IEK. They're high school teachers, and not just. They're experts too. I did not say to you - and I never expected you - that these curriculum programmes should be taken as they stand, but that you should make a quick assessment, put on themselves and others like that committee that you set up and actually see the curriculum programmes. Don't throw them in the bucket of unusable people like you did. Then you talk to us about public school. The public school in order to make it right, starting from the full day, which provides other possibilities for students: Philagnosia, dance, more sport. These municipalities, the ESAs, the reformed programme that we have introduced has been a great success, because they have given students, beyond the classic full-day, and possibilities beyond matter, if you like. We must move away from all this focus on matter and go to the ability of children to create, to be able to open, to have other teaching methods that cultivate the spirit of partnership, but also to seek learning, not just the learning of fun, where the child listens to and memorizes. So in these schools - there were also the improvements that Mr Loverdos told you - we were aiming and aiming. All your predecessors have also founded from such a school. You two don't have one. Well, I'll tell you something about the gaps. You may be right personally because you received after September the school and partly the gaps are not your fault. But I'm going to say something because you very easily said that we were to blame for the gaps. Well, no, for this school year that started in September, we cannot blame! And tell you why. Because the preparation of each school year - and I know that - is starting or rather going to have to start at such a time. By the way, it's December. Is the Circular of the Teacher's Transfers? I'm saying maybe she's out. You'll tell us. So, Minister, since last year you took over, it arrived August and the good distractions, that is, the school postings, had not taken place. It was September that we had an election and your predecessors, Mr Baltas and Mr. Kourakis, forgot to go up the FEK for the deputys for whom you boast. And you had them in the midst of sanctification and first weeks running and suffering. And it's not that they've only been afflicted by them - and I'm sure they share that - but they've been afflicted, mostly, by the children in the ranks and the parents. At least that's why I'd expect some kind of criticism. I recognise that it does not concern Mr Nikolaos Friends as Minister of Education. It's about Mr. Balta. But I would expect at least one criticism from you, because this is just 100% mismanagement of your own government. So you have to apologize. And as far as IEK is concerned, 25 November had never happened to open up the IEK! I'm glad you said the numbers. I wish they'd confirm. And I conclude, Mr President, with something last week. Look, let's agree on what distractions we're talking about. As you said, there are the good distractions from school in order to fill gaps. There are, however, secondments to other bodies. These are a time-consuming problem. Is that what you're going to put in dialogue? In order to come to the dialogue, it means, firstly, that you will accept some good things that have been done, secondly, that we will not have a dialogue and you will be legislating from the back door and you will be bringing GNIs and that we will agree on an agenda that is currently not there. There's only one general card. Anyway, I'm closing up with the distractions. The secondments, Minister, were then. First, in 2010 four thousand seven hundred teachers were returned to classes from various bodies, from General Archives of the State, from libraries, from universities, from metropolitan communities, from general bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u148	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u149	Immediately, Mr President. What I want to tell you about what you said you did thirty-seven, is that you yourself may have done thirty-seven to bodies. I'm not talking about MPs and parties. But your predecessors had made another three thousand nine hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u151	Hey, how many? So let's look at the evidence. That doesn't make any sense. It makes sense to reach agreement so that policies can be found. This is our spirit, but unfortunately I am afraid, Minister, that in this way, by legislating on the one hand and calling on unrealistic dialogue on the other, we cannot go away from education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u152	Mrs. Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, only anger can cause the fact that, in your question, you leave the government - and I quote - for extreme right-wing populism, for ideoleptic policies, with the culmination of its likeness to a free, bloody Soviet-type regime. Who makes populism, I wonder. It may be a reminder, but it does not give rise to any surprise, because it is fully in line with the 'coffee movements', in which during the previous parliamentary term you, the usual mediators and, unfortunately, our fellow academics, who have used and used the universities in which they teach themselves, who have persecuted their colleagues as slumbers, corrupted and scientifically inadequate, who have permeated and spread the ministry as a perpetuator of education, of minor effort, as slavery, as counter-reformists, as "ballets" of education, as slains of catastrophes and ideologically obsessive, peripheral types. You know what? The essence of the dialogue is not only the content, but also the terms and rules of the dialogue. But let's go to that. 23% of VAT on private education was abolished, except I did not hear any of you defending the public school. The signal of your times of governance was the merging and closing of school units, it was the unfair and gambled system of the Bank of Topics, which sent schoolchildren to the hug of misconduct and fortunately was abolished. You swore the sword of excellence, when for your day two and a half thousand organic and technical training posts were abolished, to throw them north into private education and the teachers in the availability waste basket. They returned to their ranks at the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL. Is excellence also the availability of the three hundred managers of the universities, who left the universities without care, without cleanliness and without administrative support, after leaving them without reserves because of the infamous PSI, for which you are so pleased? The aim of the government is not to abolish experimental, but precisely the opposite. It is the diffusion throughout the territory of innovative methods and pilot programs, so that it can take place now, not the school of excellent, but excellent school for all. In the so-called excellence, which presents students to the man-made suffering of an examination-centered system and makes teachers hostage - we are not against evaluations, but we are against evaluations that act as means of supervision, punishment and pretext of dismissal - the false excellence, which converts managers into programme managers and bambooes of their employees, we oppose the democratic uplift of all the roles of the school unit through hereditary administrations from the clubs. The democratic school is against which it ceases to function as a mechanism for the reproduction of social classes. As far as the party is concerned, when was the institutionalised four-year term of training directors respected? As far as I remember, when the government changed, the new government immediately ceased the headmasters. The latest choices of training directors were made in the summer of 2010, with a five-year term which expired on 31 August 2015. Only the current government has extended their term of office to the choice of young people. Let us now refer to the universities. It is not democracy, ladies and gentlemen, the enemy of education. Democracy - according to the Europe you call for inconsistently - is the heart and oxygen of education and the Diamantopoulou - Arvanitopoulos law will be recorded in history as the sad photocopy of private universities across the Atlantic, which have trampled a long European tradition and launched a quasi-federal, authoritarian and anti-democratic model of administration of universities, in the interpretation of the reactions then of the university community. Yeah, you're right. He was voted in favour of the House by a overwhelming majority, but was condemned by almost all of the community. You know, diligence is a work of university teachers and not of the state, of the old-fashioned state and new-fashioned crusaders of the market. I would like to ask how much democratic it is that the chambers, the most multi-faceted and democratic decision-making bodies are cut down dramatically. I would also like to ask how democratic it is to transfer responsibility from the departments to the few blocks, i.e. to indirect representation procedures. How democratic is it to limit the representation of departments in the Senate? How democratic is the total ban on the participation of administrative and student staff in elections and in collective bodies? How democratic, finally, is the election of LPI members by a appointed small team of selectors who do not meet publicly? Look, there was a lack of dignity and there is. It is a solution, however, with more openness, more openness and public consultation procedures in the elections, not to mention the participation of universities from abroad both in the evaluations of the departments, as well as in the election and development of colleagues who sometimes devoured Greek colleagues, dealing with them in a spirit of colonial-controllers and creating relations of patronage. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is not a Europe. This can only be taken as a symptom of Psorocostantin archivism. What else did the foundation councils do in this two-year period, apart from looking for safe spaces to meet, after they stay in history as the only institution that operated outside the university community? They were quietly prospered on the glorious path of excellence, without electricity, heating, staff and writings - according to Mrs Diamantopoulou's proverb - after they have not made any speeches, therefore, on the economic collapse of education in recent years and have exhausted all their rigour among students and managers, the availability of which they saw as a splendid field for the modernisation of universities and contractors. In fact, the EMCDDA Foundation Council had strongly supported the reference of the then Rector, Theodosi Pelgini, to a Disciplinary Board by the then Minister of Education because of his attitude to the administrative strike. They did something else, though, the councils. They were pre-selecting candidates for pre-selection with unique criteria of social considerations, excluding, not administratively inadequate and inexperienced, but politically dangerous. On January 15, 2014, the unique nomination of the professor of Philosophy was rejected to fill the position of the Quaestor of the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Athens. This rejection can only be compared with intervention by government commissioners at universities on a dictatorship. The questions, in fact, were not based on candidates' academic and administrative qualifications, but on whether they were willing to call the police in the case of student mobilisations and on their every confession of faith in the Diamantopoulou - Arvanitopoulos Act. The rabies attacking eternal students from what is dictated? From your strong support to a university of law and order? What is the cost of eternal students? Zero! You have chosen to delete them at a time when the work of young people is a one-way and 30% of the country's population lives on the poverty line. Ladies and gentlemen, a university operating as a hybrid of authoritarian education in law and class and private business, a university which organises concerts and demonizes, devours, almost hates its students, a university that sends teachers to court, is a contradiction on the terms. Universities teachers acting as prosecutor do not deserve their name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u154	Mrs. Vaki, time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u155	Wait a minute, please. The feudal age has passed unreturned. The long tradition of the European enlightenment you call on, but you are probably ignored, is driven by the vision of public, open, participatory, democratic university, inclusive. A university based on confidence in those who work and know how to take care of their homes. A university which does not punish, avenge, but forms, critically thinking citizens and heals the right reason and critical reflection. The university is also a mirror, but also a nursery of a fair and democratic society. The university is the only institution that will mark social change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Fortsakis has the floor. I can't help but notice that teachers are taking professors to the Step. Let me see who'll be the first to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u157	How much time do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u158	You've got six minutes, Mr. Fortsakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. There's been a lot of noise. I will try to avoid the wooden language and say a few thoughts that I consider to be essential. Along with criticism, I will try to make some constructive suggestions, because I think that graying is no use here that we have arrived. But you will allow me to begin with two conclusions. The first point is that our education in general, unfortunately, Minister, has collapsed. Of course, this has not happened in the space that SYRIZA and ANELs are running, it is a situation that goes back to earlier times. The bad news is, it's made a lot worse in the past few months. What's the status? First of all, we should go to primary and secondary education that is much more interested in university at the moment, because we are here a number of university teachers and we are focusing on issues that I fear are completely indifferent to public opinion. Our schools are in a dramatic situation, because children are receiving an extremely limited education. They have become addicted to memorizing and working, based on a single book. We have schools, which are completely lacking in administrative infrastructure, of the slightest administrative infrastructure. We have schools which are completely deprived of any academic infrastructure. Therefore, we have schools which cannot inherently play the role they have to play. I note that the average schooling in our schools, in school units, does not exceed three hundred, while the average of the next Member State in Europe, France, is nine hundred and we reach two and a half thousand in Portugal, a state that has our size. This is a dramatic situation. If you look at the hours at which our children are currently working, it is really the situation for both children and families. What kind of school is it that lasts the children four hours, from 08.00 to 12 noon, and it kicks them out in the middle of the day? And yet this situation is the situation in a very large number of schools. High school doesn't have to comment on it. High school doesn't exist. High school has been abolished in favour of delinquency. Whatever child you ask will tell you that he is never involved in the high school courses, he only deals with what he learns in misery, so that he can succeed in an exterior competition that will put him in higher education, after he has previously "insected" him and has literally burned his brain. This situation is a situation which is, of course, the result of many years. It didn't happen on SYRIZA - ANEL. However, I fear that what is happening since January has not helped improve this situation. One would expect immediate measures to be taken which can contain and improve this situation. This, Minister, we are still waiting to see. The situation in the universities is also very bad. To tell the truth, our universities don't work. And don't tell me that I belong to those who want to deceive the public university, because if I earned public universities, I'd just pay myself off. Because I have devoted my life to the public university, and that is what I have given all the ability and all the strength that I may have. But our university has collapsed. It has become a center of lectures where the professor enters a room, does some lessons to a audience that is constantly alternating, so there is no stability. There are no organised exercises, no monitoring, and there is no meaning of the year. Here, too, is the memorisation, with the only teaching book that he shares, there are no libraries and there is no contact with today's university awareness of Europe and the world. This is a sad situation, where, unfortunately, in recent years, there has also been a wave of great violence that is shaking university life together. Of course, he has no reason to get the police involved in universities. However, when there are groups in universities that with exceptional violence and the use of illegality paralyse the lives of universities, we must find a way out of this situation. And, unfortunately, a portion of university has also been involved in this, which is an important part. When at the University of Athens dropped the system that allows electronic communication, computers, etc. And paralyzed the hospitals, I don't think that's all from the students. I think we should look better to see who was behind this situation. When we talk about impurity at the university and about failure to clean up, we should think that some were emptied of garbage cans and bleeded out the university and its corridors. Who were they? Do we know them? Do you know them? Because I have an idea in particular, and I think I know who they are. Unfortunately, they were also supported by political forces. And they've relied on the idea that we'd gain politically. But, of course, there were no such gains, nor will they be. I have listened very carefully to the Minister talking about dialogue. Minister, we in the dialogue are coming and in this dialogue we will be as productive as we can. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, I must tell you that it is extremely worrying that from January to today, when we are starting to discuss - and I do not mean you personally, but the government - you have taken at least fifty measures, which we have recorded in detail and which in fact constitute a legislature in a very large number of points that we are supposed to be discussing today. This method in which we are trying with legislative acts, with amendments to unrelated bills, with unilateral actions and with the absence of consultation to regulate a number of vital issues in education and then to say 'we will have a dialogue', create a reflection. I really hope that this dialogue will be opened in all respects, as the chairman of the Committee on Morphic Affairs has promised. We would, in other words, have a dialogue which, without prerequisites, will be a dialogue from zero to zero. Speaking earlier on about the vacancies in the schools, I think you said about your intention to recruit. We do not know whether or not we should be recruiting education right now. What I see is that there is a controversy between the problems that we are developing. Lacks in schools are not the result of a lack of a sufficient number of teachers, but of a lack of organisation. Because we in Greece have the highest proportion of teachers compared with students. So our problem isn't there. We should take more teachers if we can pay them, but at the moment we have such a big problem, it would be better to channel the money we have into more productive functions, especially to reconstruct the whole school map, with the creation of a single type of school unit from kindergarten to high school III, to do a school of production, staff and teaching, according to the French model, but also of administration, which we do not have and try to create an infrastructure that - as I have said before - we are deprived of. This could also be combined with the Public Investment Programme where we could imagine funding, for example, a thousand new major units gradually over a twenty-year depth, which would enable us to carry out this project, which responds to what prevails in all the major foreign countries. I heard you talked about 2.8% of GDP. Unfortunately, this is too low, it should be much higher. And I heard you say, of course, that in a situation of economic hardship, and that 2.8% will be difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Fortsakis, there's also the painting of time across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u161	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. So, in my opinion, Mr Minister, we should make a different choice. To increase this percentage immediately, as far as we can gradually, with a view to reaching 5% and reducing other costs. There are costs which at the moment are expenditures which reach 4 billion and 5 billion a year due to corruption, due to maladministration, the irrational allocation of expenditure. That's what we need to look at, and not cut out of education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u162	Let's get the time together, Mr. Fortsaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u163	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think, Minister, that it would be a profit for everyone that you criticised and said that there are no more 255 majorities. I hope you will take action and bring forward proposals with which you will achieve such a majority. You bring logical proposals and we are here to support them. But do not continue on the path of unilateralness and on the road of 'decide and order'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u164	In vain Mr Fortsaki's attempt, if any, is in vain. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u165	I don't think I'm gonna need Mr. Fortsaki's ten minutes. Mr. Philly, you're a liar. Big liar. And you do not react, as you have not reacted, when Mr Lovers told you a liar, as the Bureau did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u166	What are you doing now? Is this a call to the Bureau now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u167	As I told you, you're a liar. Because the sensitive Bureau and the sensitive ministers of SYRIZA - ANEL, if you were told 'false' by a member of the Golden Dawn, would have said to be deleted from the Minutes. He told you "fake"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u168	I said it, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u169	You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u170	I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u171	You didn't even say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u172	You have a problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u173	You have a problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u174	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u175	Cole! You've been 20 minutes, Mr. Friend...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u176	Here's the Step of the House. You know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u177	I know, Mr. President. Your colleague, Mr. Philis, former journalist took twenty minutes to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u178	You're at the Step of the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u179	Will you let me talk? Cole! Twenty minutes have taken you, Mr. Friend, to say that PASOK's questions, Democratic Compact as they say now, do national damage and say the collapse of education. Yes, they badly talk about the collapse of education, because you said there is no collapse in education. I agree! There is no collapse in education. There is the collapse in general of the state. The whole state has collapsed, not just education. I would remind you of your past, Mr Phile, the antimonetary, as a journalist, and I ask you what has changed. Has the country built since January 2015? Did he make with the memorandum, the agreement that Mr Fortsakis also voted on, which looks at his phone - you did not vote on, Mr Fortsakis? Did you vote - in August 2015? What's changed? Is anything changed? And I say how things change. You said they turned themselves into talking about pasonics and you said well. Your turn-up, SYRIZA's asshole, how should it be said? You said that they were mutated by social democrats, who were on the way to PASOK and socialism, to memorialists and people of the system. How have you been mutated? From the left of progress, have you become a movement of the memorial and recession? Because it's a recession. You talk - and you have the nerve to speak! - linking education and production. What connection to production? Greece has less than 1.3 growth rates throughout Europe, only Greece. For your sake, Mr. Friend of the Left and the Progress. I shall submit this document in the Minutes so that other Members can see it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You ended up at the end of your speech saying that education had collapsed in general, while you said that education did not collapse, after you said that the educational potential was collapsed. That's exactly what you said. After the educational potential has collapsed - we know Greek well - it means that education has collapsed, that is, education has collapsed. You confessed yourself. "Education, every good country, everything the good bears", said the philosopher Socrates, that is, with a return to the new Greek "education, education, just like a fertile land, brings all the good things". And we know how much our people suffer from lack of education. It is the current state of education that has a share of responsibility - because most of the responsibility bears the constitutional responsibility, as you say, a democratic arc - for the country's downrightness and, in particular, the lack of education. What to learn from the PASOK action? Because the PASOK, in order to make its opposition today, brought the matter. He's got it badly. Critton speaks to him slowly, gentlemen of PASOK. What did you do about education? In your time education collapsed. What should I first remember? The removal of the flag? Remember the abolition of the apron, where our schools were turned into pasareles? The aprons were the best because they were assimilated to poor and rich. All children wore a uniform suit. That's what you had allergy in the uniform. What should I first remember? The incomplete adequacy of teachers and your own days? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will take ten minutes, Mr President, as Mr Fortsakis has said. You said there was a lack of professors and you said with one accent and that you hired ten thousand - how many - more - and that the problem was solved. Is that the problem of education? Is it just a lack of teachers? I will tell you that it is also a lack of education adequacy for proper education. How many children have not heard from their teachers' lips in their question "do not ask me, you will do so in the school". Do we want this education? Also, it is the left propaganda which is the result of education from 1974 until today. Education is bleached by the worst Marxist propaganda that continues unacceptably, propaganda, both in New Democracy and in PASOK. On your own government, gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are patriots right, came out of Mrs. Reposi's book and had the ultimate coverage of Mrs. Giannakou - Koutsikou. On your own days, all the ethnicly-ethnic teachers have acted. How are you going to make education? With Mr. Liaco? Have you read what the Constitution says? The Constitution says in Article 16 that education is a basic task of the state and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks, the development of national and religious consciousness and their modulation to free and responsible citizens. You make robots, you make children who have no hope, no future, who live twelve years of slavery, because slavery is school. They're right about children opposing school, this school you've made, right and left. We're against this school. This school we want to change and we want to make schools all standards, what you do not want and not just schools, but society to make it a model. You are proving today - and I shall end, Mr President - our ideological position that the right and the right are exactly the same, the two sides of this coin. The left policy of recent months strongly demonstrates the absolute recognition of the Memorandum of Right and Left Policy. Nobody forgets and none of the people who see us in August 2015 will forget. On August 14, 2015, you right-wing and you left-wing voted the same memorandum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. You're hypocrites in this Chamber. Does the Prime Minister of the Left send his children to private schools? So much have you surrounded with your love and care the education and education of the Greek people? Mr. Tsipras sends his children to private schools. Learn it. He's not the only one. And Mr. Samaras was sending his child to a private school.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u180	All eleven minutes are over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u182	You'll thank me when you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u183	You know his kid copied both father and uncle fired the teacher. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Last sentence, Mr. President. I say that we on the Golden Dawn are fighting for national education and we believe that the obligation of the state alone, of a nation state, is the education of the new Greeks. That is why we are striving, for the organization of youth, for a national of higher education. So, national, substantial, because, as Winston Churchill said, this Nobelian Prime Minister of Great Britain: "The mind of a smart man is like a gun." No one's getting it from a prosecutor and saying that we're talking about guns and putting it in a case-file. So Churchill said: "It is a good weapon, but it is useless without ammunition, that is, knowledge and education." The Greek people are a smart people. Don't underestimate him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. I'll do my best to be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u186	Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u187	If I don't make it, I'll ask for half the tolerance from the previous ones. I move, ladies and gentlemen, quickly - quickly this infamous 'we have received chaos' of the Minister, the theory of the burnt land. It's getting very boring, you know, repeating after every change of government over at least forty years. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Before going through the contents of the PASOK question, I will be standing on what was heard by this step by the PASOK representative. They say "Policy outside school and education". In his own way the representative of the Golden Dawn strengthened it a moment ago, when he spoke of the Marxism that has allegedly flooded education. Rather, they have not taken over the books from which the children of the Greek people are taught. This voice that is heard here about politics outside schools is the very voice of the dominant ideology, which considers itself the only privilege of being in schools, because politics is within schools. Schools are not neutral. It does not allow anyone to question it, much more in the space that she itself considers it its exclusive privilege, since it is reproduced there in many ways and through knowledge many times. Ladies and gentlemen, the very content of the PASOK question to the government under the barbaric title 'Full education', and the debate that preceded me, I think, confirm and reveal the common strategy of these parties that make a disagreement on individual issues. They may have some variations. There is a strategic conclusion, in our opinion, which has been formally reflected - and that cannot be called into question - from your vote last August in the third memorandum and in which, for the first time, you have set specific guidelines for education and not just some cuts in expenditure. I would remind you of some, for example the control of how the so-called 'new school' of Diamantopoulou is implemented, which brings with it the categorisation of schools, mergers, the further disconnection of the teacher's degree from the profession, the reactionary evaluation. The continued application of the Arvanitopoulos law on high school by extension, generalization of apprenticeships and the direct involvement of enterprises in the structures and programmes of vocational education or in the context of higher education, further modernisation of them according to the best practices of the European Union and the utilization of the OECD's proposals, i.e., in a mere Greek way, their more intimate attachment to the current needs of enterprises, and why not, slowly, the introduction of a tuition fee into undergraduate. In order to avoid forgetting, of course, the state's attitude to public education that continues with the 2016 budget with ridiculous arguments, the style of 'differentiation of spending on education', as if these were ever enough or the increase in the proportion of school teachers reaching thirty sections. You voted together last August and these are the basis of your education policy for both. After all we say, what's left in PASOK to show he's opposition? But to choose, as he does and has done this evening, secondary issues to raise his opposition curly by on the one hand pressing for the quickest implementation of these reactionary restructurings in education and, on the other hand, allowing the government to appear as progressive in both your own court of the anti-educational policy of the European Union and the OECD, on which you swear. In other words, unpopulation, not from the point of view of the people's needs in education, but from the point of view of speeding up the reactionary restructurings that will make the school more expensive for the people's family, they will generalise what we say "accurately paid immortality". After all, all laws for the education of the previous governments live and reign. And that's what he's saying. That is why in the PASOK question, there is not a single word about the ongoing underfunding of education, about the explosive problems it faces, with school committees without heat, with underheating children, with inappropriate buildings, with thousands of unsuitable kindergartens, with a special treatment that is slowing down, leaving tens of thousands of disabled children in society and thousands of undetermined educational teachers drawn to slavery throughout the country for a hunger wage. And the New Democracy here - if you like - was more honest and more cynical. "They do not need no appointments," said her representative a moment ago. The Minister, of course, says it more elegantly: 'We will make appointments, although the budgetary circumstances allow us to do so'. Ask me May to eat a clover. But what about all this PASOK? His achievements are all of the above and of course SYRIZA continues with them. You probably had another party in mind, gentlemen of PASOK, when you wrote your question today. Today's SYRIZA is no longer the SYRIZA of last January. He, like you, is struggling to strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek economy, that is to say to strengthen the profitability of business groups and through the universities. That is why it maintains your law of 2011 and does not repeal, of course, the boards of administration of universities, simply removes them a competence, the power to pre-select candidates. Besides, don't blame them. The current Undersecretary, I think, has also been nominated for this management board or one of them anyway. You wrongly blame him, too, for stopping school merging. He may have said he will rethink previous mergers, but now he is not saying that, but he is making general mergers of parts throughout the country. It swears in the OECD report, which, of course, provides for mergers and again reminds us that you have voted together. And in the public IEK, SYRIZA continues your policy and even bored it, by making even compulsory movements and secondments to them, from other schools, and by taking out a ministerial charm so as not to pay the student's practical exercises. I mean, free work. Don't happen to the big businesspeople. Not to talk about the thousands of teachers of this grade who have been on the air for years. Who does, ladies and gentlemen, a war in evaluation? SYRIZA? Because he's talking about an evaluation that isn't going to be punishable, but a reward? ‘No Yiannis i.e. Giannakis.’ The main objective of evaluation as a lever to market education for the capitalist market, which will also operate in terms of such a market, has never been questioned by SYRIZA. It is no coincidence that in the indicative agenda of the national dialogue on education, in the Committee on Education, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the President of the Commission is tabling an assessment of educational units and educational staff. And as Mr Gavroglou himself said, this is a product of PASOK and Potami agreement. I'm not sure about the New Democracy. As for the partisanization you're making so much noise, what about partying? You're in the same camp, aren't you? The needs of this system and of capital don't you both serve in education and not just? And what's more important to us? The criteria for selecting the training staff or the policy they serve? We say the second, and that's what you want to hide with the voices of communism, which has always been the favourite issue of the opposition hollow, and it suits you both. Just before I close, I would like to comment on this unexplained phrase about 'free, bleeding, Soviet-type status'. And then PASOK gentlemen seem to be kicking their clothes for the golden ones. Allith, you give them something like that and you give them back. As for dialogue, it has been heard here today that no dialogue needs, in our opinion, to provide money for education. A political decision needs another political perception. And you've long been deciding who you're going and who you're going to leave. No dialogue needs to be appointed, it is a political decision to appoint the thousands of undetermined teachers, to give money to education. Of course, let Mr. Loverdos not be sad. SYRIZA spokesman in the Committee on Educational Affairs stated that the findings of the previous dialogues would also be used. Alas, we won't throw them away. In conclusion, we want to say that the education that the people need is not only about the material terms on which it works, but also about the content, because at some point the Greek people must stop accepting their children from learning prosperous through the cooking recipes, as they are now doing, to stop accepting that there is no reference to EPA, for the biggest youth movement that this place has ever known. There's no one in school books, and then we're talking about the Marxist ideology that dominates, he says. So this education that people need is not going to come from any government that manages this rotten system of capitalist barbarism. It will be the product of hard class struggles for education and society as a whole aimed at real social change, which is, of course, changing the order of power and not simply changing some parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u188	Thank you. Mr Mavrotas, Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about the collapse of education. It is a feeling that exists more generally in society and there have been various things that have been heard here over the previous speakers about the gaps in general and special education, about the degradation of high school, about the situation of universities and so on. But don't be foolish. It is not just the current government's fault for all the evils of education. But it's because of their worsening. We've seen such samples in the last ten months. At six minutes of my time I will not go into detail on issues such as, for example, the OECD report, the best practices in the European Union, with which we need to collide, participation in the European area of higher education, the importance of vocational training and education, and a number of other things that we have not spoken about. I shall therefore be dealing with the most important, in my opinion, of the nature of our educational policy, which is nothing but a client state and a party in education. The administration of education is a hierarchy. Its main concern is the formulation, implementation and follow-up of educational practices. For this serious work, there must be knowledge and experience, i.e. there must be dignity with "alpha" capital, from the top down to the bottom, from the top to the bottom. This, of course, is generally the case for public administration, but especially in the very sensitive area of education, it is a key issue. So we do not need to put our own people at every level of the hierarchy, as SYRIZA unequivocally claims, in order to implement his policies. We need to draw the line where political positions stop and where administrative positions begin. At the level of the State Secretary, at the level of the Secretary-General? The higher the hierarchy, however, the more efficient the administration becomes. So let's go to the recent past. As known in spring, the government appointed the thirteen regional training directors with the well-known system of 11-2 and international careers, as it was even discussed in the European Parliament. A week ago in the past year's pasture bill, the Minister brings a sudden and late amendment to the selection of training directors. This amendment restores the institution of the interview, with decisive molecules - fifteen units - and with three of the five members of the committee appointed by the government. "But the interview without transparency, with nothing, without any control simply and clearly was an instrument of the state to choose those he wants without giving account to anyone." That's not my word. Prime Minister Tsipras said so here in this Chamber in response to a timely question about Stavros Theodorakis education, on May 8, 2015. He also concluded: "This is why the interview will be abolished." Another commitment that melted into the furnace of reality. Also, your rapporteur at the Balta bill - I think it was Mr Baxvanakis - at that time, in May 2015, he said: "We all know well how this interview was used by previous governments for selecting the dates of the power in question." And he continued: "Does one disagree with the role played by the selection councils with the famous interview that defined the directors of each party's chosen leaders and cultivated customer relations?" That's what SYRIZA's rapporteur said. Indeed, we do not disagree. But it seems that he disagrees with the Ministry. So the sinful and infamous interview of May is suddenly sanctified today. Why? But it's simple. Because you saw that with the election of the school directors, your voters didn't choose your own, and you said to go back to the old, tested tricks. Let's go to the universities. I will contrast the reversal of the reality attempted by the dear Mrs Vaki, reminiscent of the University of the 1980s. Yesterday I heard that the SYRIZA Youth Secretary informed the members of the Central Committee that Youth Syria would go to a new trade union in universities and TEIs. So SYRIZA will reconstruct his student party. At the devilish juncture it is circulating these days, these hours rather - because we have seen it on the sites now a few hours ago - a draft law on the administration of the HEIs, in which student groups will also have an important role to play. What an amazing coincidence! Well, have you not understood to SYRIZA that academic and party interests are not converging? Why do you insist on leaning on the university body with party orders, as did all the previous ones? Instead of considering how you will find money for the scholarships that have been cut from the IKY or how you will not cut university budgets, your concern is to reconstruct your party party at universities and TEI. We in Potami, because we want the good of universities more than the good of the party, have said from the first moment, and we repeat that we are not going to create a student party in the universities. Students don't need party patrons. They need better universities and diplomas with an impact. Finally, you announced the famous national dialogue on education. Dialogue on education is welcome, it is enough to be honest and include a proposal rather than a pretext. But if it is a dialogue - swamps to pass amendments and bills, which you unilaterally regard as urgent, then we will not walk together. If, for example, a bill that changes the way the HEIs are managed suddenly comes, a key theme, which is clearly one of the objects of the famous national dialogue that we have started on the basis of the agenda that the chairman of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, Mr Gavroglou, gave us yesterday, then we will have a second sample. The first was the choice of training directors, with the 'catch-up' amendment. So we will have a second sample that you are mocking us and that the famous dialogue is simply the wrapping-up of your previous decisions. In this connection: if we want dialogue, then what matters are urgent, which must be directly legislated, let us decide together in the Committee on Forums, which wants and must have a central role in this process. This will build up the trust that has so much been eaten between us. Otherwise, you will claim that everything is urgent, you will legislate and let the suckers be chosen. I'm closing up with some of Einstein's words, which said you can't solve a problem, thinking the same way he created it. So if we want to solve the problems in education, let us get away from the coups, the coalitions and the patronage that so much suffering has caused in recent years. That's where we'll be with you. But if you continue on the road that we see you have begun, namely, the ideology, arrogance and the spread of the client state, as it has been in the past, then we will be across. I was slightly frightened by the Minister's reference to 1981 and by the change of status in education. Can we wait for something like that thirty-four years later? Education is a long-term investment for each country. If you look at her as a party predator, alas, and our alas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr Konstantinos Zouraris, Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u191	My respects, Mr. President. As a matter of fact, Mrs Christophilopoulou has given me a comparison of n. 3848 with some of the Secretary of State's proposals and convinced me that for the selection of the first member and for the selection of the third and fourth members, the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 235 of the EEC Treaty should apply. 3848 appear to be able to choose more crowded people. Of course, I agree with the choice of the President and the other members with the Minister. Maybe we'll see it again. But now I have to go back to the Democratic Party, formerly PASOK, because, as - and quite rightly - the spokesman of the JRC said, there have been some outrageous exaggerations and I want to stay on just one point. There is, in your text, the term "neutral folkism" for ANELs. Let me confront this nonsense of populism, which is a global phenomenon, because the term 'laicism' is a revolutionary term, came out in the French Revolution. Unfortunately, the Anglo-Saxons took him after a few decades and dragged the Left, which is annoyed with this term. It doesn't mean anything at all, it's bad, it's unscientific. But to say, on the point that the Independent Greeks are - I forget all the time, because I was laughed at by laughter - 'the right-wing populism'. I shall have to, of course, be forgiven by the eminent and eminent colleagues - almost speaking professionally. Of course, political science, as I have been ministering for forty years, is not a science in the sense of stable, strict, serious sciences, but has education, culture and a education of vulnerability or dissatisfaction. The "neutral right", in the formulation of the political theory of modern times, has four elements and only four. Therefore, in order to characterize a party as a extreme right, it must first have the following elements: Firstly, in the founding elements there is an aggressive imprisonment of the type "we are the best in the world and we will slaughter the neighbor, because it disturbs us that he is inferior to us". It is self-evident that all the extreme right parties have worked in repentance, and it is a phenomenon after World War I. The second element, of course, is that at all times in the founding texts and in the ideology and in the wording of pragmatic and practical practice, there must be no doubt, 'arbyls', that part of the members is shaped in raids or in a paramilitary type, and that, in practice, must occur at times. In other words, the slogan, for example, that was before the House "to burn the brothel" because it is not accompanied by an accompanying act of effectiveness, is not a far right-wing element, it is a extreme right-wing lyricism, or, in any case, a nocturnality. The third element is that, in order to qualify a party's right-wing party, there must be a structural, founding anti-parliamentism, even at the level of manifestation in the theoretical texts and in practice. There was no extreme right-wing party, which did not say that 'I will abolish indirect representative democracy' of this type that we have and did not do when it came to power. Therefore, anti-parliamentarianism is certainly a permanent structural element. And the last, of course, is the element of action. In none of this, ANELs are responding. I therefore propose to my fellow Members, because it is badly termed and I will give him - so that I do not call him too - in one, say, tense sobriety because of the lack of politics, a temporary condition - until you find one - because his first element is sufficiently saturative, if you want to make fun of the ANELs, and the second is sufficiently pragmatic, he has all the information. And so, most of all, it is temporary - that ANLL suffers puffed patridolatry or puffed patriotrophes. The "right-wing" is bad and is not scientific. And if ye do not observe it, next time I will refer you to the E.7 of Thucydides, with which he characterizes this evilness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Zouraris. Before giving the floor to the next parliamentary representative, allow me a communication. The Standing Committees...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u194	No, I'm not. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u195	A personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u196	A correction to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u197	Do you realize you're interrupting? I repeat the announcement to this House: The Standing Committees on Economic Affairs and Development and Trade present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions for the implementation of the Financial and Structural Reform Agreement". What exactly do you want, Mr. Cream?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u198	One minute's reason, to make a correction to Mr. Zouraris.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u199	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u200	Because I spoke of a democratic party, and I meant the line that has come here from Eleftherios Venizelos, the phrase - perhaps better known than me, as a linguist - 'democratic party' is other than the Democratic Assent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u201	Excuse me, I didn't remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u202	Okay. PASOK came down to the elections and to the parliament as a Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR and Citizen Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u203	I'm sorry, I missed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u204	Are you done, Mr. Cream?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u205	Yeah, a correction I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u206	You're welcome. Thank you. Mr Megalomoustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u207	Good evening. When we talk about reforming education, three conditions must be in our minds, I believe: stability, dignity and credibility. Unfortunately, so far none of these things have been taken into consideration, as the subject of the current question reads: 'Action of education'. The collapse of education is not only now. I think the collapse of education is why we are in this situation today. Education is and must be viewed and treated as the firmest pillar in our society. A well-structured educational system can turn citizens into active and responsible, have cultural, political, economic, environmental education. If, for example, the Greeks so far had economic education, we would not have taken these holidays on the phone. So the collapse of education is not only now. Unfortunately, some policies can see that they are going on. Let us deal with this a little more seriously. Today education suffers from arrhythmia, as it has suffered in previous years, I do not only blame this government. Soon we'll be looking to find a pulse and there won't be any. Society returns to self-teaching, improvisation and eventually leaving brains abroad. It is a problem that we all know of course. The area of education has been filled with native persecutors. And what's the simple solution? Stability. The Centro Association is now proposing a cross-party committee for the years in which there will be improvements to the education programme. There can be no constant change, and every time the government changes the whole programme on education. What we have to do is improve. Education, as I have said before, is a pillar for our society and its organization. This is how it should be designed, with a view to the time being. That's what we need to put right in our minds. It's not many years since I left the cobbleds. It's less than ten. Then, of course, he followed the university. I remember, however, from the early years of school, from kindergarten and primary school, an unbearable pressure, as I also made English and music and artistics at school. The point is, in the evenings I went to learn English at the school, I went to the valet, and there was musician and professor of English at the school. I also made German. It's things a kid at that age can't handle. Unfortunately, our society, with its misery and all that you know, has led us to this situation. Today this has been limited, not because our mindset has changed - I wish it had been for that! - but because they have limited Greek finances. Unfortunately, that's it. About some things in high school and high school, you know that too. The only thing that promotes the system to date - and I do not see any change that I hope there will be and wish it. - it's the parrot, not the real knowledge. It rewards the person who learns texts by word. That's why there's so much training. Teachers are trying and maybe something changes over time, but the system doesn't allow them to do much more. When grading is done with how many same words you used with the original text, then the teacher can't do much. The children must be under this unbearable pressure. On the question asked by my fellow Members, on the first and second issue of posted persons and gaps, as Mr Fortsakis said, in the proportion of the population to be educated, we are in the highest position in Europe. So there's a lack of organization. What did we say and blame when we voted 'at present' on the recruitment of alternates? We said that all the seconded teachers should return to their posts and then these gaps should be covered by alternates only for the first year and that there should be an AEP competition in order to have permanent teachers. There is stability - what we said before - with merit always. We can't wait every year at the end and be the surrogates in the stress about where they're going and what they're going to do. Besides, most substitutes, which are my age, have no profit. They're only doing it for the service. Many times their families help them, because when someone goes to a remote place, in a border area, he cannot even respond to his expenses. So that is what we are asking: First, that the secondment should be made and then that the posts should be filled, if any, by permanent staff. Then it's the party check that was put on the table. When you bring us an amendment to the directors of education, you do what the previous ones have done. Unfortunately you do, you appoint your own children. That's not the news people ask for. The interview might well be on the intake. Because the one he's teaching in a room, we need to control him. He may have excellent knowledge, but he may have other topics. This has to be checked and an interview can be ensured. You just have to make sure that's what's going to happen. I would also like to say that the IEKs opened on 25 November. The fact that we had elections does not mean that education stops. That is why we say that there should be a intergroup committee. This committee would run all the issues. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because I want to be consistent in my time, I will say very quickly for the evaluation of universities that university evaluation should be carried out. We just need to provide the universities with the appropriate supplies, whether they be financially either in the infrastructure or in staff, so that they can stand on equal terms to private and foreign universities. There's an evaluation. It's not a bad assessment. But it must be done in a proper way. Finally, I would like to say about the immunity, the phenomena of violence, which may occur. I wish they wouldn't show up. When I was in college, the universities were on fire. The situation described by my colleagues existed. I hope that you will ensure that, that we do not return to this era. You know that, too, you have been observers of this situation. I've lived through it, the universities are closed, because a group of people wanted to get through theirs, without substance. I hope that this partition that characterizes some amendments, this authoritarianism and the clandestineness will not continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. And now we are going through the course of the speeches of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u209	Mr. President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u210	Madam Minister, the turn is this: since the parliamentary representatives are closed, we are entering the second phase of the honourable Member's term of office, and then you have a second term as a ministry and a trilogy. It is the choice of the political leadership if you are going to be seconded by the Minister or the Deputy and if necessary by the Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u211	Minister, despite the fact that the extracts are not offered for any opposition, you have just tried to expose the former Minister, Mr Loverdos, and to gain the impression that he has done two and a half thousand secondments to institutions and decentralised agencies, while you are not going to get over the eighty-seven, as you have said. Where are you headed? You don't know? You measured and summed up wrong. So, in order to restore the truth, I will tell you, Minister and colleagues, the secondments made by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government throughout the year 2015. You did two and a half thousand distractions to institutions of the Ministry of Education, four hundred fifty in institutions outside the Ministry of Education, a hundred and eighty-nine in institutions of the Ministry of Education in second phase, three hundred and ninety distractions in decentralized services of the Ministry of Education, regional directorates, training addresses, which exceeds three thousand four hundred. There is no connection, therefore, with the eighty-seven distractions that you have just mentioned and which are available for the last two months to other bodies. I would ask, however, for the truth to be restored, I would like here to ask that all the details of all the extracts be submitted to the House. That's the reality, and that's the truth. No one can question it unless your advisers, Minister, have given you the wrong evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u212	Yes, he's here. Don't worry at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u213	Besides, as the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, said, the house of the hanged man never speaks of rope. Because the caravan may move forward, dogs bark, but children stay back, as the wise people say. And no plan for school, for the university, you haven't testified to this day. You are talking about dialogue and participation, you who, until yesterday, went to the dialogue committees, complained and left. So you continue the unadulterated promises. Return to cover the inability to manage the present and plan the future. Minister, you say that you support the special treatment, but you only covered 30% of the authorisations for parallel support. Is that the support? Let me remind you that until last year, their cover was over 70% of approvals. I don't know what you're talking about. We are on December and we have just begun the process of transfers. You still haven't signed the Organic Positions. There are a lot of those who today, on your own responsibility, live in a working middle age. You only support words, Minister, the full day's school, innovation, permanent appointments, cleaners' payments, and aiding teaching. For the budget, Minister, which was tabled a few days ago, is reduced by EUR 65 million, particularly for primary education. So how will schools work next year? With volunteers, as the previous Minister said? It's to ask. Minister, in the context of political unworthy religion, with a resalt on the parliamentary events, you tabled an amendment on the choices of officials, after you have given the services councils a solemn account. You have damaged the credibility and objectivity of n. 3848/2010.This law selected school directors in 2011 through objective and measurable criteria. Minister, lie. You told us that we, basically the previous government, the PASOK mobilized the interview with twenty molecules. Fifteen molecules, you said twenty. In fact, you mentioned twenty molecules for v. 3848/2010, while anticipating only fifteen molecules, with a prestigious council on proposals from the institutions, with a structured interview by a matter bank, by recording, a procedure that really has to do with merit! Today you are asking for it to be done in two days - and one wonders - and in two working days and you are planning the unknown and the elections and the interview. Even today, I ask you to give a ten-day extension for training managers to submit their documentation. What's your hurry? Minister, training officials are chosen. In the same way, I would remind you here, you have set up the KYPSPE, and today we find that his Vice-President is Deputy Director of Education, and indeed is outside the table. The decisions of the Council shall therefore be in doubt. Give it an extension, then. You invite them to an interview with councils that you have appointed, with regional directors that you have placed. So basically with purely party criteria. So I wonder why you don't choose them directly. Today we have also seen the payroll arrangements. Once again, the allowance to the heads of offices, which have already been abolished, has been reinstated, and you do nothing to mention the benefits of school advisors, which are essentially human beings in action! Minister, we are here to make a genuine contribution to a fruitful and constructive dialogue, because we are talking about this dialogue for the recognition of teachers, in order to highlight the major problems of education, in order to find the solutions that require consensus and consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. As far as I know, Mrs. Kefalidou follows, so she can get a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u216	Do you want the floor, Mr. Kremastine? To come to an understanding...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u217	We had made a deal with Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u218	There's no question. It is just to be clear to you as the Bureau. Mr. Konstantopoulos and Mrs. Kefalidou have been declared to be seconded. For the rest of the questions, no request had been made, so to speak. Mrs. Kefalidou, would you like us to give you the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u219	Let Mr. Cremastino take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u220	Can you give me your turn? Okay. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u221	We had done with Mr Bored with an agreement, a few of the rapporteurs speaking and a different allocation of time. And I said to speak in general terms in protology and dentistry. I mean, I've said it from the outset, not to you, but to Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Kremastein, I'm really sorry to interrupt you. You mean you didn't first?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u223	No, I first wrote and said I'd get the denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u224	That you will also speak in dentistry. Well, you've got three minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Kegeroglu resigned to speak more time myself. He didn't talk at all. He's one of the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u226	He's one of the questioners. He's the sixth question. All right, with our tolerance and we'll add, if you like, and Mr. Kegeroglu's time. You have the floor, Mr. Kremastine.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u227	First of all, I wanted to say to the Minister and tell him that I asked him to comment on some things and say what he is thinking about going on with national dialogue, namely not waiting for national dialogue. And I would like them to respond to what I had touched on prototype. But what I must say - and allow me to advise - is, Minister, that we are the 'we' and the 'we' are tired of the world, and especially of education. Whether one has appointed a hundred substitutes and another has appointed a hundred twenty and questioned one’s second hundred twenty is of no concern to anyone. What's finally left is the play. If you go to a small island where I happened to be in the pre-election period, for example, in Halki, you will see that there are hundreds of people in winter. He has a school, which is both high school and high school. It has seventeen or eighteen teachers and has twenty or twenty-five students, that is, what Mr Fortsakis mentioned earlier, the good ratio. You know what they said there? They said 'we want to have equal opportunities', i.e. quality in some way. The kids, which come out of these schools, can compete with the center's children. In short, they want to have methods that give them this opportunity to have equal opportunities. They once didn't have chairs to sit down, they didn't have any schools. You now imagine for a hundred people there are seventeen, eighteen teachers and the positions of the fourteen, fifteen, sixteen. It doesn't matter. What they need is a different teaching. Can you do, for example, standard schools in each county and in each region? Can you give the Internet a model tutorial to these children of Agathonissos and the isolated areas? Do it. Can you do what England did a few years ago - and now doesn't do because of the Internet - that did special teachings, innovative and original, through the BBC for remote schools? Can these children, who can't afford care, compete with other children? These are conquests. And be a little bold when you say he did something, and this party, with the mistakes he made. This party did too much for education, perhaps most of any other party, if you put them down. The fact that there are mistakes, omissions, etc. This is expected. Whoever does, whoever performs, whoever tries will also have mistakes. He who has no mistakes is the one who doesn't attempt. And because I told you in my prototype that this is a year and in a year there is not much to be done or what has not been done for so many years, I must remind you that in the great - if you wish - the revolution in education, that of Papanoutsos, George Papandreou was a year and a half a Prime Minister. In a year and a half, all this has happened. He didn't do anything. Here, as I told you in my prototype, we have some things. One, two, three, four. Do it in higher education, and we'll applaud them. I must also say something else, because the issue of partyisation has been heard in some respects. I happened to be invited to a period of time in Lomonosov and Oxford, a new professor at the time of Brezniev, and I asked the same question to the students and the Soviet Union and Oxford. It was then the Middle East problem with Arafat, the Palestinians and so forth. So I asked them what they thought. I got the same answer and I was surprised. "These are the work of the governments. We are interested in others." When I heard this in the Soviet Union, I said 'it seems that things are not free here'. But I heard the same thing in Oxford. I asked the same question at the same time. What do I mean by that? You do not think it is too much to stink the walls of our universities with various slogans, even sexually, and if you dare see them at any university - not in Europe, not Africa, not Asia, I don't know where on the planet - you know what the consequences will be. These things must be dealt with. And I don't know any student of ours who went to these universities for postgraduate education and did what he's doing here in our universities, especially as a revolutionary. Universities are - if you like - the right "Churches" of education and education. This does not mean that students will be a zombie, they should not have opinions and so on. Of course not. But there must be the measure and there must be the framework where they are moving. I have to close by saying this: do the university mergers. Let me tell you one of PASOK's evils, if you like, to recognize it: All schools have been called 'universities'. When you go to London you will see "School of Economics" at the University of London, "School of Hygiene" at the University of London. We have a university of agriculture, a university of economics. We have another university in Piraeus - not in the city, I mean at a distance - another in Athens, another in Livadea. I think they've had universities now, in small towns, in Sparta and so on. Okay, but are these level universities? So, do these universities have a European level? If they have it, good. But when you tell me that the budget is 2.8% of GDP, how will it be? I don't underestimate anyone. It can't be done. You dare, then, and we will be positive on all these measures. We can't be negative. We're not oppositioning the opposition. I also think that this 'we' and 'you' are more generally wrong. Because it reminds me of the story - and I will end with it, Mr President - of the Lt. Daveli, who was arrested because he had killed a dozen in the robberies he had made, and went to court and asked for mercy. He said he couldn't take my head off because I killed ten. You took Daveli's head that killed a hundred. So I need you not to kill me. It's not true. These figures are not quantitative. If you do anything positive, it will be recognized. And let it not be recognized either by the House or by the parties. He'll be recognized by history. And I'll close, saying you shouldn't be depressed, as Minister or Mr. Friend, because you're listening to all this. Because alas, Helen Vlacho said, if you go to the House and hear the opposition applauding the government and saying "What a nice thing the government is doing!" Vlacho said: "Alas in the country that will have such a parliament!". So you see the comments in good faith and go ahead and we will applaud you if you proceed correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u228	Thank you. Mrs Kefalidou has the floor for her dentistry. Mrs Kefalidou, I would ask you to confine yourself within the three-minute framework that you are entitled to, although you would not, because your prototype was seven minutes and sixteen seconds. I mean, we should give you forty-four seconds. So we give you three minutes, in the belief that you will faithfully observe the three-minute period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be in time. In your speech, Minister, you confirmed what we suspected, that you are unable to withstand criticism, because until now you have had the privilege of exercising it only you. You spoke of a majority of two hundred and fifty-five Members. You're right. These majorities are not achieved unless there is a hard effort, credibility and a spirit of consensus and consensus. You move with ideology, handshakes and amateurisms. The pattern is now inspiring. For words, overthrows of overthrows, conflicts for conflicts. Neither a sign of a positive contribution nor even a suspicion of a methodical job nor a step forward. What you have done, that is, everywhere, in the economy, in foreign policy, in migration, in culture, in social policy, in health, and in education. Only gaffes in education, you know, cost a lot more than any cuts and any additional taxes. Because they poison every attempt to reschedule the country and undermine all hope for the future. We will be present, Minister, in the dialogue you are starting, and we hope that you will respond. But dialogue must not become a travesty. It takes a timeline, reliable interlocutors, words with sincere principles and values, targeting and, ultimately, a consensus. The responsibility for all this, Minister, is for you. You who are causing this dialogue. The government must stop legislating night and night and thus drugize any attempt and then invites us to national dialogue. So not in the tactical 'first hits and then a couple'. And allow me, political consensus is not an instant achievement, it is not a switch that you turn it. It takes time, it takes preparation, one to understand each other, each one to propose, compose, accept. You show that you just want to earn time, time to direct another collision, one more mess. And all this, of course, not for knowledge, but for knowledge power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. Now the political leadership has the right. Will the Minister answer or will Mrs. Anagnostopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u231	I want to say two words about issues that have arisen. Ms. Anagnostopoulou will do her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u232	Look, you had a 20-minute first intervention. Ten minutes you are entitled to a dentistry and five minutes of tritology, with the interim intervention of the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Incorporation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u233	Five minutes, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u234	Good. The Minister needs five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u235	First of all, I should like to respond to Mr. Loverd's voices with evidence. Please submit and register second-level second-level extracts by entity 2014-2015 in the minutes. With the signature of Mr. Loverdus, there were a thousand four hundred ninety, with my signature thirty-eight. It's all, the complete, directory of a body to an institution. I'm not going to respond to the judiciary material together. That's another story. I respond to what Mr Loverdus said, which also has a personal, I imagine, sensitivity to this issue. Please enter the list in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned list, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, I accept that we all have to try to avoid us and you, as Mr Cremastino rightly said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u236	Minister, you signed thirty-seven, not...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u237	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u238	I'm talking about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u239	Wrong impressions are being created here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Constantopoulos, don't interrupt. Please let the Minister sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u241	The list...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u242	Mercy! All lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u243	Now, excuse me, is this a behavior? Let the Minister say what he wants. Your parliamentary representative will then intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u244	I've signed thirty-seven distractions against a thousand five hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u245	Minister, just a minute, let's explain. Let the Minister sit down. Then, as I said, Mrs Christophilopoulou, who has the right to intervene as a parliamentary representative and to close with the Ministry again, with the political leadership, whether Mrs Anagnostopoulos or the Minister. Come on, Mr. Philie, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u246	So I said that 'we' and 'we' should not get into our discussion on the subject of education. At least he shouldn't enter as sovereign. He's right about that, Mr. Kremastino. Of course, we were provoked by the question of all the Members, together with the Group of the Democratic Alliance, who, entitled 'Flustering Education', brought us the images of a cheap opposition. You and me. That's the reality. Can we get through this? Let's get over it. Search for common places and the possibility of consensus? No objection, that is what we want in the dialogue process. This does not prejudice the government's responsibility to govern, that is to say to education and the state machine. So, what do you want? Shouldn't we get teachers and teachers at the IKUs? Shouldn't we hire substitutes? Do not set up the state machine so that the educational system can function efficiently? We did the self-evident thing. The five-year term of training directors came to light in August. We did not abolish it when we went up, as was the case with all previous governments. The Government of New Democracy, as you know - and there is a complaint at the time of the PASOK MPs - abolished the designated training addresses in two years. He abolished them. You did the same after, when Mrs Diamantopoulou went up. We don't follow that little pussy that we're removing. The term of office has expired and we are moving forward in selecting new executives. Are we going to leave the address headlines?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u247	No one accused you of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u248	That's what matters. We didn't interrupt the term. The term of office has expired, and then we shall proceed in the way we have mentioned in the selection of directors. Second theme: School advisors. Their term of office expires on 31-12 and we do not rush into new positions. We extend until 31-8 the selection of school advisors. In other words, we have given examples of respect for dignity and democratic procedures for the functioning of education. Thirdly, look, on the subject of the CYPRU, I have just heard that there is a plea of legality. Don't say these things, because it's not serious! It's all legal, it's made up of members who have the legal status of primary school director, as you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u249	He's not a training director. He performs duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u250	If you are talking about the Fhotida prefecture, after the retirement in 2014 of the primary school director, he has been responsible since 2014 for all the rights and obligations of their legal exercise. I repeat, to be clear. If you have problems with legal texture, there are the courts. No objections! But it is cheap - I repeat - this debate is cheap opposition!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u251	Cheap opposition?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u252	Next issue is the issue of appointments. Mr Fortsakis said that we do not need appointments, we need redistribution of staff. Look, Greece is not France, which means that there is a geographical relief that forces, for example, Halki, that Mr. Kremastino said earlier, with fifty students having twenty teachers. That's the reality. On this small island there are the same problems: Five children want their teacher. I mean, we need to get the ratios out separately. It is also the geographical relief of the island and of the difficult mountain areas and of the cities. But there is one point that I recognise. There is abuse in the formation of a few parts. That's what happened to a class of high school. We'll deal with it. Because the law speaks of twelve students per department. As far as it is concerned - and we have sections with both two and three, and with a student in the PESALs - it is an abuse that will be dealt with by programming and reorganisation and not by removing the right of children to be able to train them. And such changes will take place because there is no meaning of a section with one, two and three students. Educationally speaking now, it is not an economic and budgetary issue. There is no point in this. What kind of department is this? As there is no concept of university in nowhere, which has five students, who are asking to come to larger cities, rewrited. It really wants a debate and we don't close our eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u253	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u254	I shall conclude, Mr President. Some are matters of direct decision, some are issues such as spatial planning in higher education, which are issues for discussion in their time and without haste - I repeat - decisions. I conclude - and I apologise - by saying that there is one issue with the mobilisation of training directors. The New Democracy in 2007 had set twenty molecules for the interview. PASOK took it down to fifteen, and we keep it at fifteen. Who's the dead guy, let me get this straight?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u255	It's not the problem again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u256	I don't understand who the dead is!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u257	Please don't interrupt. Minister, finish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u258	For the molecules you've been yelling all this time, we've heard you! So it's not like we're reinstated the interview. Is that our difference? Are you against interviews? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u259	That you put less on everything else!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u260	They said they'd be elected directly. We are changing this, listening to the criticism that is being made. And now we're accountable again? I don't get it! One thing, not to spoil a mood we have, the circular is ready. He's already running. In order not to spoil a consciousness that we want to shape, I tell you that we are open to discussing problems. This does not mean that we are against political accountability and criticism. We have no objections to this as well, and we also cannot table the government's legislative initiative on urgent training problems, which, if we do not deal with them, we will reasonably cause not such timely questions but much worse than opposition and justifiablely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u262	Minister, first of all, no one has told you that the training directors' mandate is over and that you will change them. Of course you'll change them. If we are to be critical somewhere, it is a matter of bringing a random, sketchy amendment to the knee, and I am very pleased that you have already raised a matter of reviewing two aspects of this amendment on the part of the Independent Greeks. What do we say? I see that on this paper by Mr Gavroglou on dialogue there is the question of the administration of education. We will discuss, Minister, in substance procedures which are better than those of the n. 3848 or will we legislate with amendments that collapse and what is there, whatever effort there was? I say it again: I won't say it was perfect. So I proved what I supported - and I think - with arguments and with what I have tabled. But if you ask the matter bank that was in the interview... Are you going to make a bank of things, Minister, or are you going to spend them in five minutes, like hospital managers? Will the interview be structured? Will it be random? Because the issue bank was random. And I think that recording should also exist and there should be the guarantees for this interview, so that we don't go to interviews of the ultimate past. And unfortunately, at the moment I will remember the law of Paulopoulos - and let it be President of the Republic - I will remember these things, which we are not supposed to see again. However, despite the fact that, Minister, since the Step of the House, your predecessor, Mr. Kourakis, had said - and I have it here - 'We are not going to go to the interview because the interview is not good'. Make up your mind to SYRIZA. Are you with the interview, or are you against? Before you were against, after a few months, you were in favour. But there is a continuity of the government. Mr President, I really want this misunderstanding to end here, and I think it should be over. You said, Minister, that you were the thirty-seven secondments. Good. What Mr Baltas did? So the SYRIZA - ANEL government is charged only with your secondments, which you made after the elections, or is charged with the four thousand that were made by your predecessor? Obviously the government is charged with the four thousand distractions and not you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u263	In school years, we're counting. We didn't count for years of the world's birth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u264	No, you don't understand. What Mr Baltas did was for this school year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u265	For the last one!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u266	No, he didn't. You're wrong again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u267	Last year we count! Hundred thousand of you count!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u268	You're wrong, Minister. Listen to me. The secondments take place in the summer or much earlier, in the spring, ahead of the new educational year. So the SYRIZA - ANEL government, which took over by Genarris, could not - and would - do - for the previous school year or for the current year at that time. So cumulatively, he may have made some additions. Some additionals he did, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u269	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Baltas. But he did...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u271	We're talking about Mr. Loverdo. Let's talk with honesty. That's why he left the Chamber before shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u272	I think this is all incomplete. So accept, and we'll testify...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u273	Minister, don't interrupt. Mrs. Christophilopoulou, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u274	I think, however, that this misunderstanding is wrong because the Minister insists on the previous point I raised and on one point of view. That's not what's important. The important thing is that you said again that we are here for dialogue. I didn't hear you answer what we asked, though. You said you would legislate on emergencies. Were the POPs for the abolition of the management board's competence urgent?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u275	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u276	I mean, it was an emergency, so, uh...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u277	He responded to the voidity of the Council of State. It was an emergency, not an emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u278	Now, if you'll excuse me, will we? Is that how we're going to continue the conversation? Please. Please. Let's close here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u279	But he's asking me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u280	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you finish, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou is placed and we close here. Please. Please. This ball can't go on right now! Excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, I am not interrupting the Minister for Education! Do not talk to me, Mr President, because I did not interrupt the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u282	I've got you across the street!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u283	I'm not interrupting the Minister of Education. I'm so sorry! Do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u284	I've got you across the street!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u285	Who interrupted who, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u286	I'm sorry, I'm not addressing you personally. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u287	Yeah, but I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u288	Understood!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u289	I would therefore point out, Mr President, that I did not interrupt the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u290	But you're asking me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u291	I say that the last speaker is you and the last speaker will be from the Ministry, or Mrs. Anagnostopoulos or Mr. Friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u292	The Minister of Education insists that he has the right to interrupt...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u293	I would ask the Minister very much not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u294	I'm trying to regain my thoughts. Dialogue cannot take place at the same time as you do in acts relating to what we are discussing. That is to say, you are bringing the amendment on grazing land and you are abolishing the way. We said 'change the managers'. At the same time you say 'we will discuss the administration of education, but in the meantime I will intervene'. That wasn't urgent at all. You could use Law 3848 and choose these directors. He had the ability of the Minister. I challenged you to make the system more waterproof than it was. You're the one who made it a hole. He's watering from everywhere. So, in order to go to a dialogue, there should be a gentlemen's agreement on the agenda on the issues of dialogue, as should an agreement on the fact that we will not bring any gruesome amendments, at the same time that we are discussing these issues in the debate. Otherwise, Mr President, there can be no dialogue from us. We'll come in good faith. But if it happens again, you know we'll report it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Minister, will you or Mrs. Anagnostopoulos speak to close?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u296	Mrs Anagnastopoulou, Mr President
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u297	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor for five minutes and we close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u298	I will speak less, Mr President. There has been too much said. But I want to start with something. You're constantly accusing us of ideology and obsession. What I've seen all this time, from Genarris to today, is that ideoscopy and obsession characterize you. You have taken a law, the famous Diamantopoulou law, and you are beating it as the absolute criterion for being characterized as an ideoleptic or non-ideoleptic. That's exactly the idea. You've taken the institution councils, while the entire academic community is yelling... [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] But let me talk. You have taken the institution councils, while the entire academic community is shouting that these councils have created paralysis and especially their responsibilities. A board, a body at the university, can also have a role of operative and supervisory and auditing. It can't be done. There can be no heterosexuality in an institution, there can be no biarchy. You know that very well. Why was this law considered the sacred cow of the university, the academic system? Nobody's understood. In this society tertiary education worked on a characteristic, academicity was identified with democracy. Democracy equals academicity and vice versa. We know very well that the Diamantopoulou law undermined this very thing. I won't say it was badly intent. But I'll say it was from the idea of some people who were in this round. And we saw that we had huge problems in the election. You know it here as many as those you were preying on. Leave, Mr Papatheodorou, to see you in front of me and I remember that we were together in the Constitution and protest against the Diamantopoulou Act, for exactly the same reasons we are talking about. It is laughing at me now, and I remember your argument, because we were talking about this very much. We all had the same struggles. And I ask one thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u299	You referred personally to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u300	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u301	Because the operating problems that exist...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u302	Is the Bureau superfluous? Madam Minister, please, sit down and close with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u303	He made a personal report...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u304	No more questions now. That's it! Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u305	I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u306	I beg your pardon, but there is also the tolerance of the Bureau. I think we have left no complaints, either from the questioners, either from the political leadership or from the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, it's my fault I made a personal reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u308	As I said before, we are closing down with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, because the Minister referred to me, I think you should give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u310	Sit down, please. Madam Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u311	I would therefore like to say that the Councils have created problems and I think they were not in bad intentions. But they created problems. And they created a major problem, because they undermined what is a tradition of the Greek university. What can we do? Each area has its own tradition, which must be respected and, by pressing on it, to go somewhere else. And this tradition is about participation and democracy in the Greek university. It's a acquis that thing. The pre-selection of dean from all sides - right, left, whatever - was considered an anti-democratic thing. So the PPP, which we issued, responded to urgent problems, and because there were appeals and because there were five redundancies coming. So what with the councils should not be a prerequisite for dialogue. Let's make it a basis for us to go to the dialogue. We must have an unnegotiable thing between us that the participatory democratic university must be an unnegotiable basis. She was well or badly undermined. So we start from there. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'll close and I won't get far while we could say too much. All I can say is that for the councils and the others: do you know that they needed - and they never did - and that is why this paralysis has been done - on the two hundred presidential decrees so that the law can be implemented? They were held around six - seven - eight and still could not be implemented. Do you know that Arvanitopoulos was constantly reviewing or bringing ministerial decisions or provisions to enable this thing to function? Why this obsession? I really don't understand that, and I say it with the best faith as a university student. If we want to start national dialogue and if we want to put the major problems of higher education - which will indeed need consent - we have the issue of mapping the institutions and what institutions we want. That is where a great consensus is needed. Because as you well know - and I will not start 'we and we' - it filled a Greece with scattered sections, without any economics or academics or at all any provision, and it has created the chaos it has created. In circumstances, therefore, which require economic survival and democracy for higher institutions, this is the great bet for me of the national dialogue on higher education. The other big bet is student care, homes. When you've made so many scattered sections, that's also a big issue. Postgraduate, distance education. We have big issues to discuss. So do not start with this ideological thing called either councils or student participation. Is it possible for a democratic party - not a coalition - to speak of one thing that is the acquis of this university? So, we're gonna cancel all the possessions? Before one of you said life didn't start right now. Life doesn't start right now, how do we do it? So we say that two unnegotiable things must enter and then, of course, dialogue is open to everything and even to councils. Don't dismantle councils. Let's talk from there. Do we want them or do we not want them? What responsibilities? But let us make it clear, so that the universities, which are currently in full paralysis, can function, and that is why. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Minister. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for Health, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, State and Deputy Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, submitted a draft law on 14-12-2015: "Measures to speed up government work and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on number 4/4/16-11-2015, a topical question for Members of the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the collapse of education. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-14-S1-commons.u314	With the consent of the House at 23.25' the sitting is closed tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 December 2015, at 9.30' time, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
