ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Resolution on the whole draft law: "Reforms of criminal provisions, abolition of press detention stores and other provisions". Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill was passed on to the articles and the amendments last Friday, 17 April 2015. Under Rule 104 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the bill has been distributed with amendments and legislative improvements, which were accepted during the plenary debate. Based on the above, the House is asking...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u3	May I finish, Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like the floor before the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u5	The vote does not have a procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u6	Of course he's in a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u7	Wait a minute. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted and the whole as distributed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u8	Wait a minute! You can't go ahead. Give me the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u9	According to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the quorum...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u10	I want to speak on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u11	Wait a minute. I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u12	Are you guessing the question? How are you going to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u13	Wait a minute. You don't have the floor. Let me say something first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u14	I would like to place myself before the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u15	The Rules of Procedure of Parliament provide that the quorum is established by the Bureau, by the President-in-Office. And I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u16	How do you know what I mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u17	See Article 69(4)...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u18	How do you know what I mean? Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u19	I'll give you the floor. Don't insist. I'll give you the floor. Read, however, before Article 69(4) in which it states how the quorum is found.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u20	Give me the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Comrade, don't talk at the same time. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would remind the House that last week, on Thursday, 16 April, the President of the Parliament, when entering the Chamber, with a delay of fifty minutes, interrupted the sitting, invoking Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure and finding that there was no quorum to start the sitting. We then expressed our reservations about the possibility of the President of establishing a quorum for the opening of the sitting and pointed out what the President herself said, that under the Rules of Procedure of the House and Rule 24 the House cannot decide without an absolute majority of the Members present. Since then, where this precedent was imposed by the President itself, it is quite clear that the House cannot decide - that is to say, to vote on the bill as a whole - because there are not seventy-five Members in the Chamber. I would therefore ask you to suspend the sitting or postpone the vote for a later. The Members will, if necessary, then appear. I imagine that there will be no objections from this House to suspend the parliamentary control procedure and the vote will normally be taken. In no case can the vote be taken. I imagine that the President, from Rome, will be very concerned about the practice of canceling, the policy which he has implemented from you, too. I imagine the Bureau has a common view on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u23	Take it off the screen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Kikilia, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u25	I would ask that the vote should not be taken until the quorum, which the President itself required, has been established.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u27	Here, Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I think there is a very conscious process at the moment in order to pave the way for a very simple procedure. Last time, the President, after the delay, said that a decision had to be taken at the beginning of the debate on the draft law on a procedure which would follow the next two days. It was a completely different subject. Today, this is a completely formal matter. I think that this is a matter of consciousness in order to make a fuss about nothing at all. Let's look at this a little bit seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u29	Mrs Constantopoulos will be saddened with what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u30	Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, although the procedure which Mr Mitsotakis mentioned did not take a position in favour of the procedure, nor against - which the President of Parliament has chosen - we have to agree that it would be better not to have two standards, depending on how things are going to work. It is obviously a trivialisation of Parliament's procedures when, once, we can start or be justified - we do not know why the procedure was not initiated on time - we raise a question of quorum to start the procedure. I would remind you that the debate was not opened at that time. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament raise a question of quorum in the vote. It was raised by the President of Parliament for the first time in the debate, although it was not mentioned in the Rules of Procedure, and now we are discussing the possibility of starting the vote without quorum. I think that, for reasons of order and management of the same situations, the vote should be postponed or ten minutes, as was then given for plenary to be filled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, because you are a man of understanding and dialogue, I would very much ask you to find out where the contradictory and authoritarian methods of the President of this Parliament lead us, since the fifty-seven Members who found that they were not a quorum are now much less. So you should decide, as the Bureau, that the House operates in a uniform way and uniform criteria, so that we do not have to find a solution. I, the day before yesterday, raised the point that it was wrong for the President to postpone the sitting, because the Rules of Procedure did not provide for the interpretation which she was given by herself and without asking the House, I do not raise a point. But, traditionally, when it voted for the bills, the House voted for them by the rapporteurs and because I have been here ten years, I cannot indulge myself. I would like to ask you, therefore, that today's lessons should be learned about the Bureau and its President so that we do not lead to contradictory, authoritarian and degrading procedures for Parliament. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u34	After those positions, which have their own logic and, in particular, Mr Koutsouko's position on which we thank him, but also the others, on the basis of and the attractions, and - I repeat - in accordance with Rule 69(4), and I speak with a reasonable understanding and not procedural difficulties for no reason - I would be the first one to put it - I think that I can see that there is a quorum and I ask this House to proceed with the consent of this House in the vote and ask whether the bill is accepted and as a whole as it has been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u35	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u36	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u37	I want to agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u38	We have heard your opinion. With her as a given...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u39	We don't have a quorum...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u40	Please, they don't need any conversations. At the moment, I can see that there is a quorum on the basis of the attractions that have been made. Does this House accept the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u41	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u42	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Reforms of criminal provisions, abolition of press detention stores and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, only debated at the outset, articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u43	I want to thank all Parliament's wings for their understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u44	The procedure is not over, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u45	Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you want something? By way of derogation, let's hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u46	Now that you have been nervous enough to vote for the bill as a whole, I would like to highlight and repeat what Mr Koutsoukos said. What has happened today will be a precedent from now on for how Parliament takes decisions. Cheap excuses, which put the burden of the President's delay in this House, will not be accepted from now on, Mr President. The reality... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, especially the younger ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u48	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u49	We listen very well and with very, very...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u50	The process is over. It's never happened before!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u51	Vangelis, don't go!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u52	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Diamantopoulou, leave! It's all right! Go! Go! Go! Hello!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u54	Please! They don't need these.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u55	Let us therefore agree, Mr President - and I say this with my respect - that this House has certain rules and traditions. Yes, the bills are passed by the rapporteurs as a whole. Similarly, the quorum is found at the discretion of the Bureau, not as it suits it. So I hope that what has been done today will be a lesson in the Bureau as a whole, not only to you and not to be confronted with a interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the House, as Mrs Constantopoulos wishes to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Mrs. Gerovali has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u57	With the experience of recent years in the previous parliamentary term, we are in a position to say that we do not accept lessons from parliament, let alone Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Not to mention all the creepy details now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u58	Report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u59	Therefore, even though the New Democracy and, possibly, Mr Mitsotakis were very disturbed by the vote on the bill and yet again he is trying to defer, without any respect for the President of Parliament, all of this has fallen into the void. Mr President, the process must continue properly and I would ask my fellow Members to enter the logic of Parliament at last!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Kutsuko, is it necessary?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u63	I just want to make one comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u64	In the previous phase, you were making it very easy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u65	When I was a little boy, my late father said: "Double is not enough, just reaching and abundant." Because I was a kid, I couldn't figure out what he meant. So now that I've grown up I realize that forty are more than fifty-seven! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u66	I don't get used to it. I just want to say that what happened today in accordance with the spirit and letter of the House's Rules of Procedure, and I think, as we have all seen and as has been said from all sides, we have proceeded correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the reading of REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Panayota Dritselli, to read out the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u68	SYRIZA's MP, Mr Olga Gerovasili, has submitted a private report to the Minister for Health on the conditions for his retirement with successive insurance. Attica MEP Pavlos Haikalis of ANLE filed private reports to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on: In a protest by an insured person under the pension scheme due to her insurance liabilities. A claim made by an insured person which, due to a particular insurance situation, cannot be retired. MEP Kozanis Mr. Charisios Katanas of ANELs filed a private report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on extrajudicial nuisance - an invitation to the Department of Studies and Student Care on the possibility of transferring a post - rewrited athlete. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos of PASOK submitted a private report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs concerning the award of a fee for the delivery of an ancient engraved sculpture to the Museum of Astros of Northern Kynouria. MP Achaias Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos of the ANELs filed private reports to the Prime Minister concerning a request for a private investor on the basis of relevant election announcements, to the Prime Minister and Ministers of National Defence, Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Economics, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the submission of a proposal from the Federation for the development of shipbuilding, to the Prime Minister and Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the need for the immediate abolition of the Foundation Councils after the enormous failure of the completely inapplicable relevant law for universities, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the inclusion of the Organisation for Thyriatric EMOMET (Greek Organization of Small and Medium Enterprises and Crafts) in the draft legislation of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Reconstruction of the Ministry of Reconstruction of Public Reformation of the public sector. In the protest about dismissal and injustices against municipal police and suggestions for the re-establishment of the Municipal Police. In the request to cover the positions of private fire extinguishers of a five-year obligation. To the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the abolition of the grant of a foreign language education to holders of Proficiency certificates within the framework of European legislation, without prejudice to acquired rights of already holders of adequacy and licence. In the request - a proposal to take a competent legislative initiative on the definition of two types of schools: firstly, the experimental sections of the university pedagogical departments, where pupils will be introduced by chance; secondly, the model or historical schools where students will be introduced by examinations or tests or other selection. In restoring deficits in the general high school and sports bank bill. In the protest on the negative response of the Municipality of Patras to the proposal of the Sports Club "Prometheus" to rebuild the auxiliary closed field of the "Tophalos". In the request for appointment as Director General of the Hellenic Film Centre. In the request for permanentization of third-party teachers and their assimilation to multiples. In the need to operate and start within the academic year 2015-2016 of the Department of Architecture - Engineering of the University of Ioannina. In the request to take advantage of the Greek public of a relic concerning the composition of Byzantine music by the well-known composer Peter Philanthi. Restoring the Olympic Pantechon matches. In calling for the upgrading of the teaching of the lesson of Religiouss and the strong protest about the establishment of a section of Muslim Studies at the Theological School of Thessaloniki. In the out-of-court call for the possibility of transferring a place of relocation - athlete. In the protest about the decision to maintain the same person in the position of Director of the Thessaloniki Film Festival. To the Ministers for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the request to remove a series of occupational harassment at the expense of an official from a head of authority at work within the National Technical University. To the Ministers of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and State (to combat corruption) regarding familydom, illegal recruitment and corruption at the National Technical University. To the Ministers for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs and Finance concerned with the request to reduce the high tax on luxury private use (IX) and to tax on the private use of luxurious vehicles of luxurious families. To the Ministers for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Home and Administrative Reconstruction on the need to establish a common use, a publicised code of protection and safety indicators in educational areas and other local environments, such as workplaces, town districts, counties and regions of the country. To the Ministers of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and State (To Combat Corruption), on the problems of the Association of Greek Gymnastic Sports Associations (SEGAS), the control over financial management by the administration of this institution of millions of euros, as well as the regime for the implementation of relevant judicial decisions. To the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning a protest against the deterioration of the farmer's profession in Aegiala after the abolition of the Office for Agricultural Development of Egypt. In a request to suspend the current positioning of the CYTA Graphic, due to the inappropriateness of the existing, as risks of contamination of the aquifer are concealed. In a request for the lifting of the hunting ban in an area of Epirus, following earlier actions and documentation by the Hunting Federation of Epirus (COM). To the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on the complaint concerning an offence of infidelity in a Laconia municipality. In the problem posed by the non-recovery of garbage and their stay in piles for long periods of time within the city of Tower. To the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Economics, Maritime and Tourism Infrastructures and Economics, on the unexplained burden on consumers against the'regulated charges' which appear in electricity consumption accounts. To the Minister of Finance, concerning the request for the correction of wage inequalities in the tax sector, appointed by a notice from the AACC. In calling for a reduction in the income tax on the professions. In an appeal to speed up the introduction of the hundreds of doses in the possibility of tax debt being repaid by natural persons. In the proposals for the draft law on due date, posted on the “opengov” website. In objections and proposals to increase taxation on alcoholic beverages, excise duty ( excise duty) and value added tax (VAT) on customs offices for the production of spirituous beverages and the regulation of late payment of small and medium-sized enterprises in the industry. In clearing questions from the Union about regulation of online gambling. In proposals to combat tax evasion and establish a fair tax system. To the Finance, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Ministers on proposals to the political leadership to resolve the problems facing our country. In a request for rationalisation of the applicable system of objective values. To the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the issue of stamps in honor of national benefactors. In complaints about the stock exchange's relationship during the pre-crisis period, by increasing nominations in the public sector and by causing a bubble on the property market. In a request to adjust a hundred instalments from late VAT debts, which were established late. To the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on a request - a complaint about the reductions in the school budgets of Thesprotia, which led to poor heating of facilities in local schools. To the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the need to relapse the Corinth - Patras - Chacona motorway. To the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on a protest against the process of selecting a lawyer from the state in an impending trial. To the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the request for a solution to be launched for those affected by “SPA” and “COMMERCIAL VALUE”, upon appointment and associated meeting with the relevant political leadership.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs Dricksel. Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS First we will discuss the first question with number 99/154-2015, the first question of the first cycle of MP II, the Radical Left coalition, Evangelia Karakostas, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the change in the location of the forthcoming trial of the Golden Dawn. He is here and will be answered by Minister Nikolaos Paradopoulos. Mrs Caracosta, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u70	Minister, of course, the time when the question is being asked is quite delayed. However, it remains timely after today's image we had outside the Korydallos prisons. In other words, because this question has been raised by Mrs Catrivanou, I have to say that the difficult problems have been verified in this area, given that you too, Minister, have accepted that there is a problem. The question I ask, following the clarification you have made to Mrs Catrivanou, is why do you not exercise your right to classify the Chamber and to transfer it to another, as does the civil action, but also to many bodies, in the courtroom?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to reply to your last question and specifically because the Korydallos Chamber is not declassified as a courtroom for the conduct of this particular trial, when there are major problems. My answer is that there is no other available at the moment. After all, the size of this trial is unprecedented. The number of indictees and journalists, in view of the interest of the trial, which is both social and international, creates a need for an area that was not ready in Greek territory to date. This place was designated as a court of law ten to fifteen years earlier, as you know. Since 2014, however, a new process of modernising the room has been launched to add posts to the audience and technical equipment is needed to carry out the trial. The fact that this room has problems was well known. This is an emergency. This is not a solution, which seems to be able to meet all the requirements that exist to carry out a process so important. We have, however, reached this point, because the alternative, namely the large courtroom of the Athens Court of Appeal, could not be given, because it was also institutionally, of course, the decision of the competent Court of Appeal - and indeed in a plenary session - which accepted that this Chamber cannot be used because it would disrupt the conduct of the courts in general, but was not technically prepared. So, at the moment, we have not been able to offer another space that is less problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Karakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u74	Minister, I understand the technical details. Firstly, I call them details because they could have been solved, given that the demand that the trial not to take place there has also been put by the lawyers - I do not know exactly how to formulate it - by both the prosecutors and the mayors of the region and by the movement of the region a long time ago. I believe that both the justice and political leadership of the Ministry must be decided on the basis of the social criterion. And as you'd see today, we already had serious stories. We had trabuccisms, we had a wounded man. We have neighborhoods where there are deadlocks where people don't know how to move. We'll have serious problems. I think, therefore, that it outweighs the technical details of solving these social problems. I would like, because I know your sensitivities - we have seen it in the bill that we have passed - to take care of the matter and take over the right you have by law, because that is an administrative measure and it belongs to you. The law on the definition of rooms belongs to the Minister. The law didn't happen by chance. This is not a procedural measure, but an administrative measure. So I think you should decide on this as soon as possible. Today, I may also make a mistake - and the Prosecutor left such a margin. We should not, therefore, leave that issue. We must resolve this immediately and not stay in the technical details. We need to resolve them as soon as possible and transfer the trial. Minister, if you had the image of today in the area, you would not delay a second, given your own sensitivities. In other words, you need to take this responsibility and go ahead in order to solve the problem of all the municipalities of Piraeus II. You know very well - you have heard it - that too many actors have been involved in this process, and that is what they are asking for. We must consider them. I think that that is what the political leadership must do, but also the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u76	I would like to assure you, Madam President, that as soon as the invitations to the parties had been sent, it was too late for a change to be made to the Chamber. At the moment, this can only be decided by the Seed, the Court of Justice, if it considers that the circumstances in which the court is called upon to judge are problematic and do not allow for a comfortable and judicious trial to be conducted. If the court finds this, then the Ministry of Justice, taking into account the infrastructure there are and the difficulties, will do everything in its power to find an alternative room. At the moment, however, there is no other room that is immediately available. Furthermore, there is no possibility of intervention in the Council of Appeal, which considered that the possibility of using the Chamber of Appeal at the moment is not an acceptable prospect in view of the need to carry out the rest of the proceedings as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u77	And we thank the Minister. We move to the second with number 101/15-4-2015, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens MP, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the disasters in the center of Athens and the Law School of Athens. The Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Panousis, is present, who will reply. Please, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u78	Minister, I had asked you the relevant time-consuming question about a month ago on the grounds of the disasters that had been observed because of the five-day occupation of the Law School. I had the opportunity to update it slightly and to take into account the fact that for eighteen days the historic building of the Rector of the University of Athens was occupied and only on the nineteenth day there was mediation, intervention by the police forces to evacuate the Rector from the fourteen - as proved - squatches that had been occupied for eighteen days, defaming the image of the country abroad and, of course, preventing the operation of the university. I must also point out that, in the past two months as a whole - I would point it out in my question - there has been an outbreak of vandalism and brutal aesthetics, but also a real abuse of historical buildings in the center of Athens and not just. I had the opportunity to be in Chania for Easter, where I found with great grief that the entire old city has been abused by the well-known slogans of terrorist liberation and the associated slogans that dominate the anarchist space. So I ask you directly: What do you intend to do from now on to prevent such phenomena? How do you understand as the Minister of Civil Protection and Public Order the concept of occupation? Is it a practice that is acceptable to you? Should it be twenty days before you intervene as a competent ministry? Finally, how do you intend to deal with this well-known outbreak of violence, which has occurred in the center of Athens in recent months from known anti-powered areas?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u80	Mr Pinheiro, first of all I shall submit to the Minutes the overall figures for historical reasons and not everything, for historical truth. It's about a hundred pages. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr Ioannis Panousis presents for the Minutes the above information, which is found in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In answer to the quantitative aspect of your questions, how many, when, I will tell you the following example: In the last ten years there have been hundreds of forty-five occupations, i.e. fifteen annually, about one per month. Twenty occupations took place during the time we had the Roman problem. If one sees the extremist actions, the detainees, the damaged cars in the previous period and now, it will see a very big difference. So, Mr Papoutsis, we are facing the symptoms and not the causes of post-multiple pathogens: lawlessness, impunity, netting. I have often said that political and social problems are not solved by the police. For example, how many villas have been occupied for twenty years, how many times have prosecutors ordered the police to enter and never entered? So something is happening in Greek society or in the Greek state. I think it's not time for segregation. When fifteen-year-old girls throw molotov, when the bahalakis hire their service, when neoterrorism threatens democracy, when we are the only country where we have armed violence for forty years, the parties, the bodies and society must discuss politically and not oppositionally for each other. At the same time, however, each body must take responsibility - the universities remain unharmed, while the law provides the agency and the special protection regulation - the mayors, the media, the intellectuals, the missing parents, of course, the government - obviously and the government. So synergy, consensus and coordination, or else, we'll keep hitting the symptom and coming out of the problem. That is why we must not confuse the weighting. In cases, that is, crises and conflicting legal goods, but also resulting risks from the conflict, we must not say that we are talking about tolerance, deprivation of the state, of the Minister's disquiet and go by saying. Occupation is a phenomenon of postpopulation. He's got a symbolic character. It's going well. He's got a social character. It's going well. He's got a dynamic character. That's where we come. If it becomes criminal, it's another matter. Before we see how we live in a new context of crime and insecurity, we need to see how police and justice operate in the rule of law to manage this new environment of crime and insecurity, we need to see how the police can protect the rights of citizens without oppressing them. But this is what he wants, because this triangular relationship between the state and the police forces has red lines: it leaves no room for immunity, arbitrary discontent, or for these phenomena that we have been seeing recently. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The police must therefore operate with a sense of democratic legitimacy. At the same time, however, the political system must also take responsibility for what is going on for forty years. There is exactly what has happened in Exarchia from 2012 to 2014. So the area of rights in which the police have to operate must at the same time be an area of responsibility for all those involved in what we call the 'unpurpose of democracy'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u82	Minister, I listened very carefully to you and I am pleased that in this Chamber and at this particular moment in time, you have also made a reference to the phenomenon of armed violence that is forty years afflicting the Hellenic Republic. In fact, I heard you say that we should discuss political matters. I wonder, then, whether the political debate last week did not take place in this very Chamber, on the basis of the relevant provision of the Ministry of Justice, which ultimately leads to the release of Savva Xiros? Wasn't that a policy? And in this debate, did the majority finally not take the view that humanism prevails, which says that here we are dealing with a convicted five times in life, with a noted killer, which we are finally releasing with, and indeed with, the impact on the foreign policy sphere? Weren't we talking about all this? Only here we are not a philosophical group. I listen with interest to your sociological approaches to the problem of Exarchates and to the consolidation of the concept of occupation in Post-Civilization Greece, but here you are not in the position of observer and commentator. I, like many others, read with great interest an indignation article that you wrote in "NEA" a few weeks ago, where you said some very good things about how some concepts related to the Left are basically falsifying the values of the Left. But, Minister, you have executive power at your disposal. If you have internal discussions with your political leaders - your political leader, that is, the Prime Minister, because you are referring to him as the Deputy Minister - you must solve them so that we do not have to suffer the suffering of the conquests and the culmination of universities, until the government has made it very clear how it is perceived. I saw with interest that today your ministry was visited by the Prime Minister. In fact, he also made a reason for explaining how he perceives order issues. In fact, I was struck by a report - which I would like you to comment on - on the democratic weighting in crisis management. What exactly does 'democratic weighting of crisis management' mean? What are the interests, public goods, when you illegally occupy a 'bugs' space, as you have told them, drug addicts and known anti-powermakers who manufacture molotovs? I cannot see exactly what the 'democratic weight' the Prime Minister claims is. We are not talking here about limiting democratic rights to a demonstration. Of course, there may be discussions that should take place in our home country, for example, if it is reasonable to take the whole street by ten protesters and close the whole city. That is where I really might be able to understand that, yes, we are going to have a weighting debate. But in the case of recruitment, what exactly are we talking about? And one last thing, Mr President, with your tolerance, about your answers to two comments you made on the occasion of the Prime Minister's visit. You spoke about 'any democratic police control'. But, well, isn't the police controlled today? Isn't there a political leader? Why do you put 'democratic control to the police'? I think it's completely self-evident. Secondly - and I shall end with this, Mr President - you have spoken of the police's social profile and the need to be a guardian - an angel of the besieged and protector of the poor. The officer is not a social worker, Minister. The policeman is responsible for enforcing the law and order and will protect not only the rights of the poor and the oppressed, but also the rich, the visitor, the tourist, the every citizen who has the right to move in the center of Athens. So let these class approaches to the role of the police and finally make sure that the police do their job properly. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Deputy Minister of Citizen Protection has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u84	Mr Colleagues, we have a difference in approach. The police must act on at least four levels: social, preventive, deterrent and forced, what we call'suppressive'. It's not her job to arrest. It is not her job alone - which should be - the shielding of society against organised crime and terrorism, etc. He plays other roles, not least if he wants to reconcile with the citizen. So in our minds, it's not the policeman running around with the club, the shield, the helmet to arrest someone. He is the policeman who goes to school and protects children by talking to them about cyber creme or who finds other ways to inform the neighborhood - the "Police Officer" - about the dangers of everyday life. So we're going for another police first. Secondly, the Prime Minister said that it was not only symbolic about the visit, it was also substantial. Defined the role of police in 2015. What does it mean by 'democratic weight'? Look, each of us assesses the present risk with future or parallel risks. I will give an example: it was denounced that in the Law School, while there was an indictment, we did not go in. There was a weighting. I, too, will be judged by the government if what we thought could happen as a continuation of these confiscations by entering into law was right or not right. I would remind you, however, that when the event took place in the House and the protesters came out, the police arrested them and handed them over to the prosecutor, who weighed and left them free. I would remind you that the masters also make weights, because they know many things that they do not communicate to the prosecutor, they do not announce to the police, they do not announce to society, and they sometimes explode and create what we see. I didn't say about democratic police control. I said for a permanent parliamentary committee of democratic control of policing. Obviously, the police are subject to the Constitution, the law, the physical and political leadership. He doesn't need anyone else. The police, which is more than police force as a institution of democracy, must be controlled. And what instrument is it to control it? What has the greatest legitimacy, the Greek Parliament. So we can agree on too many things. Errors can be made. And I'm rethinking my handlings. I'm not so sure it had to be. There is no hostility between us, i.e. I and Mr. Voutsi, we disagree with the Prime Minister, and so on. We are trying to see a phenomenon - it is not a crime act of one or two or three people - which is hitting everywhere - and, in my opinion, it will continue - which is trying to play a political game through the occupations rather than a syndicate as it used to be in universities, etc., so that a law, for example, does not pass on to European standards, etc. So we have a new phenomenon. This new phenomenon requires political and social management. He doesn't just want police management. Even if we catch ten, and the previous governments catch and we in Exarcheus dozens of people, again Exarcheia exist, new teams of neoterrorism are born. So we have to discuss why forty years have we had this phenomenon in this country? What was it that gave birth and kept it? Why did the Italian Government and the German Government talk about it after the end of the Bander-Minhoff and the Bringate Rose, and we did not discuss the end of November 17, what was it that gave birth and kept it alive? So I think that in many of the things you say, I am concerned. I would like you to think, however, that the rule of law is in place at the moment, and the rights exist. Mild management does not mean denying our obligations as government for the safety of citizens and social peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the third with number 94/44/2015, a top-stage question for the first cycle of the Athens MP, Potamios Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, on delays in the process of submitting tax declarations for the financial year 2015. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Finance, Mr Olga - Nadia Valvaani. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, allow me a timely intervention. 'We will restore the functioning of Parliament that had been abolished through continuous legislative acts. Our Government will remain in history as the government that kept its word." Scheduled statements on 8 February, President of the Greek Government Mr. Tsipras. Allow me to express: What is the score in these three months? Two bills, two acts of legislation. You and the Prime Minister are, unfortunately, losing your credibility. You have no reserves of parliamentary credibility, when within three months you get back these right, which you yourself have declared. You have no liquidity reserves, because that is what the legislative act does in trying to support the budget. And you don't have any stock of negotiating power since what you're doing shoots the negotiating team itself, which is not armored. That is why we were asking you to shield the relocations and to be able to make this negotiation, with the proceeds being shielded. Instead, you are giving up debts, demanding the people, whom you yourself are urging not to pay, and of course all these problems are created, as I have said, in the negotiations right now in Paris, later in Brussels and perhaps later in Athens. However, I will also see you tomorrow in the debate on the legislative act. To come to the object. The General Secretariat for Public Revenue this year has been slower than almost every year. They hadn't left the literature until before when I asked that question. Meanwhile, the legal and natural person forms have been released. It's been a few days. However, there is no justification for any delays, which are not so great. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. The failure of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue alone can justify it. I'll hear your objections. However, I should like to say that from 17 March with a press release, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue confirmed the total lack of planning and announced the extension of the availability of the application from 31 March to 30 March and the possible extension of already natural persons. Negotiation is not a funny thing. It is obvious that it is perhaps the highest duty the government is doing at the moment. However, we see that the statements that have been delayed more than ever create a problem for both revenue and for legal persons. So, then, we ask you when they will be issued - and I think they have some of them - the decisions on electronic tax forms and on legal and natural persons and when you plan to start and end all statements, real submissions. Please do not answer me for the formal times to which you will now give extensions if you have calculated how much about you will give. Finally, when will taxes on natural and legal persons be collected and what corrective steps will be taken to ensure that the budget is properly implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u88	My dear colleague, you know much better than I did since you were Secretary-General of Public Revenue, that after twenty years that were the case, you were. 2238/1994- with small differences since 1994, the summer of 2013 was voted n. 4172 and I would say - I will not agree with you - real substantial differences, since on the one hand it calls for the eyes of the Virgin Mary and on the other hand it would have to be redesigned - as needed - all forms for both legal and natural persons. There could not be an improved version of the well-known tax declarations, which was actually every year for two decades. If I have to set an example - you know them better than I do - we have had radical changes in the taxation of agricultural incomes, in relation to the undistributed or capitalised reserves of legal persons, up to the unfavorable tax of the first euro, the children's documents, etc. This is the one side. The second side is that, as if these changes were not enough, we had successive legislative amendments in a series of laws that changed the legal framework that had already had radical changes in the summer of 2013. I will only tell you the most important of them, because they are scattered in a huge body of such tax legislation, such as the n. 4223/2013, i.e. since the very year of the new Income Tax Code, such as n. 4254/7-2014, that is, in the space where you were the same Secretary General of Public Revenue and then from the time that Mrs Savvaidou was, Mr. See Case 4305/31-10-2014, p. 4307/15-11-2014 and n.4316, where the thing is a little bit bits, as the FEK got out on Christmas Eve. While we were going for elections, even then the income tax would change. I must tell you, with all honesty, that we also made such an intervention, not the one we were asked by the journalists since February, when I entered the ministry and asked: 'What are you going to do? Is it possible for a left government to accept tax declarations in the financial year 2014?’ And they are the ones that the new Income Tax Code is being applied for the first time. These are the ones that will be called to testify this year. I was trying to explain that it's not possible, because if you interfere in the core of an income tax bill, it actually collapses. You need to make two bills in the same year. One for the current use, with regard to declarations, and one for the use that will take place next year, which is not the case, of course, you must change the budget radically. The current budget is based on the income tax that has been voted on last year, the liquidation takes place and the instalments are paid this year. However, although we have explained that whatever we want and it is really imperative to state we will review them in the second semester and the tax bill for the financial year 2015, we have done so by n. 4321 that was the setting for the hundred instalments for the relaunching of the economy voted on 21-3-2015. We abolished some completely extreme cases, such as those with the block, the young children, who, if we did not do so, would be taxed as if they were freelance professionals and would get them more than they had taken. As for adults usually unemployed young children who have some rent or deposit interest and who acted on evidence without income. For example, they brought me a clearing house that, with 1 euro interest, had been paid EUR 1.208 together with 55% of the budget, things that do not stand in common sense. As would have been the case with the foreigners at a time when we want to bring and at any rate keep the deposits they have in Greece, while they do not live here, since they have even a euro interest income, we charge them with implied taxes, as if they were present here. And finally, the unrelenting rents we have then done and we would unfortunately not do so - even though taxing you at 11% or 33% for rents you have not collected is against any logic - but because of this delay we have only been able to correct it because they do not come under tax returns because they have to go to tax. This ends the responsibility of the legislator and of the governments and starts the execution of the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue. It was necessary to adopt tens of decisions and interpretative circulars. I would also say, of course, that in order for them to be ready on time and to be able to open, I do not have time at this time, but I can then fill out what I am saying to you - to have the forms determined and to have electronic processing started in the autumn. That's obvious. They can't make it any different. You know the time. I would say to you that the treatment should have begun even before June and from your period and that it would have continued intensively until September at least, let me in October - at most - so that they could be opened at the time when they should be opened. Finally, with all this, the dozens of POLs that had to come out early April have been decided, following the exodus of the officials' meetings, that the three forms for legal persons should become two and finally - for reasons of simplification - one, which I think is positive, and now they are at the e-design stage with very high pressure. The prediction is that the statements of both legal persons and individuals will be opened in the first week of May, that is, the next days after the May Day. The end of the declarations will be effected normally. I say that it will normally be because the new Code on Income Tax for the first time provides for fixed dates of payment of the tax, three months of payments - July 31, 30 and 30 November - regardless of the date, earlier or later. Such an objective is difficult today. It is, however, possible with a lot of organisation and on the basis of last year's figures. Because I have spoken very much, I will then be able to explain why it is possible under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am not entirely convinced of all the justification for this delay. If you want, take it from me, from my experience: Last year to open the tax statements, we started processing in August. It was the first time that this was done and we were able to announce on 2 January 2014 all the dates for the start and end of tax declarations, which we actually kept in letter other than E9, which was because the government wanted to change HNVY and so we had to wait for legislative change. That thing didn't happen. It is not just your fault, it is obvious that we are talking about a period when you were not in the government - I want to be fair in this - but that does not mean that there should not be any immediate acceleration from the time you took up your duties, because, as I have said, there are many issues relating to the implementation of the budget and, in particular, the June negotiations. It is not possible for a government to go to Brussels and negotiate when the budget is not kept and does not have the funds to enable the state to operate and pay wages and pensions. In this light, it is welcome and very good that the process of pooling the two forms of legal persons has been carried out, but at the present time, bureaucratic purpose and targeting are secondary to the collection of public revenues, particularly at present. I would also like to say that it has actually been possible, because there has been a characteristic delay in the services to get the press and the contents of the forms. With regard to the termination of legal persons, it is under normal circumstances that ends in April. These statements have not even begun. You told us they'd start in May. So, instead of having eight and nine instalments, companies will be forced to operate with six and seven instalments or fewer. This means that in a period of reduced liquidity we will even more compress companies to meet their obligations and I assure you that this will reduce tax collection and reduce the State's overall revenues. I am telling you that - perhaps you do not know and I would like to help you in your work - at the moment in the income tax of legal persons we have received 2.8 billion last year, we budget 2.7 billion this year and with the changes, particularly the uncertainties you mentioned, we may have a hole of 700 million to 1 billion with which changes have been made to legal persons. For natural persons, no changes have been made as big as the services might have told you to justify this delay. The big change is that the pay certificate did not open even last year's innovation, which was able to reduce far too much the time to submit statements, because all the employees and pensioners saw all their salaries ready and paid and could thus by pressing a button to complete their statements. What the Secretariat-General has given up to 30 June will not be possible, we will have no pre-paid statements, that is, another step backwards. As I said, last year the dates were announced, this year, one step back. This year we have had pre-paid declarations, we will not have until the end of June until 30, and you will only be forced on that basis to extend. If you take the time from last year when you are planning to open, and I even calculated the 20th of the month that the statements were open today, and you tell us that they will be opened from May, the same time as last year, on 20 April, we would have had 20 August at the end of this year. If you say early May, we'll have early September. You will therefore be forced to come and legislate on these fixed dates. One cannot declare the end of August and have a payment obligation of 31 July. So you will be forced to make a payment of September and November in two instalments, so most of the revenue we budget - and I would remind you that about 3 to 3.5 billion of the revenue from the declarations - all this money is going backwards and they will come to you in September and we will have a black hole in the very place of July, June and August that we have both ending bonds and negotiating debt. So I'm telling you, see what you can do so that you can bring this issue back to an account. It'll cause you problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. The Deputy Minister for Finance, Mr Olga - Nadia Valavani, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u92	I wanted to say that the first time that the first code applies, the new Code of Income Tax is for the year 2014, so the figures for last year are basically not comparable with data from last year in terms of management. That's the first. Secondly, we have no intention of changing the fixed tax dates starting with two months' payments from 31 July. Leaving things like this, without intervention, we will of course have to change them. But, as things are, with a very good organization and excellent cooperation with those who have the main weight, first of all accountants and taxpayers and, secondly, with the tax authorities, we have the possibility - at most - of getting tax declarations to a minimum of ten days. I would like to refer to the experience of last year to explain why. Last year they really opened up for a long time, as planned or about as planned, from March 20 and closed their normal interval on June 30. A two-month extension was then granted and arrived until 31 August. In other words, they were open instead of the two-month period which will necessarily be open this year, about five and a half months. However, we can see this. The first month was as if it were not there, because it was about 0.1% of the tax returns submitted to the total of about six million tax declarations. The second month was about 3.7%. The main job was done in the two-month period from 1 May to 30 June, which normally expired, when a 67% was added, in order to reach 71% of the tax declarations. It took the two summer months, July and August, to be able to complete this 30% and reach six million declarations and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u93	The extension was granted until 14 July. It was late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u94	You're probably right. On the basis of the evidence provided by DELED, they seem to have received statements by 31 August. If, then, about 97% of the declarations were given by 31 July, that is to say 3%, they were late to reach these six million. I can then give the relevant table so that we won't be late. What does that mean, practically? It means that under these circumstances, if we manage to organise from now on as the work needs, there will be no problem changing the payment of tax payments and there will certainly be no problem implementing the budget or any gap. It is enough that there can be the real problem in these cases, which is whether there is actually a tax capacity, so that they can be covered in the way they need the doses they need. We're going to work this out this week. We're going to make one last intervention. The question we are thinking about bringing them forward is to have a chance, a small bonus, compared to those who are paying for a one-off payment on 30 July already. I must say, Mr Theoché - and I must end with this - that I do not accept what you said about the negotiation. Because the negotiation, as you know, has not been blocked by the doses we have not yet arranged. We have not collected the instalments of income tax, which are already to be collected in September. There was the problem of squabbling revenues in the election month, which we did not have the government. There was a containment in February, a much smaller reduction and, as you know, in March we had an overcompensation in revenue. Of course, I must say that I do not accept what you say we give the debts. I do not want to make a designation, but, in any case, when you have three million people, who cannot get rid of 3 000 euros per capita, you need an analgesia to think that one is a debt gift. I would like to say that the degree of readiness to respond to the arrangements is very great. This shows exactly the situation of Greek society. It tells them all the fact that from 16% in 2010, the time-limit for GDP was 40% of GDP at the end of 2014. Only for his public debts in such a situation, if we did not take all the measures he needs, would we really be unaltered. We need to see the situation of society around us. I will tell you that in the arrangement - express in March, within eight days, they participated a hundred and fifty thousand people and received 147 million, some of them even since the 1970s, 1980s, 1990s and before 2009 which are considered to be inexorably inextricable. The current statement opened around 23.00 hours on Friday evening and by noon today when I received data for the last time, although in these two and a half 24 hours it was within the weekend, which you understand, it is difficult, they had already submitted final declarations of thirty thousand people for a single sum of 300 million, either total repayment or partial repayment, about 17 million euros. This shows that the Greek society is waiting for and what needs when it comes out of a process of virtually five years of memorial rule and at the same time under credit suffocation conditions imposed by creditors to push for an impeccable real compromise in the context of the negotiations in Brussels. And in this sense not only the relief of the Greek society and the real economy that is now drowning but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u95	But more than a million?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u96	We don't have one yet. They're small. They're small and I'll give you the overall data. After all, you know that out of the hundred and fifty one who have given the total of the arrangement - expressly, it was only six more than one million. He's not a known or known company, at least to me. There is only a well-known association of municipalities and communities, which has fully repaid a Supermarket association. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u97	Madam Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u98	Yes, Mr. President. From that point on, we had seventy-five thousand people insured, half of whom took part in the express declaration, who gave up to 100 euros. That is what I think it says about the situation in which the Greek society is today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u99	May I ask the Ministers, the very important things they say in answer, to practice their words in a much less time. That's my request. I think I am also justified by the honourable Member's request for this remark.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u100	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u101	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance have submitted to the House a draft law titled “Definition of 20 April 2015 Act of Legislative Content “Accessive regulation for the transfer of cash of General Government Entities to be invested in the Bank of Greece”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We continue with the fifth under the number 92-14/2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Second Piraeus Region, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the list of debtors (natural and legal persons) of the Greek State and the collection of the debts in question. I hope that Mrs Valvain will respond to the standards we have just said. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. In the struggle that we are all giving for the State's revenue in relation to the State's obligations, as we have received for two and a half months, I will very soon mention Mr Muzakiti's statements at NERIT for eighteen grand-in-laws who owe 58 billion in the public and older statements for four thousand fifty-five natural persons with arrears of EUR 14.8 billion in debts. Also in 2011 another list from the Ministry of Finance raised an issue for six thousand businesses, legal persons, with debts of more than EUR 150,000, with a total debt of EUR 30 billion overdue. The question is simple: we want to help the government, to bring the lists - if we can legally, I do not know the procedure - in public, to collect them as soon as possible. To behave as a business, I would now say, and not as a bureaucratic state, that we should call on people as soon as possible so that we can negotiate with them and find out who the natural persons owe us more than EUR 150,000, who the legal persons owe us more than EUR 150,000 and what they are intolerable. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Because I had heard an old statement from Mr Stournara, who was talking about unacceptably debts to banks in particular - it is not today's debate, but I am simply saying it - of EUR 23 billion, without any control being carried out. I mean, we lost these sea loans, black loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u104	I hope we get some time from the previous question, where I actually misused time. The President was right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u105	Mr Balafas told me to brief you, because you have exceeded your time, he says, whenever you have answered. But you will, of course, have tolerance. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u106	I'll tell you the statistics, which are currently in force, the latter. Over EUR 150,000 public debt owes a total of ten and a half thousand natural persons and thirteen thousand legal persons. Overall, that is, twenty-three and a half thousand debtors. Natural persons owe 20 billion and legal persons owe 47.5 billion. In total, of course, and legal persons who owe more than EUR 150,000, they owe this glossy actually amount of EUR 67.5 billion, of which EUR 77 million overdue, of which 2.2 are the regulated ones. The rest is all unregulated and we hope to catch, if we can, with the current extremely favourable regulation, a large part of this massive sum of EUR 75 billion of outstanding debts. Who are the unacceptable debtors? Unacceptable debtors don't think they serve us particularly as a category. It is a process of tax control that lasts years for everyone, i.e. real estate offices, it is not just banks that are everything, and at a time like this to see that there is really nothing. They are people or legal persons from whom it is absolutely impossible to collect anything and who have entered a regime for ten years not only for non-registration but also for the record of hostage, because they are not granted any certificate for anything. In other words, they are people or legal persons completely destroyed. These are, for so many, everyone and everyone has been made possible to date, until March 2015, to complete this thorough inspection - just a hundred and thirty-two natural persons and only forty-three legal persons who owe a total of EUR 2.3 billion to the total of EUR 67.5 billion in this category. That is why I say that we cannot go as a debt criterion in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kammenos has the floor for the dentistry for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u108	I'll be very brief. Thank you very much to the Minister. It was very important that we should have been provided with information. The indicators show that there is a very small rate of regulation in relation to outstanding debts, i.e. 2.2 to 77, and that there are 75. I would like you not to have a philosophical debate between us, but to tell us practically - if you can today, without committing yourself, but because the Greek people are listening to us - what we will do and what is the best way, beyond the 'combined 100 doses' we have done, what else we could do as a government, so that we can bring as many revenues as we can from these seventy-five that have not even been regulated. I would also like you to tell us whether they are companies that are legally fleeing, using legal means of delaying the courts, whether we can speed up the legal proceedings or other conciliation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u109	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u110	I have to say to you - because I have not mentioned in my prototype - that since 2013, when it has been possible to make the names of natural and legal persons public for debts of more than EUR 150 000 and there has even been a relevant list on the Internet, because a series of regulations has been followed, no such names have been given to publicity again. We are not going to take the one hundred-dollar story, of which we have very high expectations, forced collection measures other than those already taken and in force before we enter the regulation. A package of measures is being prepared for those who do not respond, but which will start to apply after the end of the arrangement. I must also tell you that, for example, by asking me to see today's list, there are dozens of municipalities, there are dozens of football clubs, they are TECs, they are mutually beneficial and non-profit-making institutions, they are about sixty shipping companies, they are about two hundred industries, and they are hundreds of commercial services, since, in any case, the names of people are not telling me anything - at least me - and they did not come to any conclusion from them. I will say again that there is clearly an important problem which has many parameters. I think, however, that it will not help us to have this debate now. It is a good thing to repeat it after the completion and the balance sheet of the regulation when things have to go on and on their way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Minister. The first question will be preceded by the number 102/15-4-2015 of the new Republic MP, Eleftherios Aygeakis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the necessary interventions at Heraklion Airport "Nikos Kazantzakis" and the question of Ms Manolakos to Mr Dritsa will be followed. Mr. Aygeakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your facilitation. I would also like to thank those colleagues who have allowed my question to be preceded. Minister, we are discussing a very important issue today. It concerns the situation in which Heraklion Airport "Nikos Kazantzakis", the main airport of Crete and the second in arrivals throughout Greece, has reached its own image, but mainly in terms of its safety and functionality. We had a meeting on Saturday morning. Here were most of the MPs, the airport manager, employee representatives and many representatives from the tourism sector. I will give you some information which has been discussed and I would like your reply. Minister, it is important that the airport "Nikos Kazantzakis" should not collapse, where in the past five years there has been absolutely no substantial upgrading, making it saturated and qualitatively problematic, and the responsibilities are borne by all, zero, not you, of course, that you are a few weeks Minister. The problems currently facing us are, first of all, outstanding material invoices, business 2014 and not even EUR 1 in the last three - four months. The adoption of appropriations for 2015 has not been completed. We have a very serious lack of police force from the planned police force at the state airport. We also have a lack of staff in the PSC, namely air traffic controllers, and here remains a process of recruitment from the PSC, which has been stuck and planted and we expect it to develop. The ongoing tender for a contractor security control company has not been completed and there has been no provision for the extension of the current contract - and this is your responsibility - to amend the remaining luggage carrying straps by transferring the luggage control to the basement with the immediate approval and the tendering of a technical proposal from Heraklion State airport, a budget of EUR 290,000. Aircraft parking positions shall be increased by at least six to seven with an extension of space with respect to 126 Battle Unit. Today there are twenty-three seats, and here is the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence. Of course, the airport presents a serious problem in the exterior parking areas of bus passengers, which is a matter for the Region of Crete, the Municipality of Heraklion and for you personally. I want to report one more. The airport cannot meet without an extension of the needs of traffic for the next six or seven years, Mr President, we hope to have the same and even more tourism. That is why I consider your own initiative to be extremely important. And it is extremely important to see the immediate and medium-term problems. There has been no 1 euro, as I have said before, in the last three - four months and despite this, the tourist season has begun, the charterers have begun to arrive to Heraklion and today, if the airport operates, it works because of the worker's honesty, but also because of the constant offer from people of tourism. I would ask you very much to have your own specific, clear answers to these problems which I have given you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Ignace, thank you. The Deputy Minister, Christos Spirtzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ausgeakis, I will answer you on the basis of what the Civil Aviation Service has said to me. I would also like to inform you that the administration of the Civil Aviation Service has not yet changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u115	That doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u116	As of 2014, seven new civil aircraft parks have been assigned to an area of 126 Battle Brigades. Therefore, the State airport of Heraklion now has twenty-four parking places for large passenger aircraft and four for smaller aircraft. Secondly, with regard to policing, I would like to say that the Civil Aviation Agency has identified the problem. It is mainly due to the lack of test police officers and has taken the necessary steps to the Chief of Greek Police to provide sufficient staff for the police force at the state airport at least during the summer season. With regard to the luggage control area, I would like to say that the Civil Aviation Service is preparing a technical study and specifications for the transport of radio-station equipment to the substation so that the situation can be effectively addressed until the installation of a centralised baggage control system is completed, according to an existing technical study. As far as they inform me, the study of the project "Eastern extension of the airport to the KAOK", which is being prepared by the Port Authority of Heraklion with its own scholars, is under way. In this part of the extension, a total area of about two hundred square metres at two levels, passengers from cruise ships will be served as a priority and the construction of the project will then be followed by the construction of the project by the PSC. Also, I would like to say that in relation to the development of new facilities and the environment of Heraklion Airports, the concession of the corresponding spaces from the GAEC to the Ministry of Defence has been written. That is the answer and the information given to us by the Civil Aviation Service. Also, I can see that the Heraklion Airport Infrastructures Directorate has a corresponding answer, informing us that the tendering of any project is a prerequisite for the preparation and completion of the final study on the extension of buildings and the remodeling of space, the amendment and approval of a general urban plan, as well as the adoption of an amendment to environmental conditions. Therefore, as you can see, and money was available from the public investment programme, which is not there, we have not found such money that has been committed to guidance on the upgrading of Heraklion airport, could not have been auctioned since there was no maturity in this project. There are no studies necessary, there are not all those elements that could be auctioned and started. So nothing has changed since the previous questions you have asked in previous governments. It was time, after all, that he did not allow it. We have met the Director of Crete, the issue has been raised first and we believe that in May we will meet with the other actors in Crete, so that we can see how we will launch the upgrading of Heraklion airport.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Aggenakis has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u118	Minister, your answer scared me. And it frightened me because you responded as Head of Service of your Ministry - without wanting to underestimate the heads of civil servants - and not as a responsible political leader, who is responsible for overseeing you in this area. And I say that, why? Because, first of all, if it were a matter of priority, as you say, you would have been very much informed of what you have read to us just before, and indeed of poorly reading, because this information is inaccurate. First of all, in order for there to be parking spaces, we need to renew the concession, the rent with the Ministry of National Defence, and this has not been done. Breeding extension. I inform you that the study has been completed and money is being sought. There's one more thing. What does it mean that the PSC administration has not changed? Does that mean that automatically you can justify the state not continuing to operate? So change or work. The state has constantly started tourism and you claim to me that the administration of the PSC has not changed. In other words, tell the tourists,'wait for us to change our administration, then we will solve the basic, absolutely necessary problems to have a safe airport'. I said this: I said about immediate and medium-term. For the immediate, Minister, I have this to note: last year, 6,134,386 citizens were moved. We had revenues, that is, over 65 to 70 million at Kazantzakis Airport. The revenues, the money needed for the operational needs - note it - is only revenues of three days in a full season. You understand why we're talking. And you're telling me, you know, no studies, no money, so we're fine, the problem is under the rug, and it's okay. Listen, Minister. Now the lies are over, you're government, which means that apart from generalizing, you have to rule. And you must rule means what? That you have responsibilities, that you have supervisors, subordinates, that you have people with whom you need to cooperate, well - bad, you don't like it, they don't like it, they don't like it, you need to work. Otherwise, tell the tourists "do not come, because you cause us damage and stress that you beat so many people and we don't know what to do with you"! One more thing. I said at the outset that there are responsibilities for all of us. Minister, this problem goes beyond party lines. He's over the party shades. If tomorrow, the non-sex, anything happens, are you covered by this answer you gave me? I'm sure not. That is why we hope and hope, first of all, for this fairness, this fate and the consistency that has so far shown the old machines. I also referred to equipment, not just the buildings that you focused on. One more word, since you are waiting in May for a meeting. Minister, tomorrow morning I invite you, with the Mayor of Heraklion and any other colleagues from Heraklion want to be found to discuss the airport "Nikos Kazantzakis". So I invite you to a meeting that will take place this afternoon, and there I hope, hope and expect, to be truly informed and to take the responsibility of the second largest airport in Greece on arrivals. Watch out, not in size, not in facilities, not in budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u119	Minister, this is an important point, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u120	Yes, Mr President, it is very important. I don't know if I scared you, but what you told us to say in front of the mirror would be good. You said in your first speech that it is the responsibility of all of us, but not ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u121	And in my dentistry, I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u122	It is obvious that all Greek people know that, and Crete knows that. Good. You have questioned the evidence and said that we have not changed the administration yet. So you're questioning the data of the administration you put in. You're making self-criticism. It's not the old government over here, it's someone else. If you want, go to your party offices, tell those who were supervising the PSC and who have defined the particular administration they gave, give and I don't know whether they will in future give the information you denounced as fake and fake and call them. So don't tell us that the elements of the services we've been supervising the agencies, the administrations you have designated, are false. Secondly, invitations should or should you have done that three months ago when the Ministry of Development was not Mr. Stratakis were others. Now other invitations are made and others will deal with this issue. We will be committed to the institutions of Crete and the people of Crete. We will be on top of both the airport and the other projects. Two days ago we were in committee. It was you, too. Same thing we were talking about. Wasn't that what we were talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u123	I'll see you around. What's the result? Tourism runs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u124	Look, the privilege of "Ministers Houdini" you had it, to solve it with a magic wand. These problems also take time, they want work, they want money. This will allow us time to prove it and others will judge it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Minister. We enter the discussion of the fourth under No 96/15-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus, of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the payment of the wages paid to seafarers. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Although shipowners’ profitability is high, the unpaid work of seafarers and the expensive tickets to passengers is a scourge. You know it and it can't go anymore. When workers have to pay six months, some and a year or others take against, really how can their families live or how can they pay their taxes? "NEL" and other ferry companies do not pay the wages to seafarers and about five hundred seafarers have more than six months to pay, the ships of the company are immovable - under the responsibility of the company - and of course there are problems in ferry transport. Fair, therefore, are the complaints from both PEMEN, STEFENSON, PIRAMAGEN, but also from the mass operators of the islands, who cannot be served especially in the north-eastern Aegean, the islands of Limnos, Ai Stratis, Ikaria, Samos, Fournos, etc. They are almost isolated, while the duration of a journey, for example, with "MYKONOS" exceeds twenty-two hours. That is to say, the problems are many and great and are exacerbated by the oversized and subsistent coastal ships - more than thirty years old - with frequent damage, delays - intentional or not, to say that - but also with great risks to the protection of human life at sea. However, while all this is happening provokingly, at the same time you are subsidising with their state budget shipowners, without any commitment to their obligations to seafarers. Long-term experience shows and confirms that, as long as ships are in the hands of shipowners, both the growth of the economy and shipping has a profit and not the needs of seafarers, passengers and islanders, and these problems will be exacerbated. We ask the questions, because we ask for solutions from you: Firstly, to contribute to the immediate payment of the wages paid to all seafarers and to the application of collective agreements. Secondly, there is no reduction in organic positions, because they reduce labour rights, but human life is not protected at sea. Thirdly, to ensure modern, safe, cheap, coastal transport, regular connections between the islands and the mainland throughout the year and, of course, a reduction in tickets, because it is very scoopy, by 50% - and do not consider it excessive when wages and pensions have been cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Dritsas, has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I shall almost entirely agree that the issues and problems you raise in your question are indeed and are indeed and seriously and seriously and topical, but I will not agree with the aim shown by your question, with regard to the responsibilities or the charges you are addressing us indirectly or directly. Of course, the problem isn't there. The problem is how to resolve these issues. Because apart from time to time - you know very well - all these problems are tragic and we have received them. I would refer you not to any other description, but to the programming statements I made from this Step for the shipping sector by the Government and the delivery ceremony to the Ministry, also a few days before the programming declarations. The first thing I said was that it is incomprehensible to continue the issue of unpaid sea work and seafarers' unemployment at the same time. It was not a question - and I knew it very well - and I and the government - of the absolute competence of our Ministry in the sense that unpaid maritime work is about businesses and workers. This was indeed the encouragement of my predecessor, Mr Varvitsiotis, to resolve these issues in the courts because they are a civil dispute. I, too, said no, because a left-wing government cannot accept that there can be unpaid maritime work, as well as unpaid work in general or even uninsured work. There begins an effort, which has already been recorded and of course continues. This is an attempt at pressure on companies, an attempt to search for legal instruments which do not exist to commit at least the sums granted by the Ministry through the subsidised route process, an attempt at new legislation, which is in the process of consultation with the Pan-Hellenic Navy and with all the unions that you have mentioned, and with many others, as well as with the Vessel Union. It is a democratic process which is at the end of the day, precisely in order to strengthen the legal arsenal, in order to guarantee the ability of seafarers to collect their money. And of course, we are moving towards not just the pressure on companies, but also the taking of a series of initiatives, because the system you know is now very complicated. We no longer have the phenomenon of shipowners and shipowners of the past, where they usually were entrepreneurs, but they were very strong with the sea. Now, we have banks and many others involved. We almost got bank owners. You can understand that this is becoming even more complicated. I would like to tell you that the collective agreements which, in many cases, are not being complied with and the regular connection between the islands and mainland Greece are on a lasting basis and employ almost 70% to 80% of the time of the Ministry and the Minister's office, the overall effort we have so far for shipping. I also assure you that the link between the operations of the ferry, the first meeting we had, when I set them up and there, were committed until Easter to normalise the situation as far as the members of the association were concerned. This has not happened until now. One company, to which you referred, is indeed a company which not only fulfils its contractual obligations towards workers but also the contractual obligations to carry out the services. The process is open. But be careful. These things aren't just. For the Ministry and for me it is very easy for me to act rigorously too many procedures. But when these procedures are under way it means that the already reduced fleet is reduced or when workers are permanently unemployed, then these issues must be considered globally and should be dealt with in the light of the seriousness of them. And that's exactly what we do. I'm going to say a few more things in my dentistry. However, I would like to assure you, Madam President, that issues which characterise at least ten or twenty years - and in their most acute phase in the last five years - shipping and maritime work are issues that want no time, but a system, a method and very careful steps to be taken to ensure incision and continuity. Because, otherwise, you might be going to do something really good and create huge problems. I'm finishing by giving you some information to understand. The roadmap for 2016-2016-not for 2015- has already started, under the law, since November 2014. We received his first department in February already finished. So that's easy to reverse? I am therefore addressing both the islanders and you and the workers, and I tell you that there is a need for synergy. There we have announced our intention, our decision and our preparation, of putting forward a proposal and of launching a wide-ranging dialogue between local societies, chambers of commerce, passengers, workers and shipowners on the serious and radical reform of the maritime system and the institutional framework of maritime shipping. We are moving in this direction. This approach cannot be characterised by the words ‘finance the shipowners’. When this is addressed to us, Mrs Manolakou, it is completely unfounded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u130	Minister, government measures to gather the rags of the previous government got. We have already heard Mrs Valavane say how much she has gathered. But it was fun. The world is pressing and cutting off of basic needs! Here, what are we asking you for? We ask you to take steps to get the people who worked. In other words, we ask for the self-evident right to be paid for as long as the shipowners are subsidised. And the question of subsidies goes on to do so too. Do not complain, then, that you are told that you are continuing the same policy. Because, of course, you have received the problems, but you have not changed the situation. What's wrong with the shipowners? Duty-free oil, tax exemptions with sousula, super-season ships, expensive tickets, unpaid seamen, unpaid NAT and now you're telling me it's hard to take measures. But these are the offenders, that's what we're asking you to do. NEL, with five hundred unpaid seafarers, has received subsidies - for now we are talking about it, at the last time the previous government started it - of 1.3 million. So why shouldn't he pay the seamen's jobs? And all in all, we have to remember them. Shipowners with crazy profits have so far received a billion euro from the previous governments. Is it a favorable treatment or isn't it? Is it a policy in favour of shipowners and seamen and islanders? It is! Do not complain, then, when you are accused of continuing to do the same. Because in the end, you do not touch the shipowners' sanctuaries and figurines. Three months you have a government. So, what did you answer today to the questions we asked? No commitment has been made that these people have worked and will be paid and nourished their families. At the same time, we are putting another question - which, if you wish, you must answer - that organic positions must not be reduced, because they are also undermining the rights of seamen and safety is being undermined at sea. We say it clearly, and we don't hide it, and if you want it, we'll be confirmed every day. Solution? Yes, there is and is the State Single Transport operator for popular needs and not for the interests or profits of shipowners. Only in this way will we have three hundred and sixty-five days a year and a cheap ticket with public, safe, ferry transport for the needs of seamen and the inhabitants of the islands. There's a solution. So you don't want to follow her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Would you like to add something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u132	Madam President, when the debate is opened - and it will be very soon - on the reform of the institutional framework of the coastline, I believe that you will either present your opinion as a party or representatives of the self-government or maritime unions, with regard to the state's shipping and we will discuss them all. What I can tell you is that the current system, and its logic, can ultimately end up - in fact - by means of the policies of the previous governments, but also of social and economic interrelationship, subsidizing companies, but this subsidy system, in principle, starts with the need to subsidise islands, to subsidise coastlines that are not served by the free lines, and that is what is required by islands as a solution in this context. I believe, too, but we certainly want to give other possibilities. But you know that we have examples and experience of people's base companies. Unfortunately, they failed, were undermined, conflicted with interests, did not rely on a good basis. This experience and the positive one, but the negative one, we must take it into account. Indeed, we need to strengthen the social character of maritime connections, because shipping is a public good. But that requires a plan, it requires solutions, it presupposes funds, it presupposes ships, it requires a society that supports this process, and in this direction we can indeed open up a debate. But changing this and saying 'in three months you did not drive the bad shipowners' I do not think it could be a basis for discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u133	You're subsidising them - I said - and you didn't send them away.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u134	I would like to say to you that precisely unpaid seafaring work has been a problem for years now and in recent years, all those who are unpaid are not a month or three months unpaid, are eight and nine months. As regards these grants from the companies or NEL mentioned, these were subsidies for routes carried out, such as contracts. There's no tool to keep the ministry and give them to the workers. However - and the workers know - we have had incredible pressures and other ways of being able to keep at least 30% in favour of the public - because that was a legislative requirement - not to go elsewhere but to go primarily to the workers. To a certain extent, at least for those accounts, we did it. However, this amount was not sufficient. It was very small in relation to the amount of the company's debts to employees. But that's not what anyone else has tried to do so far. We tried it, and to some extent we did it along with all the other things I told you. I would also like to say to you that from very early - ten, twelve days after the government took office - we have restored an institution that had been abolished over eight to ten years of regular annual controls, where, in view of Easter and summer on all ships, by decision of 10/10 2015, we have to carry out exceptional checks on all ferry ships. I'll submit it to the Minutes. The institution was ten years ago and it had ceased to exist all these years. We've brought him back and we'll keep him and we'll try to upgrade the Ship Inspection Directorate, so that the control can be better. We have already prevented a few incidents that could prove dangerous during boats. This is about security. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Finally, for the organic compositions, I assure you that this is also our concern. We are not ignoring that there are too many developments and not only are there developments in general, but even the lenders, these issues have been raised in the past, they have them as open issues and they are now being kept open, so that the Greek coastline can follow the model in force on Adriatic ships. We have told them that since you reintroduced them, at least one huge event, Normal ATLANTIC, has occurred since you reinstated them, where a large part of the crew were not seafarers, because it was the hotel staff. When it became the shipwreck and the fire, they thought they had nothing to do, because they were not trained and they were one of the first to leave the ship. So we told them to stop such thoughts. Beyond all the others, which are demarcations for us, we need to think about work and safety, and we cannot generally talk about competition without thinking about the essential things. Mrs Manolakou, I assure you that we are a left-wing government. We're fighting in very difficult and unfavourable conditions. It does nothing to help such an opposition practice. The people need to be supported, because along with this government, the workers and all the Greek people are fighting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u136	And the unpaid workers asking for their jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u137	Yes, sir. It's a serious matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the unions of workers at the Medals of Halkidiki, the Association of Scientific Personal Medals of Kassandra "Aristotle", the Association of Manufacturing & Staff Medals of Kassandra "Agia Varvara", the Kassandra Medals Association submitted to Parliament on 17-4-2015 a memorandum and ask for a political solution to their problem of continuing investment in Halkidiki Medals, claiming the right to work and the well-being of their place. This resolution, for the time economy, will be tabled in the minutes of today's sitting under Protocol number 1686-17-2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u138	We enter the debate of the sixth under No 91/1-4-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MEP of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the abuse of the right to cancel the competition for the Patras - Pyrgos motorway. Mr. Koutsouko, please develop this very serious and sensitive subject for our special homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u139	Who's gonna answer? How about you, Mr. President? You're a good man, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u140	Why do you give up on me? Mr. Spirtzis isn't missing, he's here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, as you have rightly pointed out, since we are compatriots, this issue is the number one to develop not only the polypath Ilias but also the western Greece and the Ionian islands. Unfortunately, while we had a competition that ran, with the closing date for submission of tenders on 31-3-2015, the Government, on 26 March 2015, by decision of Mr Stathakis, annulled the tender. I believe that this act of government is criminal for the development of the region. Of course, it is an act that, in my view, is also abusive and illegal, since in order for a tender to take place, as both the relevant Minister and all of us in this Chamber know, and indeed a great work, and for it to be published in the Bulletin of the European Communities, it needs to be documented with a number of provisions, laws, decisions and directives of the European Union. In total, the legislative texts, on the basis of which the Ministry of Transport and Networks launched the project on 7-10-2014 with an open international competition, are more than thirty-five. So all European and national legislation has been respected. On the basis of the approved programme ‘Transport, Environment and Sustainable Development 2014-2020’, which was approved on 18-12-2014, the European Union had consented to the project. There is a code written in the Public Investment Programme with a budget of EUR 475 million. So we believe that this act is criminal against Elijah, illegal and abusive, and will lead us not to have a highway, canceling the struggles we have had over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. The Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Koutsouko, we have been discussing this again at the meeting with the institutions, and I will repeat it again in Parliament's Chamber, so that there will be more information for all of the Greek people as well. As to history, the Patras - Tower Street and, below, Chacona - Good Water, was on the concession of the Olympia road. With the revision of contracts a year and a half ago, natural objects decreased. The natural object that was reduced is from Patras down. So for reasons that you know best to explain to Parliament, it was stated that this work will be done separately. So let's see how the work would be done separately. So, first date, when the contest was to be made, it was on 27-01-2015. It was uploaded on 13 January. And it was uploaded, I imagine, again abusive, as you ask today, and criminally for the project. And a new date was set on 31-03-2015. We have some announcements. We said that for all the competitions we will see the terms, usefulness and everything. Not for this project, but for everything. For this, we are committed to doing so. For what you're asking, let's see a few things, so that we don't have gray zones and there won't be any misinformation from the Greek people. Could the competition be implemented on 31-03-2015? The answer is no. The destructive law that you voted on, n.4281/2014, on 8 August 2014, provided for the existence of an electronic system to carry out competitions. It provided for the adoption of ministerial decisions on the application of the law. It provided for presidential decrees on the application of the law. It was also foreseen that this law would be revised after a year and a half since it was adopted, in order to align ourselves with the new directives that have been adopted. I therefore think - and I do not want to exacerbate the climate within Parliament - that this is a set setting for the new government, a setting that did not allow the country's first months of governance in that government to tender for either a project or a study or a procurement procedure, in addition to the other foundations of the negotiation. And you come and ask us why. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance because it is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u144	But you have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much. Let's go down. The second thing about the competition is to see how the previous competition came out and I'd like in the Minutes to submit a few documents. It says in Article 18 entitled "Studies" - to see how the competitions have also been carried out - the following: "It is noted that the existing technical studies have a different approval status (approved, approved with comments from the Independent Engineer or under approval)". In other words, a competition with studies, which were approved, came out, others had comments from the amazingly new institution of the Independent Engineer concessions and others were generally approved. And there was a regular auction, a regular competition came out. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practices.]] If the competition were to be implemented on 31-03-2015, that is, if the previous government had managed to have an electronic system, to have adopted ministerial decisions, to have made presidential decrees and all those who participated would have to come down, then let's see what the timetable would be, on the basis of these studies, other specific ones subject to approval and others. So the economic offers and the approved studies would be opened - I will also present this to you, so that there will be - much later. The financial offers would be opened at the end of October with the beginning of November, as the decision you quote from September 22, 2014, which says: "We approve the accession to the Public Investment Programme" etc. and that ‘Project 2014 No.07100044 is approved, provided that the competitive process (opening of economic tenders) is not completed before the final adoption of the EU major project dossier’. In order to approve this dossier, i.e. with the new EPA, a committee on the new EPA must be in place, all the necessary procedure for which projects are included and which projects are not included and which need to be approved. I am tabling this document for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practices.]] If, therefore, we had no delay, the economic tenders would be opened at the end of October with the beginning of November. I guess they'd open up a lot later, but now we're talking! In relation to the three questions you have asked the relevant Ministry, the first is. After two months of set-aside, how much longer will it take us to ensure that the work we have called into question is financed? I return the question to you and tell you that the project will normally be included in the ETUC and the way will be done. With regard to the second question, which you do not mention, whether the Ministry will be involved in the battle of "participants", cutting the project with what this entails in economic, technical and timely terms, dear Mr Koutsouko, for us, this battle of the "interest" you mention is not a battle between two companies but is a battle between the large companies and the small and medium-sized companies. It is a battle between the oligarchs of the country and the Greek people. Only by the Ministry and the supervised bodies have contracted projects of 18.5 billion. The technical world of the country should not be sleeping and working. However, we have a technical world under dissolution, which is hungry, which closes companies that go bankrupt, which 65% of engineers do not have to pay for their insurance contributions. And you're asking us if we're gonna get involved? Of course we're gonna get involved. I wish we had those mature small and medium-sized projects that we were going to make, so that small and medium-sized companies could be active and not just six - seven. What would it make sense? On the natural object of the motorway, which was excluded from this motorway and from the rest of the road, should the competition be directed to the six companies with the other motorways, in other words to the same ones? Aren't you interested in the local society of Western Greece working there? Of course, you'll tell me that they can work as subcontractors, with reduced amounts, reduced prices, and so on. This is a good tactic to close some and others to get rich. Finally, with regard to the third question, when, on the basis of our design, the tendering of the project will take place and what will be the timing of its completion, the services have been ordered and processed how the project can be phased out, so that there is a matching of natural objects so that any piece ends being given to citizens for circulation. This work will be ready by the services within the next two or a half months and immediately thereafter, i.e. at the end of June with the beginning of July, will normally take place and there will be no delay, precisely because the economic offers, according to the decision taken by the previous government, can be opened, when the European Commission can be approved as a major project, i.e. around October or November. So there will be no delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Minister. You revealed serious things. The issue is that this road network is one of the most dangerous in the country. In deaths and injuries, the most dangerous thing is after Agrinio Street. In this sense, the project must be restarted. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u147	Unfortunately, Mr President, in his ten-minute position, after your tolerance - and you did well, I have no problem - the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u148	The same will be for you the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u149	He didn't reveal anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u150	It will be just tolerable for you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u151	I'm fine with it. He just used very cheap excuses, which he told us at a meeting that we held at the headquarters of his ministry, except that this meeting took place after the Minister's head of state's decision to cancel the project. In other words, Mr President, with the democratic sensitivity that you are aware of, a world which has been struggling for years to get water to the tap, it was despised by the government and called at a meeting following the cancellation decision. It is very characteristic that the Minister is confusing the postponement with the cancellation. I would like the House to know that on a visit we made to Mr Stathakis - without calling us, by our intervention, namely the mayor and the district manager - we told him that 'to the extent that you want to clarify any elements relating to the tender, the studies, the funding and whatever else you can postpone the tender'. It had the possibility of the law to do so, and it also has the possibility under the same law that the tender has annulled, to declare it barren, if the interests of the public are not served, if the contractors agree, if the discounts to be made do not take place. In no case did he have the right to cancel the project, much more to split it, as Mr Spirtz told us at the meeting we held at the Ministry, in eight to ten contractors. Do you know what will happen, Mr. President? We will have various road tracks and there will be no motorway from the Tower to Patras, because there will be ten legal problems, ten technical problems, ten financial problems. The Minister has several ears of the Ministry but he has to bear in mind, since he is addressed to us, that we are only apologies to our voters. Our voters are the voters of Elias. We have no contractors to apologise, neither large nor small nor medium, nor any interest we serve. I don't know any Elio friend of mine or my voter who'll get the job. I don't know if the Minister knows, since he was president of the Technical Chamber. We want the road. We don't care who executes him. It is the government's responsibility to ensure the public interest and has too many ways to do so. We are much more concerned, since after the struggle we have done to enforce the work as a public task, we have pressed here in this House and managed to make public work - an act for which SYRIZA had agreed as an opposition at that time, because unfortunately the Patras - Tsakos - Tower - was responded after an unfortunate negotiation that Mr Hatzidakis has made - and Mr Chrysochoidis ran the procedures, got approval from the European Union and arrived in the tender. If the auction had problems, if the Minister were good enough, he would have been able to resolve them by law. What he's telling us now is an alibi. In any case, it still has the opportunity to auction it as a single project and to ensure the way in which the interests of the public are served, along with the service of the people of Elias. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Evidently the Patras - Tower road is a path on which we have paid heavy blood tax. Yes, Mr President, it is not the only way. The same is the road Patras - Corinth, for several decades ago. In fact, since he started this great project, we may have been reduced by accidents, but we have Western Greece excluded. I would like to say, therefore, that we are not confusing the postponement at all with the cancellation. Yes, Mr. Kutsuko, the cancellation of semantics shows something. It shows the cancellation of the policy of accumulation of works and wealth to a few, followed in recent years consistently. Secondly, we do not share. Segments make others with the forty-fives. We are making a partial tender of the project and, indeed, in line with the natural object. So if a smaller project comes out of a node node, it'll be taken by a contractor. If she gets older, she'll get another one. However, I have not seen you worry when there is a concessionaire, a scheme, a contractor. Do you not have any concern about how the project has not been completed for more than ten years now and has even decreased the natural object in relation to Patras - Tower? Aren't you worried there? For Olympia, which is still a post-review project - that is, the Corinth - Patras project - and the expropriations are not over, and that is why you are not concerned about this. Aren't you worried if this project ever ends? All you say, as fears, we have suffered them in the great work, the major contractors, the great work, etc. Finally, where are the inaccuracies? Has the big project file been fixed and has been filed by the previous government and we do not know it? It says the paper "when approved as a major project". When! God put his hand on it, that is! By who? When? How long does it take to make this accession? I imagine that after so many years of experience, you have understood what a project would mean without approved funding. It means that this financing of the project is virtual. When, whenever and when. We therefore believe, Mr President, - and this is a commitment - that the work will be done and addressed to the citizens. And citizens are nothing intact. Citizens have a specific job. Another is an engineer, another is a craftsman, another is a dealer. And the whole of our society is neither big-workers nor large-scale manufacturers nor medietors. And these small- and medium-sized ones want to have a job and they don't have all these years. And we will obviously serve this policy through projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kutsuko, the project will be done. And now we enter the second question with number 95-14-2015 of a second question by MP II Piraeus of Potamio Mr Nikolaos Orphanou to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the trial of Golden Dawn on 20 April in Korydallos prisons. Mr. Orphanou's timely question will be answered by the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Aristides Baltas. Mr. Orphane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this morning the trial of Golden Dawn officials began in the courtroom. As was certainly expected, the city of Korydallos paralyzed today. The mobilisation of the agencies was huge. Anti-fascist associations, labor unions, parents' and guardians' associations, together the Municipality of Korydallos demonstrated, in the presence of a strong police force, of course, against conducting the trial at that location. Of course, the schools today remained closed. The incidents, although of a small scale, as anticipated, were not missing. Unfortunately, I can also confirm this in person, as black-dressed hooligans with my arms have been stumbled, I have been spit on face to face by repeating the usual malignancies that are systematically reproduced at the expense of the River - unfortunately also from members of your party and the co-government. Fortunately the people from the Municipality of Korydallos and the citizens reacted effectively before the incident took uncontrolled proportions. As I mention in the text of the question, the place where the trial is conducted is at a time of breath from eleven total educational units and two examination centres. Minister, it is clear that such an explosive situation will disrupt the calmness of children, the conduct of the pan-Hellenic examinations and the access of children to the two examination centres. Today schools have not only worked because the Mayor Mr. Kasimatis has shared, but because it was practically impossible for a parent - since 65% of the students of the city of Korydallos are studying in these school complexes - to approach the area. It is of course unnecessary to say that this concern is shared by all the citizens of the city. The trial was postponed today on May 7th, that is, on a date even closer to the pan-Hellenic. This, of course, did not allow the mayor's request to be examined, as well as the institutions. We have already heard the Minister responsible speak of a procedural involvement in the question of changing the place of activity. But after all these things, Minister, I would like to ask you: why did the government - despite the fact that we have heard you personally, but also your fellow Members agree with the people's request for a change of place - has it not and has it not finally done any real work in this direction? Most of all, however, we would like you to tell us how you intend to guarantee the safe access of the people involved, of course, to the trial and the protesting citizens - that is more relevant to your colleague Mr Voutsis - so that the social peace of the city is not disturbed. I would also like to ask whether the Ministry of Education has drawn up a plan on your part to ensure that students do not have a smooth access to their schools and that they are uninterrupted. However, in the event that hours are lost - as the relevant bodies and we are afraid - how will the government ensure that these hours are replaced, especially for those students who are going to give full-scale examinations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Orphane, thank you. The Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Baltas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u157	Thank you for the question, because it is a question that keeps us alert. As far as our Ministry is concerned, I would like to say that we have already sent a press release, in connection with a previous question of your own, asking those responsible to transfer the premises of the trial. The press release was dated 1 April, but it wasn't pro-April, we meant it. From that point on, if the authorities insist that the trial be conducted there, we have already taken all necessary steps, in consultation with the Education Department of Piraeus, in order to transfer the lessons and examinations - even if examinations are done there - to buildings that we have already found and are ready for such work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Orphane, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u159	I am very pleased to hear your reply, Minister, because of course the turbulence in the school process will not stop. I hope there will be no involvement in finding out where his child is to be examined. Unfortunately, I regret to say that it is no longer possible to change the place of the trial. Of course I do not charge it to you personally, I understand the point of order. Once again, the city of Korydalos suffers the constant disruption of social peace by the operation of the penitentiary shop. I would also like to address your colleague, Mr Voutsi, to see a project to remove this complex at some point. I want to believe that there will be a good move with the decongestion of prisons, after the recent bill has been passed, but that is not enough. And of course the continuation of the trial in this same room will disrupt the next school year. The trial is scheduled to last for over a year, perhaps two years, and every three years, you will probably be called - probably - to ensure, whenever necessary, that the children are transported from here and there while we could have solved it. I hope that everything will go well in your procedural care. I am pleased to hear you being vigilant about this, because we will also be there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Orphane. Does the Minister wish to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u161	I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. The third question, with number 93/44/2015, will now be discussed. Second question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Mavraanis, to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the installation of illegal tolls on the "A11" Schema - Chalkidous motorway. The Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Here, Mr Mavragans, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, there is this issue here - I am saying this for a very long time, if this matter can concern us with a whole session. ‘A11’ is a motorway built by Greek public and European Community money until 2008 and delivered to use. I use him and the rest of the euphorics and settlements to go to Chalkida and from there all over the rest of Evia. On the basis of European legislation, and in particular two European directives, in 2006/38/EC and 1999/62/EC, which are mandatory for the Member States, it was denounced by me and two and a half thousand other signatories that it cannot recover the construction costs the concessionaire and see, at least, a gift for Ionia to move a toll fee from there to another region. Therefore, it cannot be established by the concessionaire there tolls to restore construction costs that it never paid. I would like to point out that, in accordance with the abovementioned directives, a Member State of the European Community is forbidden to impose tolls where it collects - and collects for the whole territory, of course, and it is another matter that we must open it at some point in other economic circumstances - and also collect tolls other than tunnels and bridges. The Bridge of Chalkida has been prepared since 1992, without any fees and has nothing to do with this project. On the other hand, toll charges cannot be imposed on local owners, such as the citizens of Chalkida. I would also like to point out that, in accordance with the above directives and the case-law of the Court of Justice, any fee imposed on tolls cannot be transferred to another area. I am going to tell you this - and I am closing down in my prototype - that after this complaint signed by two and a half thousand fellow citizens, curiously how the concessionaire started to do allegedly works in the direction of coating a carpet that was not necessary, it was supposed to be maintenance. I will tell you that if you impose toll charges or the contributor for maintenance, you are obliged to post a table on how long maintenance is per year. That has not been done either. This facility is therefore completely illegal. I ask the Minister, please, what the Greek state intends to do in this direction. I would point out that these principles which I have mentioned are mandatory to the state, which must be excluded - I read exactly from the case law of the ECJ, I have four judgments, I could find more of the ECJ - from any action either legislative initiative or from other administrative acts in the direction of breaching these directives. I would ask you to protect the Euboeans from the economic deindustrial deindustrialisation, which, in any case, have been economically fragmented by further sloganing by increasing the cost of transporting residentials or the eucalysts themselves to Evia by imposing these tolls.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. Here, Minister, you have the floor. What do you say to the honourable Member?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, Mr Mavragani, first of all let us say that the eubolic people are very lucky that the government has changed, because if we continued to do so, they would also grant the old Bridge of Chalkida, not just the new one and they would have tolls.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u166	That's for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u167	I shall table, in order not to bore this House, Mr President, the official replies of the agency so that Members can also be informed. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents the above-mentioned replies to the minutes, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practices.]] I would just like to give you an opportunity to inform you in which direction we will move. Despite European legislation - and this is not the first time, it can find some elements that will be combatable in relation to concessions contracts - the country is, unfortunately, bound to these conventions. In the opinion of the previous government, we believe it is ours. So we think that we should go to another kind of logic for projects and, above all, for society. The same you complain about this road and the bridge to Chalkida applies to the entire highway from Athens to Alice and later to parts of the Malaysian bypass. In other words, it is done as a public work and then granted and tolled for the use of some concessionaires as revenues and to finance the motorways, the five projects of 'current' concessions. What have these conventions achieved since they entered? They've succeeded in having a country blocked. You know them very well. The toll level, after the review, is regulated by this type at the beginning of each year only by the concession companies and does not interfere with the Greek State. The highways which take place as public works when they are completed are automatically given again do not interfere with the Ministry and are tolled by the concessionaires and all the rest of the responsibility lies with the independent engineer, Mr President. These are amazing contracts. So what's the matter? To end the vicious cycle: Increase toll, reduce the transport load on the roads and as a consequence increase the tolls again. So our objective is without jeopardising the existing conventions, having the public interest as a criterion - and I say this in order not to be called upon to pay great clauses that are provided for and also to have other adverse consequences - to enter into negotiations - and this work we are doing at this time - with concessionaires in order to achieve five - six objectives which, in my opinion, are concrete but also to dismantle the Greek society and the projects from this deadlock that have entered into. More specifically, the first objective is to have a single, hybrid analogue, electronic toll system on all the highways in the country, so that the system is fairer. The second is to have a toll reduction. The third is to get some principles and indicators into the types of tolls defined so that we do not have this ignorance and the development factors and society as well. The fourth is to have free tolls for specific groups, such as people with disabilities. Fifthly, there are no tolls on the edge of a municipality. You know there are municipalities that have five, six, seven toll stations in their geographical unit, and that's a madness. So there should be some free or very low price crossings a month. This is a negotiation we are currently collecting data so that we can go to a negotiating table with the concessionaires, reliable and technically documented, so that it can be done. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Minister. It is a big and social issue. The Left Government has to see it. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not know who has told you that you will pay criminal clauses if the others, the contractors are violating European legislation and if the previous administration, for which we of course have no responsibility - although the state has all the time - violated European legislation to sign this convention. Because I am pleased to hear the general attitude of the Ministry and, of course, the national government to give special attention to to tolls, but the particular tolls that want to be placed there have a peculiarity: the concessionaire did not put a single euro! Secondly, at that point where they are placed, the concessionaire will never do anything. On the contrary, it has other work that it has undertaken in an irrelevant local area, where it will clearly transfer the funds it receives from another area. And that violates Article 5(7), subparagraph The 2006/38. So who told you that the Greek State will pay criminal clauses? As a result, here at least in this part of the contract, which concerns the tolls of Shadow-Chalkida, we need to take special care. I repeat: it has a special symbolism because it is possible to blame and it is certainly the previous ones who are accused that this convention was suspected of being a gift to the contractors for another place. So while I've done a project here, I'm giving it ready, get it out of here, because a lot of people are going to Evia and they're close, get along. We cannot allow that. I tell you that the eubolic people will be across - know it - even half of the euro to enter! It's not a question. If these tolls were to be put by the Greek State only for the use and maintenance, with an annual cost-to-cost table, we would discuss it. But there's something else going on here. You should know, Minister, that we will be against this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. He has knowledge and noble passion. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u171	Mr Mavragani, you know that the conventions have also been adopted by European institutions, in breach of European law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u172	They've badly approved them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u173	I say this in order to answer what you have asked, namely how we will pay clauses when we have contracts. We'll pay clauses. The judicial appeal of anyone, even of the country, against this is another story. We're tied up by the conventions. I mean, it's not the only case. The project "Athens-Aliki" was also done with state money. Some time ago - and even some "folk wellers" wanted to charge it to the government - became the same as part of the work in Fthiotida. The same applies to the "Athens-Korinthos" project. And that's what's been given. This is not the only area where this crime has been committed. I understand your wrath and the wrath of all of us, that parts of the motorway have been given with the money of the Greek people and at the moment the revenues are going elsewhere. I would remind you that it was planned for Egnatia. For privatization a few months ago, they said, and even with an equivalent system. I would therefore like to say this and this is a commitment. If the procedures and negotiations do not end - which I believe will start next month - you and the citizens' movements which have been resisting such agreements for many years. We need a little credit, because I have the feeling that we're probably going well, not for any other reason: they don't care about society so much but they're really the works in a dead end with the chosen system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Minister. You're being released for today. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of visits from beautiful Thessaloniki. I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending our meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty students and students and four teachers from the 29th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. We welcome you. We wish you good progress, health and fight for the good of our country. Be well! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are entering the development of the last for today's topical question. It is the fourth under number 98/154-2015 second cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliamentary of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the worrying increase in incoming immigrants. The Minister will answer Mr. Nikolaos Voutsi. Mr. Kremastino, you have the floor, please, to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. When I wrote this question a few days ago, I didn't think that today we would have this sad event in Rhodes. The question concerns the alarming increase in the number of immigrants or refugees entering the country. The worrying growth in immigrants is also damaging our tourism. Today's first news on all international networks is that almost within the city of Rhodes three people drowned in a slave ship left by slave traders in his luck. It was carried away by waves and instead of taking it to the sandy beach, they took it to the shore, so a child drowned today. These numbers will increase. The European Union, which is mainly defending us, Italy and Spain from entering migrants, must bear in mind that the numbers have increased. The figures have increased, Mr President, because as you know, the attempts to overthrow from strong governments in Iraq, Libya and the efforts in Syria have brought these events. And these governments are responsible, if anything, for the collateral losses and they will have to pay. They cannot pay the poor states of the South and especially Greece, which is bankrupt. So you realise that this is a major issue and my question is of particular importance because I ask what measures the Government will be proposing through the competent Commissioner in the European Union, not just to solve the problem - which will be the right one - but, above all, to have a stir or analogous measures, in particular, what is the protection and support of the islands of the Aegean islands located in the border region facing problems of poor or non-existent means and infrastructure on a daily basis. Please, therefore, the Minister must inform us and inform the House where we are going at this stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Kremastein. The Minister now has the floor, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, Mr Kremastinos, you are indeed giving us the opportunity to make a specific position - overall - on this issue. I would like to tell you that in these days there are many meetings and discussions within the country - several of them are not announced - inter-ministerial discussions and with the presence of the Prime Minister before a week and between all the representatives of the port authorities, with factors from all sides and from all the ministries that have been in consultation and in discussion with the Committee of the Regions and the Central Association of Municipalities, and I mean a national plan to deal with, absorption - if you want - with a very critical issue that you have raised, too. I would like to say that I regret that the Civic Opposition of the country over the last few days, even today when we had these dramatic news, the shipwrecks for hundreds of dead in the Mediterranean, instead of beating on the problem and seeing its dimension, namely that it has a European dimension and a major character, is engaged in small-scale controversy on an endless political blindness at the limits of political cynicism. We have said that it is not SYRIZA's policy that encouraged this wave to exist today of refugees, as the Qualified Opposition says. Because this wave, as you have seen, is too much digging over Italy, on Spain, on all countries. The wars, as you quite rightly said, up to the climate phenomena in modern times and civil and external interference, create this situation which is dramatic and can evolve for everyone, both for these populations and for Europe, the biggest problem, perhaps, of our time. We are talking about some millions already in the sense of potential refugees who are in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and, at the same time, the unfortunate ending of the so-called 'Spring' in Libya and the sub-Saharan region, we also have some million. We have seen with interest that European leaders, as they try to wake up or show that they are awakening, using the notion, "they come from slave trade, they are the slave traders who bring them. If we hit the slave trade, there will be no such flows." Excuse me, but all these thousands of people know that three and a half thousand were only the dead in the Mediterranean in 2014 and yet they take their children because they do not want to live there, they cannot live in those countries from which they come and risk becoming the new victims. They also know about the new victims, and yet they enter slave ships. So don't watch the finger. And you, you're a man, who has a broadness and a horizon very big. We had victims in Rhodes, too. We have made great efforts in the northern and southern Aegean. If you see the numbers '13 to '14, '14 to '15, it's a growth course, because of the situation in Syria. Now, however, the course within 2015 is more growth. We had in the northern Aegean a number of spaces that could become the first centres, where for two or three days the health measures are recorded, and then they are pushed towards the mainland, where the measures are different. Some of these have been announced by making a great effort on the crucial issue you have said and the tourist and social fabric on these islands do not remain several days nor remain in town centers. For the southern Aegean, there was no such infrastructure at all. Nevertheless, island to island - and we have done this examination, I tell you, through many conferences - the infrastructures are slowly forming, so that it can be the bridge over the mainland. We will take measures even for a special ship, which will pass through all these islands in very few days to take this world. In any case, and with the increase in the capacity of the port and the other forces that can operate preventively and deterrently in no way - and that is not the morality of our own forces to operate - at the risk of the lives of people on board, but who can operate in such a way that it becomes more difficult for slaves to take the world and in that direction we must take measures. It takes enough money to do this. I think Mr. Avramopoulos has also started a consultation. They have just finished the extraordinary meeting of Ministers in Luxembourg, where we were represented by the Minister responsible, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, on immigration. It will bring all the conclusions and the Commissioner himself will come at the end of the week, since he goes from Spain and from Italy, and we will jointly form the final national plan to address this critical situation with assistance and synergies and assistance from the European Union in order to respond to the issues which you have raised on the occasion and focused on Rhodes. In conclusion, however, I would like to say what we said three years ago. Unfortunately, Professor Koutsukouko, I will say that he is not listening. You know very well who I am talking about, which wings of this House. It is a pan-European issue. This issue of migration flows comes from the future. It is not a matter that you can end, end it with some measures or put on various walls of different kinds and concerns all the European countries, which the countries of the south and, in particular, our homeland - which is the most crucial geopolitical sign of Europe and the European Union - to make stores of souls and people who, in circumstances of economic crisis, have succeeded both for themselves and for the social fabric. Our line was clear, we have said it three years ago, we have repeated it fifteen times, and the Prime Minister himself said it in the programme statements: responsibilities, responsibility-sharing through transnational pan-European agreements far beyond hypocritical Dublin I, II, III and far beyond the charges and commitments of Schengen. A new strategic agreement, in which countries depending on their economic and social situation and I want those who want to go there and the working conditions, can at every stage take on the 'load' - put it in introductory form because we are talking about people - which is what they are dealing with. This must be done clearly, transparently, with papers, with health records, with humanism, with solidarity and, of course, with the avoidance of safety issues in relation to the latest asymmetrical threats. That was the strategy. Instead, for three years we have heard many incredible things - I repeat - which unfortunately only expressed political cynicism. I hope that now, but I fear with thousands of victims in front of us, all the wings will be possible - not only the wings that were sensitive and historically, traditionally, in the sense of culture on these issues - to see things differently and to have a solution for our country, which we together draw up and implement, and that is our will. Thank you, Mr President, for the great tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Minister. It seems that we have become the most exciting rise of the largest refugee and migration current, after the war, and this current finds Europe and the individual states unprepared in structures and means to deal with it. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. What I would like to say is that I am very pleased at the meetings and especially the Prime Ministers of the European Union, but as you know the meetings do not always end up in practical and successful measures. Minister - I told you personally, and I would like to say this publicly because I believe that - the wall that FRONTEX built in Evros has proved to have brought with it a dramatic reduction in the entrys through Evros to the country. At the same time, however, the wave to the islands began to increase, because there was no such wall there. So I told the Minister that FRONTEX should be "expanding" the wall to the islands as well. I mean, give us those infrastructures, GPS and radar ships that can track down as soon as slavery starts what exactly ships are. Because modern GPS give you the type of boat. Where they won't give the guy, it'll be the slave trade. They tell you which ship he is, his name, what load he's loaded, at what speed he's moving. It's the Navigator system. In my opinion, we must adopt this immediately, because the slave traders will automatically start worrying. Because what happened in Rhodes is that they left the ship in his luck, almost in the city of Rhodes, so they wouldn't be arrested themselves. If we had found them - because the distance from the Turkish coast is from ten to fifteen miles, depending on the point of Rhodes nearing - they would not have come and saved people. So I have the impression that the measures proposed by the government must also be proposed, and I believe that this will be practical and effective. As far as the more general problem is concerned, as the President has said, the issue of immigration is historically demonstrated that when there are social disturbances, such as those in the Mediterranean, we have a wave of immigration. But if we leave it that way, if we do not have stirring-up measures, this wave will become tsunami. Because, as the Minister said, there are two and a half million people in Turkey. What are they gonna do? If they think there's any way they'll go in any direction, they'll leave. So if we are the 'easy' gateway, they will come to us. If they are other countries, they will go to other countries. The phenomenon exists. At least, let us protect the country, a country that is now bankrupt - I say this, and I insist - because it does not have the financial capacity to withstand and make humanitarian efforts and humanitarian action for these unfortunate people. I, in fact, am shocked at the thought that he lost his life in Rhodes this way, a child, except the other two. Not that this is of less importance, of course, but it was a child. We must help them in all ways and we must, Minister, definitely go through practical measures. You must also tell Mr Avramopoulos, who must also consider practically.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Kremastein. Does the honourable Minister wish to reply?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u181	Wait a minute, Mr. President. They all recognise that these flows are shaped by poverty, tolerance, civil wars and large military interventions. States are being dissolved in our neighbourhood, such as Syria, Iraq, i.e. large, historical states. We are, therefore, in a historical division which should have a very different horizon to see the whole of these issues. FRONTEX you know that it does not participate in business, you know it better than I do, but it assists business, technology, etc. Perhaps I should not say it from a microphone, but I tell you that there is a long request from the port with funds to the European Union which have been validated, approved, and which have not been given and given for additional vessels and for additional rescue means. What concerns us, then, beyond the money if they come from there and the extra boats, etc., are doctors, nurses, health workers, psychologists, a port aid certainly. You realise that when the country has twenty-five million tourists and so many ports, the porters themselves who make the rescues, which have to record and devour the world and cars are a madness. People are in a dramatic situation. So if this as a government is to take it - and we must certainly take it as a cost - it is a matter of having specific policies at the moment and exceptionally policies in order to get this multiple aid to the islands which we are going to give.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr Minister, Mr Cremastine, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-20-S1-commons.u183	With the consent of the House at 21.28p. the sitting is closed next Thursday 23 April 2015 at 09.30', on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: reading reports and discussing topical questions.
