ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of Question Time. Question No 207/12-5-2015 by Mr Vassilis Katrivanos will be discussed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u2	I'm sorry, Mr. President, is there any other question that can be discussed first?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u3	Would you like to propose another question, Mrs. Catrivanu?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u4	Yeah, if you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u5	The second question under number 195/8-5-2015 will be put forward for the first time by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the draft merger plan for Police Departments. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Ioannis Panousis. Mr. Katasfadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the sense of security which each citizen must have is an inalienable right, whether he resides in large urban centres or resides in the region and in island areas. On the occasion of the publications and the effort made by the Greek Police in the context of reconstruction, I would like to inform you that a great climate of concern has been created in the constituency that I belong to, which is Piraeus and the islands. There is a very important problem in this geographical area. I would like to begin by saying that I fully understand the need for the reconstruction of the Greek Police. The Greek police must and must be modernised. At the same time, however, we must also understand the particularities of these regions. We are talking about an area which has a huge area with terrible discontinuance, because we are talking about many islands. We are talking specifically about the abolition of the Methana Police Stations, Dryopi - which belong to the Municipality of Troizinia - we are talking about the abolition of the Agistri Police Station, the abolition of the Mesagros Police Station in Aegina, and we are talking about the abolition of the Police Station on the Kythera River and Antikythera. As you can see, these are things that cannot be done. The citizens must and must understand that their 'l want' must go hand in hand with the reality that the country is experiencing. We must also understand that all our policy and strategy must move in the context of realism and the financial difficulties experienced by both the country and the police, EL.AS, by extension. I believe, however, that the proposals made by the municipal authorities solve the economic problem, even in the Municipality of Aegina, for the Messagros Police Station, where at least during the summer we are talking about fifteen thousand to twenty thousand people on a very large geographical area, because from this point, from Agia Marina to go down to the city of Aegina you need about an hour, a very large area. I don't need to tell you about Troizonia, where Mayor Troizina has taken over the expenses of the Dryoppi Police Station, a mountainous area with too many settlements, which is unprocessable. The Methane Police Station where we are talking about an entire peninsula with huge distance from the Galata Police Station and there the Mayor of Trizine takes the cost of running the Police Station. For Kythera, you should be informed that the Mayor of Kythera takes over the economic cost both for the River Station and for the Kythera Police Department in the city inside Kythera. I think it is an issue that needs to be resolved immediately. There is great insecurity in the world, there is great anxiety in the world. I think that by recognising the needs, the particularities that the region has, the high number of tourists for four and five months a year, who visit these areas and the sense of security that must exist and be strong for all these residents, the design, which must be done by ELAS, the reconstruction, which, as I have said to you, is necessary and must be modernised, it will lead to these police stations staying, as long as they do not have economic costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Katsafandos. Mr Panoussis, Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u8	Dear honourable Member, there has been a great misunderstanding. That is why the Heads of Mission also had to make a statement on 5 May and say - I am reading to you - 'According to the above, recent press releases and postings to electronic media for mass dismantling - police merging, lack a real basis'. Look at what's happened. The Headquarters, the Directorates-General for Police, were asked to table a number of proposals - even tomorrow, the deadline is not even over - to see how we are going to make reconstruction. There was not even a conversation in the physical leadership, nothing came to the political leadership and with leaks that were, unfortunately, also made by mail from the police community, there was this panic. It's not gonna happen that way. Look what the plan is. First of all, the plan is, as you said, security is not a financial benefit. What's that supposed to mean security? He says if in one area you have three police department with two policemen, they keep the sign, they keep nothing more than two police officers, because you want five to keep a police station. So these five are guarding the department. If you have five, you don't always have five. So we need to build stronger sections, for the time when the citizen is taking and says 'I want someone to run' and not to answer 'we don't have a car, we don't have a police officer, we have nothing'. On the other hand, they will qualify: populations, demographics, forensics, distances, exactly what you said, to see what crimes are going on in these areas. I went to the Kalavrytas and they told me why I'm retiring a department that's in the clitoria. I said I didn't remove anything, I haven't even seen it. If we look at all this and set the criteria, then we will also call on the Member States and the local authorities to see exactly where the major reconstruction is going to happen. Because reconstruction - if it is done, I am not saying the questions you have asked, there is not even such a thought - it may also have to change the centre of gravity. In other words, if there are five parts of the region and we go to two or three, these three will be in the centre of the area, so that they can just have general supervision. I can assure you, however, that no debate has taken place. Our aim is more security, streamlining the system, not even the rents they paid or anything else, and I think that in consultation with all the crew members we will achieve the optimal performance of the police.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. It's a sensitive matter. And in my vast region of Attica - I know that in Acharnes you were the other day - local communities have some opinions and we need to inform them. Mr Katasfadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u10	Minister, of course the problem of policing a region cannot be solved by a police station with two, one or three men. But you understand the feeling, which passes on to the citizen that at any time and at any moment a police force can be found to solve a problem, a dispute. You also understand that I did not talk to you about areas with urban characteristics. We are talking about areas where one police station from the other is thirty and forty kilometres of mountain and short roads, areas which have a problem with crime, areas which must not be left to their fate. What I wanted to say to you is that, because I am well aware of the suggestions made at the Piraeus Police Directorate, which make sense to abolish some of these police stations, since there is no economic cost, since they cover large geographical areas, since these areas, apart from the large geographical areas, also have a large number of population, which also cover the summer months, but also the winter period, I think it is necessary to have a better study, to have a deeper knowledge. Because, you know, each region has its specificities and characteristics. I trust the Greek police, I trust you personally. But you understand that all this climate of concern, which has been created, is only bad. This was the purpose of the question which I tabled to you. I would, of course, like to expect you, if you study things, to have a clear answer to which police stations are left and who will no longer be working. However, in my constituency, and not in the sense that we should serve the people's 'l want', but what the place really needs, I tell you that they are necessary, since they do not create economic costs and we should look at it even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr Katasfados, and for the brief speech. Mr Ioannis Panousis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u12	I would like to believe, Mr Papoutsis, that we will be ready in the middle of June. In the meantime, however, we are not sitting with our hands crossed. We create flexible teams of twenty-four policemen, who will go to targeted areas and sit there all day in collaboration with the police department, municipalities, etc. We activate the institution of the local policeman, there's a police officer in the headland, as it used to be. We made mobile police units. In Xanthi I had gone the other day, they are very happy, because in the Pomakohoria and generally in the mountainline, police are going to the citizen and not to the police. We have filled all our borders with Navara jeep and our critical islands. So the process will be the one I told you about. We will study it in terms of rationalisation and greater security and we will discuss it later. It is not suddenly going to open the newspaper one morning and see "this section has been abolished". It would be out of our democratic perception of participatory anti-crime policy. When the police and the political leadership prepare the plan they will call the MPs and local authorities to agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Catrivanu, are you ready now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u14	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u15	The first question under number 207/12-5-2015 will be discussed with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the new priorities of anti-criminal policy and the democratisation of the police. In the timely question, Mr Panosis will answer. Mrs Catrivanu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in recent years, the Greek Police have been involved in many cases of arbitrary, violence and lawlessness, where the same factor of lawlessness has sometimes been a factor of lawlessness. I do not want to insist on this because we have reports in the Greek and international press, international reports, Members' questions in parliamentary control. You have said it yourself in some ways respectively. Of course, the things of an inspiring situation do not change from one moment to the next. Our critical question, however, is where we are, on what path and we are concerned, because from January onwards we have incidents of arbitraryness both individually and collectively. I shall submit to the Minutes all these reports, for example, which I mention. The involvement of ELAS and ETUC officials in traffickers' circuits, the posture of MATs in Skouria in April, an archiving of ETVs for very serious cases of police violence, such as in the case of journalist Marios Lalos, the recent incident of an insulting and violent police attitude against Evia. The day before yesterday, we read that in Paleochora, Crete, police authorities are writing in their hands numbers, which take us to other situations, to Nazi camps, and that, as the NGOs are recording in the region, is a tactic that is constantly taking place. We can't treat them as individual incidents. Will there be an effective way of controlling and returning responsibility? Also, in the Police Operational Plan for the Centre of Athens, they are included as homeless, dependants, patrons, editors or suspects of illegal trade. We wonder how these goals will stop police practices that are supported and, indeed, from the recent report by Human Rights Watch on 6-5-2015, which mentions practices such as unnecessary control, harassment, arbitrary detention, physical abuse. But beyond accountability, which is of key importance, we expect, Minister, and an incision from your Ministry. We expect an intersection and a new plan, involving a democratisation policy and a police which will not be dissatisfied but which will be on the part of the citizen. We are also waiting for an organised plan to deal with fascist and nazi nuclei, which, of course, you know, will not be dissolved on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. Minister Ioannis Panousis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u18	Dear honourable Member, we obviously have a common concern about the success of the first and main objective of the Ministry, the reconciliation of the police with the citizen, without any suspicions and stereotypes of the past. But because the police are an institution of democracy, we must respect it and control it. I'll tell you what the police version is. Because if you want someone to judge him, you must obviously listen to him and not rely on some stereotypes that always the police - we are talking about fifty-five thousand people and talking to the police as an institution and not every police officer separately, because that is easy to deal with - by the nature of the profession it is the one that is wrong. As far as Skouries are concerned, I have said dozens of times that Skouria is a social problem, and the police can't solve it. Because, in fact, doing a ED didn't make any sense, because he was injured and a police officer, I sent the prosecutor the package. Let the D.A. check it out. As for the DELTA policeman who had a camera and helmet at the same time - but at the same time - we called him and at the expense of him, he has been subjected to disciplinary action. About the reports about involving police officers and the NSA in illegal acts, it has been since 2013. It's checked by the Home Office and I sent the package to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, who opened a new preliminary examination. I'm not going to leave anything uncontrollable, Your Honor. On the issue of beating young people in Orestiada, there we have a problem, obviously, because the police were off duty and, they say, were attacked. This has not yet been clarified. We'll see. As far as the foreign national from Pakistan is concerned, there is an administrative deportation. And that's where the Department of Home Affairs had been seized before we went to the HQ. On the issue of Macrea in Chania, it is not the police's fault that the video material was not accepted. The audience of the Monomele Court of First Instance in Chania denied this material. We took it. The police took the footage. It's not like that. As far as the interracial person in Evia is concerned, I'm very angry. You know, with this, I'm upset and I said to clarify immediately what's happened. Because it's antisocial, it's inhuman, it's fraud in any case. I'll say a word about the center of Athens. The plan of the center of Athens, which is police and not police rule, is to protect them. Probably other formalities of mine, they have created problems for no reason, but the plan is to protect the prostate of her, the homeless of anyone who will go to take advantage of him, the user from any trader. We don't go downtown in Athens to hunt them down. To protect them, let's go. Probably need something more. What I would like to say in my protology and I am ending - I am not talking very much - is that we should not be stigmatizing the whole team. You think fifty-five thousand teachers, fifty-five thousand doctors, fifty-five thousand lawyers, no cases? I try calmly and mildly to manage, as I do on other issues, to bring them in where the Constitution and the laws force them to enter. But they are workers, they have children, they have families. We can't do the cleansing without calm, screaming. He wants a peace, justice and the police, because he's going to be at the service of the national effort and he's at the service of the national effort. He wants another manipulation. We agree on the substance. There's nothing to argue about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Catrivanu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Vassilis Catrivanou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am pleased, Mr Minister, to hear that you also have one reason to pay due attention and to be accountable in all cases. But, Minister, beyond individual incidents, we expect more than you. We really expect a different spirit to be given so that these are not treated as individual cases and that the routine of the SADs does not come, which most of the time goes to drawers and do not become a new normality. Now that this is the beginning, it is crucial that you give another spirit of intervention, as we have said. The recordings, as you said, about the target groups, from Human Rights Watch, are talking about harassment, arbitrary detention, physical abuse, etc. It's not simple control. Now, Minister, in this spirit we are talking about, especially the centre of Athens, I would like to say that we are also calling for a different stigma from you. Why did you make a statement last days that you would keep the acquis Trees in Athens. And I want to reinstate what the acquis is. Twelfths in general. The acquis was, therefore, when the Minister spoke of 'bad' immigrant quality. When he sued GUARDIAN or said he would sue GUARDIAN for the torture of the anti-fascists. When he made his business in the center of Athens. When he made the operations "Thetis" in the center of Athens, which involved the collection of toxic, homeless, positive, and transported them to Amygdaleza for violent examination of HIV and then let them walk away from Amygdaleza in the center of Athens. Not only did it reduce the problem, but it put it under the carpet, worsened it and broke the relationship between the drug addicts and social welfare structures. It was disastrous, Minister. This is the acquis Twelfths. The acquis Trees are the opened heads of the Fall and the Caucasus and other such incidents. We therefore want an ad valorem approach to this acquis. Because this acquis is a acquis of arbitrary, lack of accountability and also ineffectiveness. And we do not want green light to continue with this practice, barbaricity and violation of rights. We want a 'other' light from you, Minister, in another direction, protection, democratisation, rights, which you have spoken about in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u22	I'm glad for the question, because it helps me say two things. The acquis communautaire may well have been said in this way, but it is the acquis communautaire. The clean center, but not the same procedures. Did you see in the four months a broom, a "Zenus Zeus" operation? We went to Ammondale together, I think. But no one talks about the same methods. But society - and a citizen's Minister for Protection - must take this into account - tells you that this open centre is slowly being lost. I am not talking about crime, that immigrants are identified with crime or immigrants are identified with terrorism. Such things as far away from me. But when the centre's businesspeople come to you and say that step by step - they win space - organised crime I say, not immigrants - that's what we need to take into account as a ministry. We can't forget it. So accept, erase - if you like - the word "Nines" and place the acquis of the open, clean centre, which we will achieve in another way. We won't succeed with him. You've never seen anything like this before. As far as the SADs are concerned, the SADs were opy-paste all and I said it first. And I said they'd open up some more when I have more evidence, so we don't show up now that we're making retaliations. We did have three convictions, one criminal, one administrative and one disciplinary one, and I welcomed them. And I said that good work we have police convicted, because that's how it shows that the jury pays her, and it's not a stigma all over the police. After five years I activated the Succession Office. The Prime Minister accepted Minister Voutsi's proposal and I should like to make a second filter for the inter-party committee of democratic police control. I'm changing disciplinary law. They won't be cops. I'll change the instrument. They will be judges, university professors, just to be credible. But you are wrong with Human Rights because it was in 2014. It wasn't about us. We have advisers and the Council of Europe's CPT and Human Rights - and I have told them themselves - and the UN that the spokesman for the torture issue came yesterday and we talked about it. And tomorrow, for two and a half hours, we have a meeting for the entire Citizens' Counselor team and the entire ministry team, to see where we have disagreements on what we've been told that we are violating certain principles and rights. And I told them it's the Ministry's consultants, it's the CPT, Human Rights, the Citizen's Counselor. It's not someone else. So we're balanced. We are balanced on very delicate lines, dear - if I may also speak to you personally - Mrs Catrivanou. There's nothing. If I make some statements sometimes that seem a little strange, etc., I apologize, but I never change my mind. For thirty years I have been writing and speaking in amphitheatres and scientific rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. There are two questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Voutsi, but before I read what is not discussed mainly because of the blockade of Ministers. The third, with number 204/11-5-2015, top-stage question by MP 1 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the treatment of the unemployment of Greek seafarers, is not discussed by the Minister and deleted. The fourth under number 201/11-5-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the reform of the rules of operation of the "TILISIA S.A.", finding a solution for business merchants and farmers who are unable to meet their financial obligations, as well as the reopening of the auctioning of the first home, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The second question, under number 205/11-5-2015, is a topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Artemios Matthaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the situation in the prisons of the country, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Member and deleted. The fourth question under number 187/5-2015, on the deprivation of the fourteen regional airports, is not discussed by the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, as a result of the closure of the fourteen regional airports. The sixth Question No 172/30-4-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the legislative guarantee of disability pensions and the unreasonable first residence, is not discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment and deleted. The sixth question under number 168/28-4-2015 is the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on "the assignment of our Macedonian name to the Skopje", not discussed by the Minister and deleted. The first question with number 1328/3-32015 by Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament I of the New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the privatisation of the Port Authority of Piraeus (PAC) is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. We enter into the development of the first under number 196/8-5-2015 topical question by the MP Thesprotia of New Democracy Mr. Vassiliou Yoyaka to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the completion of the project "Manufacturing of pedestrian streets of the city of Samithia" in Parathia Thesprotia. In the timely question, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis will answer. Mr Yoyaka, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the content and substance of the timely question I have put to you concerns the decision to take a project at Thesprotia Fairy. The decision was taken on the grounds of the need to reduce the programme's overcompensation by the NRP. Minister, I would refer to the substance of the problem, to tell you that when the accession decision was withdrawn no one took into account that this was a mature task in which the broker and the contract had been declared to be at the stage of pre-approval. Furthermore, in the formal text of the Decision, known by means of a letter of 25 February 2015, it is not known whether there were criteria and what they were for selecting the projects that were or were not part of the projects for which applications had been made. So the questions I ask you are: First, what reasoned reason was the decision to end this project? Secondly, what do you intend to do about the reintegration of the project into and its immediate implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u26	Because, Mr President, this procedure of parliamentary scrutiny is also good for this when it comes to the issues of development in your region and especially in your region - which one can say in general is unfair in terms of development projects, infrastructures, with high unemployment rates and others - and so I shall begin with the very fact that you - the bodies elected there, the associations and the Members - and, in view of the new management period for the NRP to see what priorities are going to be placed in the area, and in this case, the over-importance of the area as well, in terms of procedures. I say this to you as a political engineer because you realise that it would be a problem after the delays and dismantling - what we are discussing and then analysing - to approve one project, namely to take a hiking trip and then, as has been done in many areas, to sewage it. I mean, put them in a row or else. I say this as a recommendation and a collegiate one beyond my formal status as a minister today that I answer to you. You should be aware that the Ministry of Interior is the only, but of course essential, relationship with the integration and implementation of projects, because through the EBRD, which we supervise, the integration of the EBRD is sometimes carried out as an intermediate manager on the basis of proposals from municipalities, regions, etc. The final agreements and provisions with regard to the legal framework which was recently adopted here in the House in December are almost entirely and entirely a matter for the Ministry of Development. From there, and in the previous period, namely the previous government, about a year ago, and now that we have the decision on the answer, that is to say, from that Ministry and twice, a balanced classification is finally being made, having overall supervision of what is going on in Greece. Since these resources are not sufficient, because there was a overcompensation, proposals had been made - I repeat - and last year they were finally implemented from the proposal made by the Ministry and we were ready for signature. It brings my signature and the text that comes from the Ministry of Development is ready. To tell you fat, those who had not been fully compatible, on the basis of this data, could not end in 2015 which is the extension of the plan 2013, i.e. the previous NRP, and in this sense could not be included. We're talking about a multitude of projects, more than sixty were only in Attica, to understand. I would like to assure you - and I am addressing the President and you, because I also spoke to the CEDEFOP a few days ago - that it is far from us any, literally any, customer-type concept of integration, responses, etc. You did not imply it, just by the way I mentioned it: if you see what municipalities have been built now, you will understand. And they all said, "Well, Voutsis, with his signature, is taking out this work?" It's some rules. If we are going to improve certain situations in order to control both on the road to maturity, the possibility of projects being implemented, their necessity, to do so. I'm talking to you, based on the rules that exist. I would remind you that last year the Ministry of Development had set a date and then did not recognize this possibility for further continuation of projects. But I'm telling you, they're mostly working, we've got them, we've signed them. I repeat that I cannot commit - and I am telling you this very clearly - to one or another of the projects, and that is why I also told you of an overtime extra project, which exists in your area, the sewer. All efforts must be made to ensure that such projects, combined, enter and implement. However, a commitment that says that this will go ahead, in fact, in this next plan, I cannot get it. To mobilise individual bodies and services so that for the good of the region these projects are approved. We don't argue, you understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u28	Minister, because I have also done self-government as a prefect in Thesprotia, the anguish of both mayors and regional units is enormous in trying to integrate a project. You know that, because the efforts are enormous, from the moment the study is carried out, until the moment it comes into being and will be auctioned and, in fact, implemented is even more important, so that those people, who have a great deal of effort and, in particular, in remote areas, are struggling, integrating them and creating them. Of course, you said about the sewer. It is also an important task, which is to be done in the region, of course, is independent of one another.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u29	Yeah, but it's technically precedented, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u30	It's not going to happen on the sidewalks, it's going to happen on the street. Of course, here is an important issue you raise, because one passes OTE, one passes PPC, one not overall planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u31	One gas, all that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u32	That is why money is often wasted unjustly. But because the effort has been in this project since December 2013 - and I want to believe that you will well see it - we want at the first opportunity, because it had entered the integration process, you can give a priority to the future, so that this project can be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u34	Yes, for a minute, Mr. President. Just for the publicity of the meeting, I would like to say that the competitive process took place after 14-4-2014 from the previous government and in this sense the deadlines, dates, project ripeness from the Ministry had been given. I respect it. I cannot say whether there was any subjective or selective attitude from the ministers of the previous government. I note that from there on, the current leadership of the Ministry of Development followed, as I told you, some of the data which are very strict, and which are also coming from the wider Community framework, made us this list, we signed it. To tell you the truth, although two and a half months and three months have passed, we have no valid objections pan-Hellenically certifying that other projects have left them to grow and that contracts have now been concluded, while others have awarded them. It seems that the principles of equality and equality have been respected. Of course, local societies may have been disillusioned for a number of projects, but I believe that with the new ESDP and an early process, which must be done by all actors, all of these projects or the most basic ones will be within the priorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister and Mr Yoyaka. Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, Member of the New Democracy Parliament, is requesting a leave for absence on 18-5-2015 and on 19-5-2015 for participation in a Conference in Berlin. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u36	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Konstantinos Achilleas Karamanlis seeks permission from absence from 21-5-2015 until 24-5-2015, to go abroad for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u37	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We are entering the last debate on today's topical question. It is the third with number 202/11-5-2015 topical question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the Government's intention to employ thirty employees in the Municipality of Dirfis - Messapia. The Minister will answer Mr. Nikolaos Voutsi. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you know, in the past period the government - and it has done well - has done wanting to mention, symbolize, in any case, the shift towards humanism, passed the law on the democratisation of the public administration and thus healed too many wounds left behind by the Memorandum Policy. However, one of these wounds is also here, which does not need and does not need to be a special piece of legislation, which is why it has not come from us and has not been a matter for legislative improvement or for legislation from the outset. So this is a real legal abstraction in Greece's legal world. What is it? And from the n. It was laid down in Article 26 that, when we entered for good in the field of memorandum policies, those workers who were in legal persons of the LAGs and who were made redundant in such jobs in the same municipality themselves, and while in the Messapians in the municipality there were workers over ten years - others from 1999 to 2010 - thirty employees employed in municipal enterprises there and while they were admitted by a unanimous decision of the Municipal Council of Messapians - or by a majority, if I remember correctly - and while this decision was ratified by a relevant decision of the Region, that is to say, while it was published in the FEK, that is to say, the entire legal form that should be taken, in order to finally come their place within the municipality, however, until now these people have been legally excluded. They are in the mood to be involved and all of them have gone as sheep for slaughter. However, the Ministry of Interior at the time - I think in 2012 - had requested an opinion from the Legal Council of the State. Indeed, the Legal Council of the State issued its 194/2013 opinion and said: We accept the validity and legality of the positions which have been legally completed with the GEO issued and which are now required by the public body, the general public body, which is the OTAs, namely the OTA of Messapians, to accept the services and to place these officials in their positions. However, this has so far not been accepted by the Municipality of Messapion, who, on the other hand, has expressed various views on micro-party internal disputes, within the framework of the municipal things of that time, wants to ensure his backs, that he fully fulfils the lawfulness and asks the Minister of Interior to accept this opinion in order to obtain full legal strength and obligability. This opinion - we have not seen it - was accepted by the then Minister for the Interior, Mr Stylianides, but by the then Minister for the Interior, without waiving the approval of the former, for small and medium-sized interests has expressed a different view, but it has not reached the point of withdrawing the acceptance of the opinion. How can she withdraw it, when I have shared the case-law, and on the side of this opinion? When all the procedure for the valid placement of people has been legally completed, how can the Minister take a different legal view, of course? It only expressed one view, if their in principle appointment in 2000 or 2004 was valid or not, after 10 years, when people had fully fulfilled their work obligations. After that, Minister, what we are asking - which is self-evident - is for you to answer what your Ministry intends to do, and you personally, who know that you have the greatest, strong, democratic, legal and humanitarian sensitivity, to the treatment of this legal embezzlement, which is wrong to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, my colleague. Minister Nikolaos Voutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that we have indeed tried, through this legislation - under the new law, which you, too, supported and voted for, and which seems to be in the eye of the cyclone of various domestics and abroad, in relation to the efforts that have been made, to restore at least some of the accusations that have been wronged by the Memorandum Policies - as far as these specific policies are concerned, to treat some clear cases. I find an opportunity from today's question to tell you that particularly the Deputy Minister, Mr Katrugalos, has, like myself - but less - literally from twenty-five years to fifteen years - collective, group violations or injustices which, at work and in itself, have brought about a state of uncertainty,'moved sand' and unemployment. We have been in a very difficult position and we are still in a very difficult position, as, I repeat, a large number of workers, individually or collectively, bring us their cases that are well before the Memorandum, but also some within the four-year period - five years of the memorandum with these concerns and the problems they have. You know very well that we are not in a position, because of the budgetary commitments - in addition to all other procedures, IASA etc. - to restore and heal. Of course, we are at the beginning of governance as a government, we have noted all these cases and we should see them in due course, in due course, looking at them on a case-by-case basis and try to heal them. In this regard, on this particular subject you should know that the dossier is too rich and great. They also had different views - from what I understood by studying the file - the previous and the current municipal authority in relation to the exploitation of these workers. There was the decision of the Legal Council of the State. There was also the decision of the AACC, which was not encouraging to proceed with this arrangement. There were successive decisions, which after the intervention of the decentralised administration, the municipal councils themselves changed, i.e. decisions of the municipal councils that changed in their direction. It really is a very contradictory case - one would say - and one was involved. But let us see the substance, because the rest of you have it very well, as a lawman, if I am not mistaken. I've got a lot of papers I've studied and we can see what's cross-referenced by all these principles. It doesn't make any sense. We'll have to see the substance. The point is that the municipal authority today wanted and wants to use these people in jobs because they are experienced and their presence in these jobs can be very useful, beyond the element of the restoration of injustice, of law, etc. So we need to discuss and make an effort from the municipality itself - that may be our assistance - with the ASP. To discuss with the AACC, because that is where all the lists are formed - for both permanent staff and contract staff - and to propose the way in which these workers will be included in such a list and settled. We cannot write down the decision of the AACC on this issue with a ministerial decision and rightly the mayor, who is very positive about the development and appointment of these people, wants to be fully covered in law and the municipal authority to be covered and the workers themselves to be covered by the move that will take place. In other words, there must be a joint effort to see how it will be possible to rehabilitate in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. It is a great success for the government to vote n. 4326 who re-established justified charges. But, Minister, as you can see, there are other categories, such as the one that my colleague, contracted to the OAU, etc. I think you can come up with an absorption plan in the near future, because there are also injustices, which need to be restored. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-six students and students and four educational attendants of the Mavrothalas Serres School. We welcome you and wish you health and progress! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much. Minister, I shall say this very quickly: I fully agree with you and with the outline of your thinking. What I would like to point out by differentiating the proposal - if I understand well - which you are doing towards joining these people in a future list of SAPAs is this: that their position has never been cancelled, which has been legally completed with the FEK, in fact with two FEKs. It's the numbers. 61 and 62 28-2-2011. So here the placement has become legally complete. It's just not happening. So there is no one here to tell them that I will carry out the administrative act, which the public administration itself has adopted. Therefore, in my humble view, it would be repetitive to take some from the final stage, in which the placement is now being carried out and to turn them to an early stage in the AACC list, which we refer to in good faith. I would remind you that these people have provided their services since 1999, others from 2004 until the end of 2010. So there aren't some who suddenly fell off the clouds. That is why the Legal Council of State has diagnosed that there is absolutely no legal problem. The Legal Council of the State took into account the decisions of the AACC, which, for formal reasons, said what they said, and said that, after the legal form of the placement, it is appropriate and correct to conclude this position by accepting the services. So what do we have, in a few words? We have a judicial decision or an administrative act here ordering acceptance of the services and comes part of the public administration, the municipality, and says: 'I do not accept them'. In my opinion, therefore, an additional question should be put to the Legal Council of the State, but with the wish of a rapid answer, because it has already been decided: 'How is the decision of the AACC combined on the one hand...', why do I understand your own division at the moment in your mind, '... on the other hand, the opinion, which the Legal Council of State itself has adopted, which says, 'place them'? If your problem really is this, let us ask ourselves a further question, but do not refer to the good news of the AACC, because this is perhaps the way in which we will have a great injustice, to refer these people to an early administrative stage, and they have actually ended up with the placement through the VEC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister Nikolaos Voutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u44	Mr Colleagues, I have no objection to go along with this particular approach, namely the one you are pointing out. Because, in the final analysis, the Legal Council of State will make a breakthrough between them. Because in fact, Mr President - you are also very experienced - it is a case where two successive municipal authorities have another view and the Legal Council with the AACC had another view on the subject of disciplinary proceedings against the previous municipal authority, which did not approve the recruitments, to which the mayor and the others were acquitted. The current mayor says that he considers them absolutely essential and advocates their position. It is a very complicated case, which is obviously to get it out of hand - and I mean for the labour force, because we are 'practical', we are neither a laboratory nor a court or a court to look at things - we cannot, of course, overlook the process. So we can go in this way, that is to say, to ask a specific question, with all the dossier, and I hope that in a reasonable time we will have these opinions from the Legal Affairs Council, firstly. Speaking of the AACC, I did not mean that these should be included in an earlier procedure, but I meant to inform him of the whole dossier and after its own action, so that it would also propose the easiest procedure for the mayor to be able to proceed with recruitment. We'll look at it with the best mood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. The Minister saw it positive in principle, Mr Mavragani. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-18-S1-commons.u46	With the consent of the House at 9.00 p.m. the sitting on Thursday, May 21, 2015, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) a statement of petitions and b) a debate on topical and urgent questions.
