ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Discussion and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, of the proposal 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament (Part II)', (VAT 51/A/104-1997), as applicable. The proposal of the President of Parliament was accepted by the Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure by a majority of 4/5 and therefore, in accordance with Rule 108(6) and (1), the vote may be taken without debate. However, following the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 5-11-2015, I propose that one speaker be given the floor from each party for five minutes. Now, I will give the floor to the President of Parliament, Mr. Nikos Voutsi, for a brief suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are starting a process which, in the near future, will have more scenes, so to speak, will have more moments. In other words, we are putting in place a process of change in the Rules of Procedure which will come quite often, since it passes through the committee, on the basis of the very large majority provided, for formal or less formal ratification by Parliament as well. You may recall that I, too, said in the opening speech that all the special regulations that exist for many of the functions of this House should be changed and changed in the direction that we say in the Rules of Procedure, that is, all these special regulations will be included in the General Rules of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure. One will be the Rules of Procedure with Section I which has the procedures and which we have not dealt with at all today, with Section B, which has other matters to say now and there will also be all the other Special Regulations, which will have a general part concerning all services and possibly some specific issues from the Scientific Committee to the Parking or the Infantry and will not only refer to them, so that we leave a regime where there were really too many Special Regulations that were never intended to come to plenary and to be voted on, as well as Section B, which, although they were not in the last few years, had not been involved. We are therefore entering a procedure - and I think that is what all of us are expressing to us - further and full transparency and modernisation of the whole section of the Rules of Procedure and of the Regulations which have to do with individual functions. The proposed amendment to part II of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament seeks, in particular, to reduce posted officials serving in Parliament and to save premises within parliament, necessary for the proper conduct of the parliamentary work, through the relocation of former Presidents of the Parliament to buildings outside the House. There is provision for individual interventions for the purpose of filling gaps in the Rules of Procedure and more efficient operation of Parliament's services. Article 1 shall be abolished gradually over forty posted by posted officials of the Parliament at offices, in particular former Presidents of the Parliament, former Prime Ministers and former Presidents of Parliament's Parliamentary Groups. It is also expressly stated that two parliamentary periods after the end of the term of office of the former Presidents of the Parliament and former Prime Ministers may be appointed only one posted official. In particular, an official's post at the offices of the former Presidents of the Parliament and a post of posted official at the offices of the former Prime Ministers shall be abolished at the beginning of the next second session of the current parliamentary term, Article 1(1a). A further post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of staff of former Prime Ministers shall be abolished at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, Article 1(1a). The post of posted official, assistant staff at the offices of the former Presidents of the Parliament, shall be abolished at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, Article 1(1)(b). The post of posted official entitled by the former Vice-Presidents of the Parliamentary Governments, as well as the post of posted official entitled by the former Members of Parliament, shall be abolished at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, Article 1(1)(c). I would like to make this point here. I would like at this point, if at the end of the day, to refer to a change which has been requested and which is correct, because it says that 'in paragraph (c) of Article 1 of the proposal by the President of Parliament 'to amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, as is the case, a subparagraph is added: 'When both qualities are present in the same person' - that is to say, I say directly, when both of the former Vice-President of Parliament are present with that of the former President-in-Office of the Council - 'the ones provided for in the above cases H and one of the two posts laid down therein' - that is to say, that both posters should not be cut off. There are very few cases of this, and it is right that we clarify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u3	From the next parliamentary term it is expressly stated that at the offices of former Presidents of the Parliament and at the offices of former Prime Ministers who held a party MP and Heads of State and had a vote of confidence in the House, three posted officials may be employed for two parliamentary periods after the end of their term of office, Article 1(2)(a). After the expiry of the above two parliamentary periods, only one post of post of post of post of post of post of post of post of staff, Article 1(2)(b) shall be entitled. Article 2 proposes the relocation of the former Presidents of the Parliament and former Prime Ministers, if they have not been elected MPs, by parliament to other buildings of the Parliament, in order to find the premises necessary for the service of the parliamentary work in the central building of the Parliament. Also available - up to three employees and up to four officers are added to the previous one - to the former Presidents of the Parliament and Prime Ministers. It was not just for the former Prime Ministers, I would clarify it. Article 3 and 4. The way in which a position is to be taken in the office of the President of Parliament shall be determined in accordance with the arrangements laid down in the a.d. 3/2005 on the government and governmental bodies. Article 5 deals with matters relating to the recognition of a service outside the Parliament of its staff in accordance with the provisions of the Staff Regulations. Date of birth: 4024/2011. Article 6 shall resolve issues relating to fixedterm contracts in the House which have already expired and shall state that, with the agreement of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, retroactive effect of such contracts may be granted provided that continuous and uninterrupted work is duly demonstrated at the time of referral. In Article 7, in order to fill a gap in the rules of the Rules of Procedure in relation to the time when the Staff Board is set up for the officials of the Parliament and to deal with matters arising from its late establishment, pursuant to Rule 90(5) of the Rules of Procedure, an arrangement corresponding to the provision of Rule 159(14) of the Rules of Procedure shall be introduced. Regulation (EC) No 3528/2007 (OJ L 228/2007), as amended by paragraph 2 of the n. Date of birth: 4275/2014. It is expressly stated that, until 1-3-2016, all the Special Regulations on the organisation and operation of Parliament's services, which have been delegated to Article 100(1) and (2), ex 106, of 1964, are to be incorporated into this Regulation in accordance with their general provisions. What I was saying before about the special regulations for individual functions, services, etc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: In Article 9 of the Court of Auditors' decision of 4932/2013, it was considered that the Rules of Parliament Part II cannot regulate pension matters for officials of Parliament, since such arrangements should be included exclusively in a special pension law, after the procedure of the Court of Auditors’ opinion, Article 73(2) of the Constitution has been followed. For this reason, and in order to harmonize the Rules of Procedure to the above decision, it is proposed that the relevant regulations be repealed. Article 10 states that the clearance of Parliament's expenses shall be carried out by the Head of the Directorate for Economic Services of the Parliament and shall be nominated by his alternates. Article 11 proposes to amend paragraph 2 of Rule 152 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure in order to be able to participate in the Technical Board of Parliament from the Ministry of Transport and Networks instead of the Ministry of Development currently foreseen as a result of a change in the responsibilities of the Ministries. Article 12 provides for the time of entry into force of the proposed amendment. This whole package related to Section II comes as a code - that is what the Rules say - in the House, that is, does not change. There is nothing to change through this debate. Changes can only be made to the committee preparing these proposals with representatives of all the parties. Potentially, some marginal issues relating mainly to former prime ministers, presidents, etc. There may be some further or partial objections to some of these decisions that we are going to make today, any change that we wanted to make, in the next time - which I repeat will be in a very few months' time to deal with Section I of the Rules of Procedure or with other things - will still change if it is decided unanimously by the parties that it can change. So it's not something that we change and it stays in. If there are some things that will have to be changed again, Parliament will change. Thank you very much. The President also said what the procedure is normally intended to be. There is no particular debate. But it would be good, because it starts a dynamic conversation around the Rules of Procedure, to speak for five minutes. It would help all of us to have a debate like this, to spend half an hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u4	The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the need to amend Parliament's Rules of Procedure was expressed from all the sides of the House. In response to this need, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities already raised this issue. By unanimity, there was only one reservation from a single party representative - all the representatives of the parties in the House's Committee on the Rules of Procedure decided to amend the Rules of Procedure gradually, so that its amendment has been completed by April 2016. At the Parliament's Committee on the Rules of Procedure on 5-11-2015, it was decided to make some amendments to the House today on the basis of a criterion and to save expenditure from the reduction of Parliament's staff from sectors which do not produce parliamentary work, to improve the operation of parliamentary work by saving spaces within Parliament, also on the basis of and on the basis of the regularity of outstanding employment issues for persons employed in Parliament and also to save transparency by consolidating all the Special Regulations and the diverse provisions that exist and concerning the functioning of the Parliament. With today's amendments, the Special Rules of the Parliament are Part II of the Rules of Procedure published in the FEK in 2007. The current provisions, the current Articles, are eleven and twelve at the date of their entry into force. It is a total of 12, the eleven of which amend Part Two. Only one provision amends the Rules of Procedure of the House which we all have in our hands and we know. I would like to say another principle which requires the specific amendments we are making today: it is the codification of all parts of the House's Rules of Procedure and this little book, which we all know, and those in Part II of the Rules of Procedure, but also other diffuse provisions and their unification into a single body. In short, Mr President-in-Office, I would say that today's Rule 1 is gradually abolished so that redundancies are not made, over forty posters of posted officials of the House in the offices, particularly the former Presidents of Parliament, the former Prime Ministers and the former Presidents of Parliament. It is also expressly stated that two parliamentary periods after the end of the term of office of the former Presidents of the Parliament and former Prime Ministers may be appointed only one posted official. Article 2 provides for the relocation of former Presidents of the Parliament and former Prime Ministers, if they have not been elected MPs, by parliament to buildings outside the House. Articles 3 and 4 stipulate how the positions in the Office of the President of the Parliament are to be filled accordingly and the arrangements in the B.C. 63/2005 laying down the rules for the appointment of officials, workers of the Government and the governmental bodies. Articles 5 and 9 regulate matters relating to the recognition of a service and pension, in accordance with the law. 4024/2011, which is the law regulating public affairs. It goes without saying that any changes from the expected insurance law will be in line with the specific provisions of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Article 6 resolves issues relating to fixedterm employment contracts which have expired, but workers normally offer their services. Here it is laid down that, by a decision of the President of Parliament, which will have retroactive effect, a retroactive effect may be conferred on the renewals of such contracts, provided that continuous and uninterrupted work is duly demonstrated at the time of retroactive work. Article 7 deals with issues relating to the timing of the establishment of a Staff and Disciplinary Board for officials of the Parliament. And since these councils are elected for two years, there is a specific provision and the current term of office begins on 14 October 2015 and ends on 31 December 2016. Article 8 is a very important article. It is what stipulates that all the scattered provisions of the First and Second Parts of the Rules and wherever they are located will be united by March 2016 and specific technical and specific issues are clarified. Here I should like to repeat, by end, what the President said, that today is the beginning of this process that begins today and will be completed by March 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u7	First of all, I would like to make it clear that we agree, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with all the provisions of the second part of the Rules of Procedure, but I would like to find out which points there is a difference to which we should pay particular attention. I think that more attention should be paid to the lifting of the injustice that had been committed to the civil servants of a fixed period of time in the House. I think it's being sorted out temporarily. I hope, and I believe that the President will continue to do so, so that this issue can be resolved. The second change which we have is the abolition of forty posted officials from some former and former Presidents of Parliament, such as former and former Prime Ministers. This is done for economic reasons, because I would really like to show you that the House is making an economy. I would just like to say to you that the House budget for 2009 was EUR 222,140,000 and for 2015 it is EUR 139,922,000. What does that mean? It means that we in Parliament have made 37% reductions in this period. And not only are these reductions, these are in terms of the budget. If you look at the report of the House, you will see that we are repeatedly making money at the General Accounting Office. There was a year when we returned 22 million, another year 18 million and another year 10 million. This is all part of our ability to offer the national economy now at this difficult time in our country. What I would like to give really important, because I have taken part in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure many decades ago, is the amendment - and it is very important - in the Rules of Procedure. The Special Regulations - I will tell you directly - were a weapon almost in the hands of each President. I am pleased that we are now deciding on the Special Regulations to include them in the General Regulation. It's a very important matter. I think that this should have been done, I am glad that it is now being done and it is an effort that we will all support. I would like to make two - three general remarks. Now this is about amending the Rules of Procedure in Part II. I really want to deal with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure in Part One, in the Parliamentary Party. The House has gone a long way. And when I say it has moved forward, we now have an eight-party parliament. They've changed the data. We must also change the flow in terms of our parliamentary work. I would therefore propose - and I have made this proposal to the President - that of all the parties be given proposals for all of the articles of the Rules of Procedure, the First Party, and that they be included in a brave amendment - I mean the First part of the Rules of Procedure. After talking about economy, I would also like to know something that goes almost unnoticed. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members of this House and the Parliament's Guard for their inconvenient efforts, because everyone who is following this House thinks that the officials of this House are in Parliament only when Parliament is operating here in the House of plenary or in the committees. They do not know that most of the time we leave at 1 and 2 o'clock, another four to five hours of Parliament's services, and the authors and stenographers, for all the other tasks that we must follow in our parliamentary work, are sitting here. This is very important and indeed have contributed financially, because the reductions in the remuneration made to the officials of the Parliament are also brave. And now I'm going to talk about the MPs as well. Because they have accused us too much of many issues, I do not allow charges with regard to Members of Parliament in relation to where they belong. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need two minutes, Madam President. We are the only part of the Greek people that our destiny is posted at any time at the "DIAGY". At any time! In fact, when I was chairman of the Article 21 Committee, you are thinking that together with our accounts, together with the accounts, together with the amounts, on the last page there was also our signature, of all prime ministers and presidents and Members and ministers, and it was very easy for some to scan the signature and take any illegal action. Then we took the decision, at least the last page that was signed, not to exist. We are the only part and only part of the Greek people who have not been sampled, who have had control over the three hundred and fifty when it comes to a new Parliament or other debts. Not to say that in other parts of the Greek people only sampling is done and in many cases it is not done. I would like to end by mentioning a number of issues in general, which I would like my colleagues to take note of. I urge you to visit Benacio Library. It's in Lenorman, the old chimney. Go see what we've done there. Go see the Library of Parliament what treasures it has. Go see what a rich file the Library of Parliament has. I, too, suggested to the President that we make a few partial visits, visit Benacio Library, to see what treasure is there. One more thing. We all know that the Old Parliament does not belong to us. The Old Parliament, as you know, does not belong to the Greek Parliament, it is the property of the Ministry of Culture, and it has even given it a ten-year contract to the National Museum. All parties must make an effort to ensure that the Old Parliament comes to the property of the Greek Parliament, as it has been in the past. The last thing I would like to say and thank you for your tolerance is this: I have been President twice as President of the Commission for the Revision of the Constitution. I therefore propose and urge committees of our own at times to be able to meet either in Nafplion or in the Ionian Parliamentary in Corfu. I see the Corfu colleague liked that! They want some improvements, but we will be able to do this and I think it will be a success for all of us if we are to unite on these issues, just as we have today in amending the Rules of Procedure. It was not for the sake of a negative vote to amend the Rules of Procedure, a'represent' had, it did not have an amendment. I would also like to say on these issues. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Tragakis. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u9	I'm gonna talk this way for a while. Without wishing to contrast with Mr Tragakis, who has been a Member since 1974, if I am not deceived, I would like to make some points about what we have heard. He is a very experienced politician, he twisted his word, he told us that he is pleased that the Special Regulation is changing in this period and he is born, as he is born in every Member of Parliament and Parliament, but also in those who are following us, the question: why has there not been a change in the presidency of Mr Meymarakis? I mean, Mr. Tragakis told us his pleasure, but he didn't explain why it didn't happen before. One of the prisoners. Secondly, because it has been mentioned in what has been said, by saying that Members are the persecuted economic and mediators, I would like to say the following: at least as far as the Members and the Golden Dawn Party are concerned, in the last three years we have been examined by the ILO, and our party funds and the so-called Members of the Golden Dawn, even those who have not been re-elected in June 2013. So I ask Mr Tragakis personally: What, Mr Tragaki, are you here telling us about where you were, when your own party, a member of your own party, a dolphin of your own party, does not only accept control over finance but does he say that the 200 million people owed by New Democracy should not be deleted from the poor laurico that SYRIZA - ANEL coup d'état is ready with international loan sharks to take his first home, the home that is inhabited? These were other than what I wanted to say, but I took the opportunity from the lover's suggestion - otherwise - Mr Tragakis. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction, Madam President, that the subject of the Rules of Procedure, of the Annex, of Annex II to the Rules of Procedure is finally to be discussed in plenary because in the committee that I took part, there was the proposal - listen, listen - 'i' children, since we all agree and there is no disagreement, let us close it here and not bring it to plenary'. So, should the tradition that was hidden here from the Greek people continue? Let me remind you again - because I am speaking on behalf of my party - that it was the Golden Dawn that, with its entry into the Greek Parliament, made known how much Greek MP gets. As far as the annex and the changes to the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I would like to say our views and explain our position. So I say this firstly: these changes are relentless. They are changes which are not done boldly and are not radical changes. We're talking about this second session of this period, after the other period, in the coming period. So when will the important constitutional position - I would say - of the President of the Parliament have so many dictatorial privileges? In other words, the President of the Parliament maintains a party army, a former President of the Parliament maintains a party army. I would like to end by pointing out that a number of directions and what we have called for in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure are in the right direction. Our'residence' means, firstly, asbestos, and secondly, I have to point out something that other Members might not know about, that the parties have been informed literally at the foot. I mean, our committee met at 10:00 in the morning. We, unfortunately, have no Vice-President who is entitled to it as a third party - I don't know about the other parties - were informed at noon on the day of the previous day before the committee met. So that is not something, which is ethically right, to be informed of so many important things, so many important changes in the Rules of Procedure at the last minute. So this is the meaning of the 'partners' of ours. These changes - I stress once again - are in the right direction, but unfortunately they are unscrupulous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u12	I would like to make a rehabilitation in order to clarify the issue on the ground. At the meeting of the committee, what has been said - because it has also been done in the past - is that when it has come to Parliament, there will simply be the opinion of the parties without having to discuss and so on. We finally said 'no, let us say - and the reason for five minutes'. There was no proposal and it could not be done without coming to plenary even if we all agreed. Let's make it clear so that they don't harm...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u13	Madam President, with all due respect it is an area of dialogue and we can have a dialogue for half a minute. You were a witness and the rest of you were in the committee and there was a proposal like that. I didn't name who did it. However, there was the proposal 'all right, so we're done and since we all agree and there's no vote against, let's not go to plenary'. Well, it continues so the bad tradition of the New Democracy and PASOK that everything was secretly in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u14	I said that in the introduction, too. I think this has been clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u15	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute, so that I can resolve this misunderstanding first and then for everything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u16	Here, Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u17	First of all, the amendment to the Rules of Procedure comes under the code procedure. The procedure under the Rules of Procedure which we all want to serve for him is that, when there is no objection, it is not debated. That is why the proposal in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has also been made that if there is no objection to it. And the other times that the amendments were made under the code procedure, there was always a discussion on all these matters, whether they concerned an amendment of Part One of the Rules of Procedure or Part II. However, with regard to some others which have been spoken, I am opposed to them, because I do not want to dynamize the current climate in terms of the fact that we are almost all agreed on amending the Rules of Procedure. I don't like them. All I would like to stress is that as far as the subject is concerned and as far as the subject is concerned, we should all be much more careful about the behaviour of the other parties. And when I say 'all of us', I mean 'all of us'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Tragakis. Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has really been a substantial debate in the Bureau of the President of Parliament on the Rules of Procedure. I do not believe that what the President said was understood, that since they are codes, there is no need to have an extensive debate in plenary. But today, Mr President, I also have the opportunity to take a position on other issues, since there are five minutes and there has indeed been a debate on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. I have specific proposals, which I have tabled, and I will again present to you. [[At this point the Member, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, presents for the Minutes the above proposals, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the subject of Members' speaking time, it is time to make a start. The government has specific speaking time, but also the MPs have specific speaking time. We should see what we will do with the upgrading of various committees of the Greek Parliament. In addition, Mr President, as I have said, we have to establish a special agenda once a week - there has always been such a request - it is time for you to do so - for any questions which are not answered by Ministers, that is to say there is a special agenda for unanswered questions from the ministers. Let's do it now, since we didn't. Of course, my other proposal is that no Vice-President's seat be vacant in the House, because the parties are many, and the workload is great. So my proposal on the position of the next Vice-President is that it should be taken by the next party, since it is not elected by another party. But today, ladies and gentlemen, it is the day against fascism. And because we are here to discuss, Mr President, this is an opportunity, because I believe that the parliament, the constitution of the country, the Rules of Parliament are really cornerstones of the democratic culture and, you know, the thorns of evil are in prison. I will take a position on the subject of our colleague Mr Kumucaku. I will take a stand on this, because what I saw these days on the channels is a shame on all of us. Two days ago, a prominent journalist - you can see and find out - took a stand on whether the Kumucak's offense with Papaconstantinos was the same. We shall start with settling, Mr President. We put the Republic in warp. It is not possible to do that! My own proposal: anyone who dares and touches a Member, any Member of the Greek Parliament, anyone who touches him, whatever his misconduct is peculiar, cannot hide and have all of what we say 'we are looking for him' and, of course, some people who have huge responsibilities for this. I was very sorry for this worthy - I did not know him for many years - and a decent man, Mr Kumucako - a man who has never given rights - to treat anyone in this way and this gentleman may also come to the Greek Parliament, to become a MP. There must therefore be a defence of democracy through us. It is wrong to give anyone the chance to mess with the political system, especially in the last five years. Even now, after five years, we must defend at least the political system from decency, not only those who beat, but those who run every day at the perpetrator's stand. Mr President, I told you yesterday in the House, in the sitting, that these gentlemen never testify 'from where you were,' and we are tabling it. So, at some point in that country, the laws should apply. All those who come out and blame the political system on their mikes and have them, let them be honest with the political system that they blame.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u20	They testify, but they're not controlled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u21	That's what I said. So let them come in as they are controlled by the Greek MPs. But they give them north of the House every time, not only in the Constitution, but wherever MPs appear, because we too have not taken steps to protect the democratic constitution in recent years. I think I am clear about that. So I believe that today is a day that we must also see, we must protect ourselves, because at the moment we are really slaves to the bad dispositions and political dispositions of some people who have neither bottom nor top. Today is the day against fascism. Let's think about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u23	I will not use all the time, Madam President. In general, we agree on these changes, they are mature, although we think that these changes could be made more sooner for poster and number. However, in general we have no objection. Now, on the subject of the Rules of Procedure as a whole, there should certainly be a serious debate on the change of certain articles. I'm starting in Part One, of course, and I want to repeat something. We feel the obligation at least to say that. Because there are many protests that the House is turning into a House of Ministers and Parliamentary Representatives - and rightly complain to Members - I would like to say that it is not the Rules of Procedure that is to blame. This is mainly to blame for the governments that bring all the urgent and urgent bills, so that there is no time. And here's not the donkey, we hit the shamari. That's the point. Those who protest well are complaining from the current government or from yesterday's government and from yesterday's government rather than from the Rules of Procedure. Also, a serious issue is this second part, which Mr Tragakis and the President have said, that here we have a regulation that is essentially in the management of the President and that does not even know him, and that is what the House must come out of publicity. Finally, because this debate will be opened in the run-up to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the House and of the next - we do not know when - Revision of the Constitution, to note that some changes that find the light of publicity that they may be made and appear in a democratic cloak are in a completely opposite direction. We, too, are not prepared, as a Communist Party at least, in the name of the so-called resolution of the political system, to accept regulations and changes which are actually trying to strangle parties and, in particular, parties that are against the current situation. I am not saying or imputing intentions to anyone, I am simply saying what comes in the light of publicity and what is being promoted by both the Council of Europe and by the European Parliament, which appear to be democratic and, in fact, seek to break down, drown every voice, which disputes the existing system. We are not going to agree on this, and of course we want to say in advance that we are not going to submit. To clarify our position, we have no objection to these changes and in the course of the course we will table proposals for more general changes to be made to Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr. Lykoudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak briefly. We think it is a good thing that, from the very beginning of this period, Parliament's practical interest and the President has been shown in amending the Rules of Procedure and that the proposal in question is here. These amendments seek a more rational distribution of space and staff, and that is why the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and I think it has taken them as a whole as a positive one and voted in favour of them. I repeat our vote in the current procedure. I would just like to make two more general remarks. I think this is a practical interest in the second section of the Rules of Procedure. However, it is very important for all of us and for the serious, responsible, secure and orderly functioning of Parliament to be involved in the next period. After all, the President of Parliament has assured us in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that by February and March we will be in a continuous process of possible revisions. I think that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should look into the possibility of amending and recasting the Rules of Procedure, not only in order but also in fact in terms of the proper functioning of parliamentary procedures. The Members' time of participation in the debate on our legislative functions, the emergence of their essential and decisive role, the time and the way in which they intervene, the concrete and strict observance of the subject to be discussed each time by the Members who are speaking, are serious issues to be addressed, which I think have been assessed as matters for discussion by the Members of all the groups. Members have repeatedly expressed their objection - I say again - to all the parties when they see their presence in the parliamentary procedure as a 'partner' or simply a'manipulator' of the parties' leaders. And that is not our function as parliamentarians. A second point, which I think we should consider - and it is a matter of the President to take the relevant initiatives - is of particular interest, in my view, to the channel of this House. Precise regulation of the time it needs to devote to the meetings of committees or plenary sessions, the selection of meetings and, in general, the management of the whole of its operation is absolutely essential to be determined by consultation and decisions collectively and consensually. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all have several experiences of the way the channel has worked recently, and I think we need to proceed wisely, with solidarity and with the greatest possible democraticity in arrangements that concern it from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not waste all the time. The Independent Greeks, of course, are voting in favour and we support the changes in the Rules of Procedure, as proposed at the Conference of Presidents. For us, they are reasonable and self-evident, which, of course, have slowed down in the House. These changes, beyond the streamlining of operating expenses and procedures, which are money too, as is the space - beyond time - are also money, all of this should be streamlined. We all have to call together on the best and proper functioning of the House and all its activities. As a new Member - and as a party, if you like, represented by ten Members, half of whom we are in Parliament for parliamentary work, because the rest are in ministries or in other positions in the government - my point of view would be on the functioning of committees and whether we can creatively participate, control and make use of society and Parliament. We should be given sufficient time to intervene and to be flexible so that we can attend all the committees, but also have the presence imposed by the democratic institutions, and it is also the main reason why we have been voted on by the Greek people, that is to say, to be here, to control, to work for it, not to look for time to run from room to room. Special Regulations are a self-evident change. We also think that forty postmasters are a self-evident change. The space in the House must be distributed in such a way that it is more operational. I'm a new MP, I don't know. I won't interfere with earlier procedures. I have great respect for Mr Tragakis' speech and for the previous ones. I will agree with Mr. Lykoudes on the Parliament's channel. It's the image of all of us. The picture, as we know, is very important for our democracy. Sometimes the role of Parliament's channel has been violated. We would like all together to contribute, to give ideas on how Parliament's channel should function and on how time will be shared, if you wish, in committees, whether it is in Parliament or in any other procedure. Transparency is equally a very important point, on which we all need to focus. We who have been in the private sector for many years have made our statements. We all make statements and we're controlled. As parliamentarians, we are now in control, and we have to check on 'outside' for all the years before we become MPs. We all have to fill it out from now on. They're indeed publicly anchored, and that's how they should be. I shall fully agree with the previous speaker - I think it was Mr Gregorakos - who raised the issue of journalists, who are a parallel system of country governance, which is an anthropophagic. He has his own criteria, his instincts, which are inconsistent with logic many times, but they do not cease to control us and, if you like, to apologize to their audience. The public, of course, does not have the authority to check, but it should check the'subjects' of all those involved in the public, whether directly or indirectly. Why should I say if my twenty-five years...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u28	Journalists are doing 'outside'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u29	To be published, I said. As Mr. Gregorakos said,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u30	Not controlled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u31	And it's not controlled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u32	Hanging in the handkerchiefs, like us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u33	Yes, yes, I fully agree with Mr. Loverdo. As we said before, we're not enemies to anyone. But there must be a cleanness and transparency. I cannot for twenty-five years and other colleagues - who have been young in this House and have been in the private sector - have a fortune or some accounts, have a control over it, and anyone who, if you wish, criticizes us - whether justified or unjustified or not documented - to throw away or help a government or to help or supplement an opposition. We all know very well what is going on with the channels and the media. They should be checked and published. This is our position, and I would like all of us together to vote on it, so that we can go some way to the Ministry and go further.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u34	Give permission and more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u35	Yes, yes, I agree. Finally, I would like to end by simply saying that the Rules of Procedure of the House should serve democracy rather than serve interests and old-fashioned thinking and a customer state. We are all here to help and not to create a customer armies or voters or to set people up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing with your tolerance for ten seconds, Madam President. Of course I do not like populism against the MPs. I am a new Member of Parliament, but I do not like to be targeted as a person who may not offer, because it does not seem that we are all Members of Parliament, a dean of democracy. That's a very bad thing. In the end, deception to us, the MPs, will make some of us working - and I talk about myself - either back or leave politics. Someone will tell me "that's not my problem, it's yours". However, I believe that some people - and I take myself out of those things - who can offer democracy and the House, Parliament and the Hellenic Republic must remain and produce work and be useful and not guilty of any climate that is created against all the Members of Parliament, and their deception to bring democracy itself. I'm sure we'll make it, and I think we'll all figure it out together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u36	We shall proceed to the last speaker. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u37	I will not give up my time, Madam President, because I have been covered in most.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u38	You all say that, but then the appetite comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause]] We believe that the Rules of Parliament reflect the quality and importance of the legislative work, both in Part I and Part II, because there must be full cooperation between the Members and the staff of Parliament. Since today is an amendment to Part II of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which deals with many matters relating to staff employed by the House and left it without insurance or work cover, we agree. We have also stated to the committee that we want to vote on these proposed provisions. What I would just like to note at this point is that there is also the part of the Special Regulations. I do not even know whether the Special Regulations are at the moment approximate, whether we are aware of their content or not. I tried to track them down, but I didn't do much, so I abandoned her. But since the committee's intention is to incorporate the Special Regulations into Part II and incorporate them, then in this case we would make the proposal and it is right in principle... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I do not know if I should speak, Madam President, because unfortunately no one is watching me. [[Noise - protests]] I would therefore say that since the intention of the committee which has been proposed - and we have all agreed - is to incorporate these Regulations and in general terms, as proposed, I would like to make a further proposal. I would say to them to incorporate according to their general principles, because if all the special regulations, which we do not know the number, are to be a huge legislative text, whereas, if we can move on and classify general principles, it will be easy for the Members, for the staff of the Parliament and for the citizens, at the bottom, to know what they have to say. We have said from the outset that we are voting for this proposal, which is made by the President of Parliament and we want to say that we want to participate in the further process of all the parts of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, because, as I said at the outset, the quality of the legislative work and the performance depends on part I, legislative - parliamentary - and part II - on the staff of Parliament, so that the result is finally achieved. I hope, therefore, that this effort will be successful. Thank you, Madam President. Did you see, Madam President? They didn't exceed time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u40	Indeed, you kept him the time. You disproved me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u41	Madam President, I would also like to ask you to speak for two minutes on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u42	Mr Loverdo, we have said that these are the speakers and they are under parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u43	Madam President, nonetheless, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I shall ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u44	This procedure has been decided. There are no speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u45	Madam President, could I have the floor for a few minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u46	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, I would basically like to close this debate, since there is, in any case, a very broad agreement, giving some clarification and setting out a number of issues that will help us when these debates are held. Firstly, as far as the issue of 'outside' is concerned, I think we are all aware that if something is wrong with this procedure, it is that it has not been found and there has been no cover to control 'then'. I say that to be very clear. We know that this is a great weakness. On the other hand, it is right that not only the policies of the Member States be uploaded, and that every year it is done with these debates. You know very well that both journalists and publishers and all the civil servants of the public who participate in a Committee of Administration Supplies. We are talking about thousands of 'from where you come from.' We all have a sample check, apart from the Members, which is correct for everyone. The question is that we should - and this is a question of legislative initiative - have at least two more categories of'subject to', which - men and women - participate in these three powers and make publicists known. I don't want to identify, alas. But we'll have to talk about it. It is not possible for anyone to know anything and only to have a debate on Members. Secondly, there will be a very substantial debate when we bring Parliament's budget. I hope and hope that there will be a more substantial debate than ever. There are too many things we could discuss, or at least everyone could be informed of, over time. It's too much! Even old of the Members present, they do not know them or have not come into contact. There will also be a debate on questions relating to Members' finances. We will see this from all sides. Over the next few days, that is to say some time towards the end of next week, you should know that it will come to the plenary, in order to vote, the budget of the House, because it is part of the general budget of the State. The next few days will be the Committee on the Budgets of the Parliament. I am telling you about the Special Rules that what Mr Karras said is right. That is how we discussed it in committee. In other words, there will be unification of all the general principles and there will be simply some parts of them which may relate to specific activities, which will be separate. Of course, there is also the Rules of Procedure for Section 1, which has been put in place by a number of colleagues in fact. We have to make proposals here - and that is what we have agreed - a 'bad' of proposals. In other words, it is not a question of any individual colleagues, let me say - to make some proposals so that we have a 'bad' of proposals from which we will gradually begin to make and obtain the necessary consents, so that we can move forward. Finally, there is one issue which is not solved by a training centre, but in the next few months, all of us must be charged to solve it. We should meet the House, all the Members of Parliament, men and women. There were some touches from Mr. Tragakis just to give stimuli. I could speak for a long time because I am still at the stage that we are seeing, we note on all the issues mentioned as titles here. However, it is of great interest to understand what possibilities the House has to open up to society, to modern problems, to rationalise its services, to rationalise its funds, to make use of its truly worthy and excellent staff - but also to make use of in terms of parity in labour relations - and to resolve many other issues relating to both the Foundation and the Scientific Committee and in order - let us say - bodies such as the Benaki Library and the Old Parliament. We are very close to discussing this issue as well. If you remember, we had said something in the introductory, inaugural speech on their exploitation and on the use of the Library, and we said - let me say - not on investment, but on initiatives that the House should take on critical issues, helping and financial issues. That is why I say that when we discuss budgets, we will also be able to discuss them. For example, it must not be out of our horizon to give a respectable amount now to organisations, movements and institutions working uninterruptedly, working on the refugee issue on our islands and our borders, but also to other such initiatives, in addition to historical, very good, and monumental and other rehearsals, calendars, reports, etc. All of this, however, will be given the opportunity to discuss it specifically and in good preparation. I think the President will now go ahead and say the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u48	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Loverdos, I said that this procedure was agreed. The speakers were identified as well as their time. The President of Parliament has closed and is under parliamentary control. What do you want to say exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u50	I call on the Rules of Procedure of the House, Rule 118(6), which also operated by the committee, but also now by the House, in conjunction with Rule 111(3), which determines how the proceedings and discussions are being conducted in the plenary session. These, as Mr Tragakis rightly said, are carried out under the rules on code voting. But the Codex Resolution refers to a debate procedure at first and then a vote on the principle and the whole of it. The spirit and the letter of the Rules of Procedure will of course not be overturned. So in the context of the decision taken by the parties in the committee responsible, I ask you to speak and you do not have the right to remove it from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u51	I don't have the right to, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u52	As a parliamentary representative, I will use him for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u53	Give him the floor, Madam President, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u54	What exactly are you going to say, Mr Loverdos, that not everyone else has said and that you have agreed to in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure? The debate is taking place as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u55	No, no, Madam President. Perhaps you have not followed the President of Parliament and Mr Tragakis who have made special reference to the subject of the procedure. I ask you to speak, Madam President, and you have no right to say no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u56	I too, Madam President, want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u57	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u58	As a parliamentary group, we have contributed, through Mr Gregorakus to the committee, to the decisions on the changes to Part Two of the Rules of Procedure and we have a lot of thoughts, which we shall be setting up as a parliamentary group, Madam President, on the changes to Part One of the Rules of Procedure, particularly as regards our fellow Members and fellow Members, in Parliament-Govern relations. Finally, as a Group of the Democratic Alliance, we were given the opportunity to tell the President of Parliament and a very important issue, which concerns voting on drafts and drafts of laws. However, we will see this when and whenever the procedure opens, for which the President has given us a picture and a time. We also have in mind, as I imagine all colleagues in this House, the upgrading and the position of the House, as well as the position and role of the Member. Our proposals will be edited, without populism. Because, Madam President, populism empowers people with hatred, replaces reason and we are getting to look really extreme. Such an extreme phenomenon that needs to be solved quickly is yesterday's one. I am referring to what the former Minister of Public Order has said. If today's report is correct - and his complaints also concern two Members - it makes no sense to expect the informal and illegal leaks from Areios Ice through journalists from the judicial report. Nom and the former Minister has to say names now. Because it cannot let days and weeks pass by, having this heaviest complaint, which cannot be burdened by a party. In the morning I felt injustice on behalf of majority colleagues who said that one or two people cannot characterize a party. The SYRIZA colleagues are right. So that the matter does not come to the House otherwise, the former Minister must quickly say about who has made specific references so that at least in the House there is no suspicion that a person next to us can do so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second issue concerns Mr Kumucako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Loverdos, I gave you the floor for two minutes despite the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u60	That's out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u61	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u62	But finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u63	Based on this fact, it has not occurred somewhere in a dark place, but it has become afternoon at the Unknown Soldier, I take the opportunity to say, firstly, that it is incomprehensible that arrests have not yet been taken - and that the forty-five hours of the emperor - people who are now known in the Greek Peninsula have passed away. And I stress what Mr Gregorakos said: Are we going to see them as MPs at some point? We can't be all these days later and there'll be no arrests! Madam President, it is important to regulate the issues that are going on, the issues that arise in Parliament and in Parliament, but it is also important to see a number of issues that happen ten metres from the outside. Is it possible with the police here to devour us not on political issues, not on political issues, but by boiling down in their minds - from canteens to our children - and to look unreasonably at the police? Are there these orders? There is a need to protect the functioning of this House, because this refers to protecting the function of democracy and any change in the Rules of Procedure of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u64	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u65	When you were talking, Mr Colleague, the day before yesterday and you were interrupting the Bureau of Parliament, we were all saying to continue. Well, digest your nerves! We therefore say that any change must be made on the basis of logic, democracy and not populism, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u66	However, you did not speak of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u67	I have asked for the floor on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, not on the Rules of Procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u68	On the question of the Rules of Procedure, on the amended provisions and proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u69	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u70	Now you want, too, Mr Theocharis, to speak without having a right. Here, let's hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u71	I will simply speak on the rules to take account of the President's comments. The truth is, it has been too long since the Rules of Procedure changed and we welcome the fact that the change is coming. I don't remember how long it's been going to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u72	Do you have any representatives in the committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u73	We have representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u74	You've got, but you said here's something to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u75	Madam President, I have two minutes. Don't eat them for me. It's not too much! The existing regulation still has many ambiguities, needs of interpretations, but also conflicting provisions. We have all lived together - on the channel of Parliament, in fact, live in the pan-Hellenic area a few months ago - a moment of burning, one moment of ten in favor, ten in favour of passing, and the other proposal with ten in favour, eight against and two at present does not pass. If that makes sense in any country in the world, then I don't know what to say. We therefore welcome the fact that significant changes need to be made, as of course I think we all recognise that changes need to be made to our country's constitutional charter. That is why the old regulation needs to be changed too. I have three specific remarks to make, more so to take account of by the President, perhaps to prevent any changes. Article 4 provides, for the first time, for the parallel or complete or reduced exercise of the main tasks and not for the normal posting or movement process, which will be difficult to control. In other words, someone will hit a card at the Ministry of Rural Development and come here half a day or some time to help the Office of the President of the Parliament. This can't be checked. I think we can figure it out. Perhaps we should rethink whether this is a reasonable process. In Article 6 we arrange retroactively for one year private fixed-term contracts which are for emergencies. One class has to come in after the mess that we lived with the previous Bureau. However, we must not note that there is also a challenge in today's era. My last comment is on Article 5. There is a fear here that there will be a change from the window to the Civil Service Code, because there is indeed a seven-year public service provision in the public sector to be recognised, and seven years - by decision of the President of Parliament - for a private service, but there is no, as in the rest of the Public Staff Code, the total limit of seven years, and this may have to be discussed and changed by the Public Service Code. However, we must be careful not to create two-speed and earlier employees and not to create requests for change from the window through Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It would be appropriate for the President not to make such decisions, to look again at this particular issue legally, and to see whether we should be able to make it and correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u76	The debate on the proposal "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament (Part II)", FEO 51A 10-04-1997, as applicable, is hereby declared. Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u77	The proposal, therefore, 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House (Part II)' was unanimously accepted in principle. We are now entering the vote on the articles. Can Rule 1 of the proposal, as amended, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u78	Article 1 of the proposal, as amended, was therefore unanimously accepted. Can Article 2 of the proposal, as it stands, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u79	Article 2 of the proposal was therefore unanimously accepted. Can Article 3 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u80	Article 3 of the proposal was therefore unanimously accepted. Can Article 4 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u81	So Article 4 of the proposal was unanimously accepted. Can Article 5 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u82	So Article 5 of the proposal was unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 6 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u83	So Article 6 of the proposal was unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 7 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u84	So Article 7 of the proposal was unanimously accepted. Can Article 8 of the proposal be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u85	So Article 8 of the proposal was unanimously accepted. Does the House agree that Article 9 of the proposal is adopted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u86	So Article 9 of the proposal was unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 10 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u87	So Article 10 of the proposal was unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 11 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u88	So Article 11 of the proposal was unanimously accepted. We are entering the vote of the President-in-Office of the Council. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u89	The latent article was unanimously accepted. Consequently, the proposal 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House (Part II)' was accepted in principle and on articles unanimously. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u90	Does this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u91	The proposal 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House (Part II)'. FEC 51A 10-04-1997, as applicable, has been accepted in principle, Articles and the whole unanimously, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u93	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to make to this House: The Ministers for Environment and Energy, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economics, Development and Tourism, Foreign, Finance, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy today tabled a draft law on 9-11-2015: "Following the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, ratified by n. Regulation (EC) No 3017/2002 (A'17)’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The MPs will have two and three minutes and the ministers will have three and three minutes. The second question under number 81/3-11-2015 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, will be discussed with the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the exclusion of technological educational institutions from the Ministry's invitation to participate in the seminar entitled "Training teachers for the development and implementation of digital technologies in the teaching act". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, recently the Ministry announced the invitation from the Operational Programme "Learning Lifelong Learning" entitled "Teaching teachers for the development and implementation of digital technologies in teaching act". The call is for proposals to be submitted to be financed under the priority axiss 6, 8 and 9 of the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources, Education and Lifelong Learning. The proposals are aimed at providing integrated training for the development and application of information and communication technologies in the teaching act. In the operational programme there is a direct and formulated need for full integration and integration of information and communication technologies into curricula and day-to-day educational practice in order to develop digital skills. This call could include a number of relevant sections of the TEIs individually or in a partnership, offering high-level services. However, this invitation is addressed only to universities, depriving TEIs of the possibility to submit proposals. This exclusion leads to the conclusion that the Ministry likely considers that TEIs are not able to provide training in the specific information and communication technologies, even in skills that are not so high and do not require specific IT skills. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister, did the TEI not participate in this invitation intentionally or by mistake? In case it was deliberately done, what impact can this have on graduates from schools such as IT engineering? Does it affect their professional rights? If so, how? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mr Stile, the invitation and the 'blocking' of the TEIs was not done with any purpose. However, this invitation does not concern, as has been done in the past, the training of teachers in computers. Now it is done in the training of teachers in teaching and instruction through computers. What has been chosen is the universities and the TEIs - at this point you are right, you should write HEIs and not universities, there is always this issue, and I have not noticed it - which have sections of teaching and teaching, as in ASPATE. In other words, we are interested in having teaching and teaching courses through computers. However, this issue - and there is no exclusion of the TEIs - in the competition and in the examination of the qualifications of teachers who will pass through this programme will normally, as always, be done by TEIs and universities. So there's no question of excluding TEIs. ASEAN participates normally, such as universities and not all universities, those with classes of education, such as kindergartens, pedagogicals, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u99	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer. I would like to go a little further on my thinking and say that it would be good for the next invitation - at least there would be a commitment from you - to be able to take part in the TEI. As in previous calls made from the Ministry of Education's operational programme, the TEIs were also regularly involved. I also want to remind you - as you know, moreover - that there are universities having teaching courses, there are TEIs having IT divisions, and there could have been partnership and cooperation, because there are universities in Xanthi, in Evros, where there are corresponding teaching courses, but there are no computer departments combining these specialities. Thank you for the answer. I understand that, in future, there will be no such omission and I would like to remind you again of another question that I have tabled in relation to the translations, since the Minister for Education is here and the Minister for Education, to rethink the issue of what we call 'the three houses'. In other words, when we have two students who are in separate towns and families in their home town, there can only be the economic criterion. Look at it, because as the law is currently formulated and applies, family with a student child and very low income can get relocation, for example, from Thessaloniki to Athens or from Athens to Patras, but family with two children will not be able to. So look for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u100	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u101	I repeat what I said at the outset, that TEIs are not excluded, and where there are no universities with educational, teaching and so on, TEI synergies are not excluded. I think your timely question will be on Friday. I searched her today to answer a whole question, unless you withdrew her. Look - the Minister will say at some point - but with the translations we will make a comprehensive arrangement that will reconsider this issue, because there are various other problems, which, as you can see, are not changed by ministerial decisions and we said not to change by ministerial decisions, so on a case-by-case basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. Now we will discuss the third with number 53/29-10-2015 topical question of the First Circuit of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the country's insurance system. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr. Georgios Katrugalos. Come on, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u103	Thank you. Minister, I do not think anyone will disagree that insurance is a problem that has huge national, social and economic implications, one of the most serious, perhaps the most serious issue we have to deal with as a country and not just as a government. This given, Minister, is reasonable for there to be a great deal of anxiety among the insured, especially at younger ages, and I would also say a little more than just anxiety, but also disappointment at these ages, but also for the retired, because the landscape is extremely blurred. And I'm explaining. Madam President, Prime Minister Tsipras, having asked the debate of the political leaders beforehand, had said - I read from his reasons - that the tenacity of lenders was to save 2.5% of GDP by reducing pensions. Any savings, said the Prime Minister, goes to the restructuring of the insurance funds. He tortured our pension. We have left them open to find their equivalents and they will find their equivalents, said Mr Tsipras. We have a plan, said Mr. Tsipras, to protect the weak. And then what happened? Unfortunately, Minister, in recent weeks, over the last few weeks, one or two months that have passed, we have a bar of statements, which are mutually mutually shared, the presentation of a conclusion - you have had the initiative to make, set up and appoint a committee of experts - and the passage from the age of populism to SYRIZA, which you have set everything in the IGC, from the thirteenth pension to the increase in pensions, everything, in a neoliberal model proposed by the committee, and then you have raised up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance to explain and speak with the Minister. Minister, I have too many points in front of me. From the 7th of October, where from the Step of the House - and I have your programme statements - you assured us that the conclusion of the committee will be made public, and then a dialogue will follow, we had Mr. Petersburg to declare the exceptional contribution on 18 October to the MEGA and the other day the Ministry of Labour to disprove Mr. Petropoulos. You yourself were talking about the abolition of supplementary pensions by means of a merger of the main and subsidiary, i.e. the complete leveling and abolition of supplementary pensions, in order to avoid the zero deficit clause. And the next day we had Mr. Tsipras' distance from the committee's conclusion. Last, not to mention everything, it is on November 5 - just the day before - the leak that pension will be linked to age. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister: today we have 9 November. When will the government present its own proposal? Because the only dialogue we have now is dialogue through the channels. I will say this, Madam President, and I shall end. I made a letter to Mr Maniot, President of the Committee on Social Affairs, who is here, calling for a meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, so that there, Minister, you can present us with the main axes. I know that in the timely question you cannot say too much. At least tell us when we will have your own plan, which - apparently - does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u104	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. It's a little time for that topic, of course, but try.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u105	Madam President, I feel that it is not the subject of parliamentary scrutiny that has been raised by the question. Because, as you know, in parliamentary scrutiny, legislative power controls its executive in its actions or omissions. This question essentially asks the government how it will exercise its legislative power. However, in order not to appear to be avoiding the substance, I will repeat things that are well known, namely that public dialogue has already begun. This was the result of a committee of experts, which is obviously not a governmental position, but is a finding of technocrats, which includes opinions put forward from a technocratic and not political point of view, before the public. In the context of public dialogue, the State Secretary and I have met a large number of bodies, associations and federations, the ADEDY in this respect. There has already been a joint meeting of the relevant inter-ministerial bodies, the CIS and the CIS, which has reiterated the government position on the intention of not implementing the Memorandum of Understanding as such - precisely because they are a neoliberal programme which does not meet our own proposals - but as a general equivalent to replace them with an overall reform of the insurance system, which respects the public redistributive social security and provides uniform rules for both contributions and benefits. In November this bill will come to the national delegation and we will have the opportunity to discuss it in detail. In conclusion, I should like to say that it is a national issue. You know that there is a serious responsibility in the old-party system for the distorting organisation of the insurance system and for the way it managed its finances with years of mismanagement and obviously the impairment of 12 billion in the PSI of the funds reserves. It is now time, not just to look at the budgetary aspect, not just to apply the Memorandum of Understanding, which have been effectively tested for five years and have failed, not to bring about a eleventh reduction in pensions that pensioners do not tolerate, but to set principles for a rational, fair reorganisation of the social security system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u106	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u107	Minister, you have tried as a law-abiding lawman to escape through the legal way. The government is currently in control of its actions and omissions, not whether or not to legislate and when. I'll tell you about the actions after. I'm talking about omissions. You said there was a dialogue. What is this dialogue? I, too, welcome in good faith that informal meetings or official meetings of the Ministry's political leadership with actors such as ADEDY are one of the forms of institutional dialogue. But what are the other forms? The Ministerial Council is not a dialogue. It is an institutional function which must of course be in existence, but it is not a dialogue. The other parties, particularly the general public, do not know, Minister, how the dialogue has begun. The dialogue begins with a conclusion or starts with a government which has the responsibility of its words and actions and says 'that's what I want to do'. I may take the finding as your suggestion, but first the Prime Minister and then you have kept your distance. I've been watching you and half of the discovery you've adopted, then you've changed it. So you're being checked, Minister, for that. We're already on 9 November. You have a limit at the end of November, which you have then put to Mr Moscovisi - and not just - and today you tell us that you will bring legislation at the end of November. So when, Madam President, for example, will the debate be held in the House? By depositing the bill? Minister, do you intend to formally call on a number of dialogue circles? Do you intend to have a first debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, as we have asked? I don't know what you're going to do. I've heard a lot of things. It's not time for that, because I can say so much. I'll say two - three things you did, not anyone else, you. We have for the first time abolished the pension thresholds for those who have not completed the sixty-seventh year of their age. There you may take a man who is sixty-two years old today and is in heavy and unhealthy and because at the moment you do not have that limit and you have abolished it, he will receive a pension of 250 euros, that you have reduced the pension threshold. The CSCE from '16 to '19 is abolished. What's all this, Minister? Is that what Mr. Tsipras said he had a plan for? In any case, it is clear that he has no plan. Whatever you decide on the conclusion or not, bring it to the public, to God, so that people know where the insurance is going. It's not simple and it's not another piece of legislation. It is a top law, Madam President, and, before it is tabled, there should be adequate dialogue and consultation, even on the Internet. I am not saying 'yes' because the Internet is very important. When will you raise a draft of this law? I am waiting, Minister, for some answers so that as many days as we are left to us, at least it becomes clear to the world where we are going, because if you are seeking consensus on this big national issue, the only way to reach agreement would be your proposals and on your proposals the position of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u108	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u109	As I have already said in other places in the House, what has so far come as a legislative proposal from the Ministry is a mere obligation to fulfil prerequisites which you have voted on in the last memorandum. It is precisely because we are not at all satisfied with these proposals, nor with the other proposals contained in the memorandum as individual obligations, which is why we have proposed - and it has been accepted on the other hand - that we put forward a comprehensive proposal for reform of the insurance sector which is of a general nature. This is precisely what our own policy is about to make a difference to the policies that have been pursued over the last five years. As a matter of fact, there is the big budgetary problem, the great deficit in the insurance funds. I have already referred to the reasons. I have said, however, that insurance is not, of course, a financial issue. It's a matter of social justice. That is why we have to deal with it as a whole with a reform that does not come from outside and which we will simply translate, but a reform that has our own national origin. That is why a committee of experts was set up, as is the case in all the countries that are starting a reform. Obviously, it is not the Government's position that the technical proposal of this committee, from which I and other members of the government have been differentiated as to what should be differentiated. This is, however, the technical substrate for the relevant public dialogue. We must bear in mind that at a time of negotiation, in which, alongside the exercise of the government's legislative initiative, we also have to respect commitments made by wider political strata, more than one wing in this House, an important element is the strengthening of our negotiating speech towards the partners. That is why the necessary quantification of the elements necessary for a reform and the International Labour Organisation has been invited. And the reason why we have so far not talked about specific figures is because, with the help of both the International Labour Organisation and the technical assistance we have asked for from other partners and states such as Sweden, not just from institutions, we are trying to ensure that this proposal is fully in line with the general principles that I have just said. So, as I have said many times, the duty - in fact in forty days after the election - has been undertaken to carry out a task that the political system has been unable to carry out forty years. We can't control for delays. We intend to bring it to fruition, precisely because it is a national matter. And that is why I call on the whole of the National Representation to deal with this with the seriousness of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u110	Now we will discuss the fourth question by number 78/3-11-2015, first question by the MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, to the Minister for Environment and Energy, on the completion of the hybrid energy project Ikaria and the Gemelia road - foregora - foregora - foreground. The Minister will answer Mr. Skourletis. You have the floor, Mr. Tassos, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Madam President. It is known that renewable energy sources cannot meet the whole of a country's energy needs. They can, however, also in isolated and small areas such as the islands, play a very important role and cover almost all of the energy needs. This, of course, goes beyond the various technical problems which have to do with the storage and controlled distribution of energy and, of course, overcoming the most fundamental problem that exists, that everything that is done in capitalism is done with the logic of profit. Nevertheless, PPC did an important hybrid project in Ikaria, plus the way it takes to complete this project, with a total power of around 6.8-6.9 megawatts, which covers almost 85% of the energy needs of Ikaria, which is of the order of 8 megawatts per year. And it is a combination project for water supply and solar energy and as I said, it will largely meet the needs of the island in electricity. However, even though 85% of the work started in June 2009 has been completed, the project has stopped. The funding needed to complete the project is EUR 3 to EUR 4 million and has already been spent over EUR 40 million, which means, in fact, that the vast part of the project has been completed. The question, of course, is why this work is not completed, and it has remained so little to complete. Also, there is a problem with regard to the damage that can be caused by the semi-final construction of the road connecting Upper to Lower Prospera, which is also the backbone in the whole project. On this semi-finished road already in the early rains, serious damage has been caused and high is the risk of extensive disasters - both material and not just - by the coming of winter on the abovementioned roads. Despite the assurances of PPC's Administration - RENEWABLES S.A., which were given at a meeting on the spot to continue the work with the participation of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the project has stopped, creating concern and anxiety among the inhabitants for the consequences of its failure to complete in conjunction with the privatisation path of PPC and energy in general. And one really wonders: is the goal ultimately to be given to individuals? Because there is already a private person who has a small wind park of 600 MW and who has really enriched. In other words, is this the objective ultimately to be given to individuals? Of course the mayor has sent a letter to the Ministry and also to the Prime Minister from 7-11-2015 on the status of the project. So we ask the Minister: why have the work of completing the municipal road and the work of the project stopped? What measures does the government intend to take to relaunch work, to prevent the risks posed by the incomplete rural road to the lives and property of the inhabitants by any flooding phenomena? Is there any provision for the disposal of any additional resources that may arise due to disasters in the semi-finished work of possible weather and, more generally, for almost a year?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tassos, first of all, I am pleased to see that you are discovering the value of projects for renewable sources even in the context of capitalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u114	We never questioned their value.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u115	In any case, I would like to tell you that for our Government it is a priority to promote such projects. You remember when we discussed the programming statements that we were detailed in detail. One area in which these projects must be developed is our islands. Many of these have all the conditions to be autonomous energy. In fact, there is a whole design of "PPC - RENEWABLES S.A." with the advice and special role of the Renewable Energy Centre. Very soon we will be able to present a detailed design and programming on these issues. The work you are referring to is a flagship work and the first ones that have been done in our country. This project has reached a level of construction at about 85%. It stopped, as you know, before we took over, and for reasons not related to the responsibilities of either the present administration of "PPC - RENEWABLES S.A." nor of course the Government. The windy part of the project has been built in the area you mention in the region of Stavrokudoura. Both small hydroelectric power stations have been built, in the foreground and in the lower foreground, as well as the upper tank and most of the lower tank. It's also started a test operation. There is also the new municipal road of 7.2 km, which has also been built by 80%. The information and planning we have is that the project will be completed by the end of 2016 and will be restarted. I can assure you that it is an absolute and clear commitment of the Government and the respective company, PPC - ANNOUNCEMENTS S.A. Of course, the problems that have arisen were related to previous contractors. The total project has exceeded EUR 40 million, reaching 42.7 million. It shouldn't be that much. Importance I think it has to work, precisely because it is a complex pilot project of hybrid technology and you can be sure that it will be completed by the end of 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u117	Minister, we never questioned the value of renewable energy, never. What we questioned and questioned is how they are done. These projects related to renewable energy are also being made with the aim of profit. That's our objection. We say that these projects should be carried out in order to meet energy needs. Because energy needs are a very powerful area of private sector profitability, which is why they are one of the fillets, along with health and education, which the private sector wants to put foot and arm. So that is what we want to ensure, that these projects are done in order to meet the energy needs, that the world does not pay for superfluous amounts and that these projects are not only done and when the various contractors decide to complete it. I don't know if that's true, but as far as I've been informed, a private company has now taken over the project. While before the work PPC controlled, which of course also has know-how and experience and is known to be able to do good works, now, then, this work has been given. And even a name has been mentioned, Verroopopoulos, a political engineer, who controls the construction of the project. In other words, we want to ensure, on the one hand, that this work is completed, on the other hand that it will be done within PPC, with PPC controlling the completion of the project and not becoming another area of profitability for the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u119	First of all, I do not know where the thoughts or information you have about PPC's planning to sell this project are at the moment. There's no such thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u120	I didn't say he was thinking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u121	You mentioned it. You say 'what it is'. I don't know where it sounds and where you go and you hear that. The work in no way...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u122	Has he taken over a private company to control the project?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u123	What do you mean? The completion of the project?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u124	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u125	Workers. No, he hasn't. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u126	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u127	And not just that. I am telling you, in fact, because this will be the first project on the basis of which others will follow, that it is currently a particular subject of processing the first energy sale contract from this particular project, namely, this project is a pilot project. But I will tell you, for your information, that I had a very interesting meeting with the Cyclades Chamber about ten days ago, where there came a proposal from the Chamber, which has about seventeen thousand professionals in the Cyclades, to have such projects - and indeed with more modern technology - on four islands. In addition to the municipality's participation, the funding programme provides for private funds. It's not bad to do that. It is not at all wrong at the moment to find forms of participation such as that which in a rapidly safe way lead to the energy self-sufficiency of our islands, given that today, as you know, diesel or oil-based stations, fuel oil, which are also polluting, and which are expensive, so that we all pay it in total on invoices, because, as you know, the cost is summed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u128	So private capital isn't interested in profit?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u129	Don't give up on that. We talked about involving the local society. Of course these may be advanced for your own processes, but I think there are other forms of ownership. There is also the private and the public, and there is the cooperative, so we can encourage such examples. However, be sure that this unit is not sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second question will be discussed under number 84/3-11-2015 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, on measures to reduce the energy costs of the country's industries and craft industries. Mr. Bukokouros has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u131	Minister, I come from a constituency, that of Magnesia, which has been a time centre for metal, and particularly for the Volos region. Even today, when we have been in deindustrial deindustrialisation seasons, in the last few years in Volos and Almyros of Magnesia, there have been two major steelworks, a multitude of smaller metal industries and craft industries. You will know, Minister, from the studies carried out by the largest strategic consultants in the world, that the Greek industry today and especially the energy-intensive industries, since this is mainly my timely question, they pay one of the most expensive energy costs in Europe and in the world as well. I will repeat - I am sure you know them - that today, while Greece, the Greek industry, pays MWh 57 euros, competitive Italy pays it 52 euros, Germany and Spain 48 euros. (PS) If we leave Europe, the Canadian energy industry pays 31 euros for MWh and if we go from Asia to the Arab Peninsula in particular, the industries pay the electricity of 20 euros there. You realise, Minister, that all these industries operate in a globalised environment and because of their high current the Greek industries become uncompetitive. All I have to say is that we've lost a large share of export in recent years. The Greek share of exports of steel has fallen to just 3.3%, while other European countries, such as Italy, own 47.5%, Spain 36.3% and Portugal 16.9%. This whole sector has been asking for some measures in the last two years, which have been dramatically delayed. Last summer's economic developments have come... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u132	You'll have more time in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u133	Yes, but I would like to ask the questions so that the Minister can answer them. The capital controls came which - if you like - created greater obstacles even to the supply of raw materials. In the two major steelworks in our region, we had staff availability for a long time. It is a sector that many can offer to the national economy, GDP and exports. So I ask the government: is the multi-stakeholder measure which has been constantly being discussed over the last two years and which has been infinitely implemented? Is there any implementing ministerial decision coming right away? It's the most basic measure. In my dentistry, I may have the opportunity to propose some other measures, but I would like something specific, Minister, because in the last two years, without being solely responsible for you, we have been constantly in the discussions and in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u134	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u135	Thank you. First of all, I am pleased that you have not taken responsibility for the whole of the last two years. This is a advance, because we have heard a lot here during the debates in the House. Watch out. When you asked the question, you referred to a study by Roland Berger and submitted some information on the cost of electricity in Greece. Even on the basis of the elements of this study, the cost of EUR 62, as the study says, per MWh, of course, compared to the EUR 54 per hour for Germany per MWh, but less than the EUR 75 per day in Italy or too close to the EUR 60 per year in Spain. But be careful. This study did not incorporate into the various specific reductions that have been made over the entire period, specific reductions which have to be made at the moment, and the costs of pollutants, the compensatory measures that exist for the costs of pollutants and the specific tariffs that have been incurred. Of course, I would remind you that so far, until the days we speak, 20% of industrial tariffs have been deducted. From there on, there are also elements, which would be good to see, which relate to the second half of 2014 of EUROSTAT, where industrial consumers are involved with taxes and charges, especially in Greece's case on the European average. Greece is on the European average. Of course, we are talking about a range of consumption from 2,000 to 20,000 MWh. Watch out now from there and then what's going on. It is at the moment in discussion - and you know it is also in the agreement of last August - the decision on cutbacks. Very soon, therefore, it will be implemented. So if we take this measure, as well as the reduced costs of EMCDDA in industry, i.e. the former end of the RES, despite the major problems that the industries have, because the high energy costs are not the main cause of deindustrialisation, I think they are policies which, in fact, support industrial production in Greece, which has indeed shrinked. Watch out. There is the medium-sized industry, there are the very large energy consumers, we need to build such a mix of measures to protect those companies which are helping the export-oriented employment that are modern, which can be stopped and do not generally have a policy of subsidies, when there are even a need to reduce tariffs at home.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u136	Mr Christos Boukokouros has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u137	Minister, in the evidence we may disagree or agree, it can be changed. What I would like to remind you is that the Energy Union set up by all these energy-intensive industries, it considers that, in order to become competitive with at least European industries, MWh should go around EUR 30. Now if it is 57 in Italy, if it is 48 - because I have the information that it is 48 in Germany and Spain - it is not very important. We're talking about a big difference, about a big strip. I am keeping what you said that the intermittent will immediately be applied, because it is also a prerequisite for the third memorandum, as a prerequisite for the third memorandum. But I would say that we need a combination of measures, an integrated policy. The excise duty on natural gas, for example, is also high. Intermediates in the electricity sector are also burdening the cost and a thousand other two things that can be dealt with in the context of an integrated policy. You have commented on small, medium-sized and large consumers. I would say that for the big industry, Minister, there is no ideological obstacle to your government as well. You know better than me that this is a measure that both employers and workers in the heavy industry are asking for, because they themselves understand that the industries and the range of unemployment cannot be competitive with such circumstances. Therefore, I do not think there is any ideological question that we are favouring big producers or not. Minister, I think that the political world cannot be unilaterally with either the employer or the worker. We must be with industry, because without industry and without crafts, there is neither an employer nor an employee. I think it is an obligation for all governments and the present one with which we are debating this time to create the conditions for re-competitive Greek industry and especially for such a dynamic industry, such as the metal and steel industries. We have no reason. This is all costing, according to the studies of stakeholders, as a whole, about 180 million. I am aware - and I would say that this is not official information - that you intend to take a package of measures, including cut-offs, which, as a total cost, will be around EUR 60 million. I do not know whether this will solve the problem and whether we will be discussing it again from the new year and how much the Greek industries will regain their competitiveness. Because that is what I think, Minister, it must be the case for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u138	Mr Panos Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u139	When I spoke before how we are finally going to shape policy on breakaway, I did not refer to the workers. The workers are where they are and in any case suffer what they exist and we recognise that they are working under very difficult conditions and with little pay. I am referring to those industrial consumers, ultimately not favouring very few people. For example, because you mentioned before EBIKEN, we are in contact with EBIKEN and many of the views I am telling you right now share them, because to the industrial consumers themselves you realise that the map is not uniform. Secondly, you referred to natural gas. The problem with Greece and the penetration of natural gas is that it was used more to produce electricity than direct combustion and that is a distortion, which we all pay at the end of the day to energy. It's not just the matter of intercession. There are the so-called IPOs, the certificates of availability, and that's what we're talking about. So, at the moment, you know that there is a concern to base industry on our place. What I would say is that it pays right now is the abandonment of decades, because it is not only enough to take such measures, there also need to be sectoral policies, a forgotten concept that was not there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u140	There is a time commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u141	The theory that in general the invisible forces of the market will solve everything by themselves does not help. There needs to be a central planning within this general centralised support planning, to come the private sector, which, on equal terms, competes within the globalised market. Finally, I want to say to you this: last week we voted on a draft law on energy savings. There will therefore be checks on whether large companies implement energy-saving measures. This is not only about waste of energy but also about reducing operating costs in the energy field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u142	You didn't tell me when to interrupt you didn't tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. We enter the third with number 82/3-11-2015 topical question from the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the criminalisation of students' racing mobilisations. In Mr Gioka's timely question, the Minister of Friends will answer. Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is not the first time that, as a JRC Parliamentary Group, we have tabled a topical question with this specific content, namely the question of criminalisation and threats to pupils, of racing movements that are taking place and organising, criminalisation and threats, on the basis of the 1999 Reaction Act, which I would remind you that the PASOK Government has adopted and ratified at that time. Since then, this act of legislation has been exploited hundreds of times in order to threaten students, blackmail, even dragging into the courts, for fighting, claiming, in the forms of struggle they collectively and organizedly decide. We have tabled dozens of corresponding questions to all Ministers and previous governments, to the New Democracy and to the PASOK, and now we are tabling to you. And that's all he says. We are asking ourselves why there are new cases of criminalisation, based on this legislative act. In recent student mobilisations, which have taken place and are carried out lately, due to the large gaps, shortcomings, problems faced by schools, pupils, teachers, parents, have been exploited by this act of legislative content. There were threats in a more characteristic case, the document sent by the Prosecutors of Primary Thessaloniki to the secondary education addresses and even called for this to be disclosed to directors, teachers and associations of parents and guardians, and which - listen, listen - said: "The school directors and other teachers must intervene with the students to understand that their behaviour is a criminal act which is being persecuted and punished by sentence from five to six years". Threat to fourteen-year-old, fifteen-year-old and sixteen-year-old children. The document also states that the parents of the students must be informed by the parents’ associations, that if they fail to prevent their children from such actions, they may be charged with neglecting child supervision. It is therefore clear that this reactive, disgusting practice, which refers to other times, must be brought to an end and must be brought to an end immediately, through the abolition of the act of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u145	The Minister, Mr. Friend, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u146	Mr Gioka, I do not disagree with you that the act of legislation which is 'due to the smooth functioning of schools' - which is what is called - was ratified by Mr Giokas. 2811/2000, leading minor pupils and students before criminal justice, through particularly psycho-corruption procedures, without children having been illegal, just because they claim their rights democratically and racing. You know, the device originally applied only in extreme cases of danger or damage. The situation created by the imposition of the catastrophic policies of the Memorandums in schools has in principle caused reactions, justified as a rule, which have been dealt with by the governments of PASOK and New Democracy. It is obvious that we have complete disagreement with the function of what one would call a 'learning court' and we are soon ready, with regulation that we will bring here to the House, to abolish this infamous - nobody would say - an act of the legislative content of the'separate name'. General criminal law exists in general criminal law. But here at school, we have something different. We have relations within education and, in general, school reality which cannot be dealt with on the basis of repression and criminal law. He needs dialogue. We need the mobilisation of the pupils to claim, to resolve their problems in a peaceful way and without acts of violence, to be dealt with in dialogue, to convince me and - if you will - with understanding of these mobilisations. We believe that the mobilisations that are taking place - since they cause problems of lost hours - should be supplemented by these hours. There's an already n regulation. The most important thing - in my opinion - is the agreement that must be reached between all actors in the school community, parents, students, teachers, teachers, in order to agree to supplementation, to decide how to fill the hours lost by teaching. It is our firm conviction that the struggle is a lesson too. This obviously does not mean that one should not take into account the need to operate education through its main character, which is the cultural character. I would say that the fight of pupils and pupils for public, free, universal education in a democratic school, in a school that is part of a development course in our country, in a school - aspiring to the threats of racism and Naziism today in our society, and particularly in the field of education, a school with respect for the free time and diversity of children, must be a struggle for the whole of society. Otherwise, it is obvious that this society cannot come out of the crisis if it creates a dispute, if it confronts with authoritarianism the logical problems of a generation that sees daily through the reality of leaving its future.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u148	Minister, the main question of the timely question remains. You mentioned the intention of the Ministry and the Government to abolish the act of legislation. When? And we say that, because you are already filling out as a government ten months in the country's governance. Let's go to the 11th month. The legislative act has also been denounced by you as SYRIZA - and rightly so - before becoming a government. However, you now fill 11 months in the government, and the act of legislation remains with recent documents sent to addresses, managers and associations of parents and guardians there is a new wave of terrorism. On 06-10-2015, the Prosecutor's Office of Thessaloniki sent this document and similarly exist throughout the country. So when? That's the question. Bring bills behind each other with fast track procedures that implement tough measures. So when will the act of legislation be abolished? There are bills and now, in the next period. I think you can comfortably do it with an arrangement. I think that there is no question of it being not related to the bill, but there are so many and so many regulations which are irrelevant to legislation that are adopted and, indeed, are regulations which are at the expense of the people. You can therefore, with a regulation directly or by an amendment to abolish this dreadful act of legislation, in order not to blackmail 15-year-old and 16-year-old children, not to drag their families into court and not to stigmatize their families and their parents to neglect the supervision of minors. And since you mentioned this, the reality and experience shows that, in fact, this act of legislation has never been applied in extreme cases of intervention by extraterritorials and others. In any case, there is the legislative framework in such cases to comply with a number of laws. The Act of Legislative content and the'school courtesy' set up in previous years concerned pioneers, school trade unionists who took the lead, struggling, claiming their rights. That is where the legislative act was applied. That is why it should be repealed. A splendid field of glory, then! The Government must vote for the House to abolish it, otherwise it will be co-responsible together with the previous governments to maintain a situation. But you know, I tell you, that there are bills - as far as I know there is a bill from the Ministry of Justice that has been consulted - and if you do not bring it, we will bring it as an amendment to abolish this act of legislation and you will also be called upon to place it in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u149	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u150	We agree, Mr. Gioka. We're not across the street, we're together on this subject. It is clear that direct legislative initiatives on education to be undertaken by the government will also include the abolition of this rule. However, we want more than just the abolition of regulation. We want to restore a democratic climate in schools, a climate of understanding between students, teachers and parents, through the operation of school councils.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u151	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u152	We are in agreement with the Citizens' Counselor, which includes the Children's Counselor, so that there will be a reform of the overall framework for the operation of the school communities more democratic, to encourage more self-energy, cooperation, democratic education of children, through forms of participation, more responsible for the state to be to children and more responsible for the problems they face. So it's not just a regulation that abolishes a non-democratic provision, which I called it a "civil quality" and everyone understands the proportions, but even more so, we want to reform the internal climate and institutional framework of school life.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u153	Let's start over here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The first, with number 73/3-11-2015, top-level question of the first cycle of the Piraeus Parliamentary I, the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Helen Stamatakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the delays of the tram projects in Piraeus will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The first, with number 74/311-2015, topical question from the MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Papaliou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the coverage of the transport costs by public service contract and PSAL students will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-09-S1-commons.u155	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.28 minutes the sitting for the next Wednesday, November 11, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work in accordance with the agenda.
