ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, National Defence, Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, and the Deputy Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Foreign, Economic and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity have tabled a draft law on 15-6-2015: ‘Resolution of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the cooperation and activities of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the Hellenic Republic’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Panayota Dritselli, to read out the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u2	SYRIZA MP Andreas Michailides submits a report to the Ministry of Finance that the Agricultural Cooperative of Esperoculture Chios seeks to change the taxation and the calculation of HISVIA for the land of citrus crops situated in the traditional settlement of Kampos Chios, which are taxed as land, while they cannot be built, divided or transferred, since they are land of less than eight acres. SYRIZA MEP Ms Olga Gerovasili submits a petition to the Ministry of Health, according to which a citizen who received the pension and benefits of grievance - quadruple by the Department of Social Welfare of Artas, due to the carelessness of the services, owes the reimbursement of a large sum of money unduly paid. SYRIZA MP Andreas Michaelides submits a report to the Ministry of Health, in which the Director of the Centre for Health of the Ministry of Cyrus calls for the operational needs of the agricultural doctors of Chios and for the provision of increased incentives to fill vacant posts for all medical establishments in Chios and the islands of Psara and Oinousas. SYRIZA MP Mr.Jakalis Charilaos submits a report to the Ministry of Finance that the local community of Elatochori of the Municipality of Katerini in Pieria with a resolution calls for the reduction of the objective values in this local community, as these do not correspond to the real and characteristic characteristics of the region. Parliamentary of New Democracy Mr Christos Dimas reports to the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Education and Religious Affairs, according to which the President of the Centre for Training and Training of Corinthia sets out the problems faced by the Centre for the Training and Training of Corinthia (KEC) and calls for their resolution. New Democracy MP Dimitris Kyriazides submits a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, which states that there must be additional provisions of existing legislation concerning the transfer of police personnel to the health category. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Vroutsis presents a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction that the Mayor of Anafis is requesting the administration of the Building Service of the Municipality of Thera. The Member of the River Mr Spyros Danellis submits a reference to the Ministries of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Health GREENPEACE's letter highlighting the need for immediate action in the process to update a Community directive on industrial pollution for the period 2020-2029, in line with technological developments and the best available techniques (BAT) for control and mitigation of pollution. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Stavros Tassos, Diamantos Manolakos and Manolis Syndrakis present a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, with which Mayor Ikaria seeks exceptional funding for the creation of a municipal home that operates free of charge and ensures a decent living for the elderly on the island. The MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis reports to the Ministry of Health that the Panhellenic Federation of Nephropaths (PON) is requesting the equipment with dialysis equipment and the replacement of existing equipment, as well as the treatment of the secondment to medical and nursing personnel of the Artificial Nephro (MTN) units of the Region of Thessaly. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou submits a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, according to which the Board of Directors of the Hersonissos Commercial Association is requesting the immediate strengthening of the capacity of the Pensions Police Department. SYRIZA MEP Ms.Akaterini Iglezi presents a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, with which the Municipality of Nea Proudidas Halkidiki seeks the removal of the vessel "ELIZABETH" with the flag of Bolivia, pointing out that the confiscated ship is located in the port of New Mudanians and is an outbreak of infection, while at the same time degrading the aesthetics of the area, which is primarily tourist destination. The Deputy Mayor of the Municipality of South Pelion notes the need to review the request for the integration of the historic village of Miles into the network of the martyr cities and villages of Greece, which were destroyed by German occupation troops in October 1943 during the Second World War. SYRIZA MP Konstantinos Dermitzakis submits a report to the Ministries of Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, with which the Lassithi Labour Centre denounces the downgraded provision of primary health in the county, due to the subsistence of hospitals to medical, nursing and administrative personnel. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Kasapidis reports to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction that the City Council of Serbia - Velvetou with a resolution calls for the re-establishment of the former Municipality of Velvetou as a Local Government Organisation (OTA) of grade 1. New Democracy MP Konstantinos Koukodimos reports to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Association of Pierre Hoteliers expresses its complete and unequivocal opposition to the planned change in the visa regime for Ukrainian citizens. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou report to the Ministries of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Production Reconstruction, Environment, Energy and Health, according to which the IIIth ELME Thessaloniki seeks the removal of asbestos from the building of the former Hijou tubing, which is located right next to the 2nd High School, the 2nd General Lychni (GEL) Polichni and the 4th Primary School of Polichni, in the area of Karatasos camp. MEP Mr Dimitrios Kammenos presents a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, according to which the National Confederacy of Disabled Persons presents a series of proposals for the disabled movement concerning benefits and institutional improvements in the transport sector. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou submits a report to the Ministries of Economic and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that the Panhellenic Association of Public Officials (PIC), the Greek Forests Association (PIC) and the Panhellenic Federation of Forestry (PES) are applying for the completion of the ‘public consultation’ for the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Travel travel within and outside the territory’. SYRIZA MP Alexandros Mikopoulou submits a report to the Ministry of Health that the Anti-Criminal of Social Welfare of the Municipality of Volos highlights the frustrating situation in which a category of disabled persons excluded from the heavy invalidity allowance has been reached due to the debts to the insurers. SYRIZA MP Michalis Kritsotakis submits a reference to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion the letter of IEK Heraklion, of the Department of Helpers of Baby Nursemen, which points out that the IEK trainers at the Preschool Education - Creation and Expression Activities were not informed about their participation in certification tests. New Democracy MP George Kasapidis reports to the Ministry of Health that problems with the functioning of the Paediatric and Mavary Clinic of the Kosani Hospital, as well as the corresponding Bodosaceous Hospital of Ptolemaida, are needed. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Stavros Tassos, Diamantos Manolakos and Manolis Syndrakis present as a reference to the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism the decision of the Chios Municipal Council, which calls for the abolition of VAT on the broadly popular consumption, the medicine, the book, the PPC, EKIDAP and OTE accounts. The MEP of the Independent Greeks Mr. Paul Haikalis submits a report to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, according to which the suspension of the pension of uninsured subcontractors of the Organisation for Agricultural Insurance (OGA) is denounced. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou submits a report to the Ministry of Finance that the Municipality of Hersonissos seeks to reduce the objective values of property in the administrative limits of the municipality. The MP of SYRIZA Mr Alexandros Mikopoulou reports to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction that the Mayor of Zagora - Moresi is requesting the aid with staff of the Zagora Police Station. The Members of SYRIZA and so on. Sia Anagnostopoulou, Maria Kanellepoulou and Vassilis Hadjilambrou file a report to the Ministry of National Defence that the Association of Officials of the Ministry of National Defence/General Military Staff (HRTH/GEA) of the Achaia Prefecture calls for the upgrading of the camp of the Technical Training Centre (KETH) of Patras. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Stagiras presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, which calls for the continuation of the program "Strength at home" through the Community's resources and sets out its proposals. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou report to the Ministry of Health the Memorandum of Hospital Doctors of the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "HIPOCRATEI", which seeks the immediate resolution of problems experienced by themselves, the other staff and the patients. MEP Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos presents a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the attached publication of the newspaper "POLOPONNISOS", published 2-6-2015, which raises the question of the proper placement and distribution of the bank seats in Patras for the harmonious coexistence of all. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou submits a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction that the Association of Workers of the Prefecture of Heraklion calls for the abolition of the personal dispute referred to in Article 29(2) of the Act. In the case of transfer and/or intra-democratic mobility, 4024/2011. The Members of SYRIZA and so on. Alexandros Meikopoulou, Danai Jeka - Kostopoulou, Kostas Delimetros, Katerina Papanatsiou and Makis Balis, present a report to the Ministry of Health, which states that the Medical Association of Magnesia presents its proposals to solve the problems that the medical industry faces in this area, as well as throughout the territory and highlights the need to modernise medical legislation. SYRIZA MP Eftathia Georgopoulos - Saltaris submits a report to the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, with an announcement highlights the building problems of the schools of Elias. The MP of the New Democracy Mr Dimitris Kyriazides presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, in which the Association of the Municipality of Lower Nerokomio seeks to address the inadequacy of the credits for the supply of firewood and to meet the individual needs of the local residents. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Bukoros presents a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism by which Mayor Volos seeks to make use of the area of "Institutional Volos" by implementing projects relating to the creation of school units, leisure and sports facilities, as well as green areas. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Stavros Tassos, Diamantos Manolakos and Manolis Synthrakis present a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, with which Mayor Ikaria seeks an exceptional financial grant to improve the island's sports facilities. Parliamentary of Independent Greeks Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the attached publication of the newspaper "The FAXIA" 12-5-2015 on the request for institutions and residents of Western Achaia to extend to the northeast (V) of the irrigation canal of the Penios dam. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Vroutsis presents a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction with AP: 392/04-06-2015 of the Mayor of Thera, pointing to the subordinatement of the Building Service of the Municipality of Thera. MP of the Greek Independents Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos submits a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the attached publication of the newspaper "AXIA" 25-4-2015, which supports approaches of foreign interests for Asteras Vuliagmenos. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Bukoros presents reports to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the demands of Mayor Volos on: The immediate utilization of the plant located in Nea Ionia and the implementation of the projects planned for the construction of work dwellings. The exchange or concession of the building of the former Magnesia Development Company by the Labour Force Employment Organisation (OAED) in the Municipality of Volos for the operation of school units - PAEL - or other related infrastructure. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning requests: The Agricultural Cooperative of Pelion and Northern Sporades on the settlement of his debts to the Greek Agricultural Bank (ATE) in liquidation, in order to remain operational and to ensure the survival of the cooperative. Mayor Volos on the concession of the park of Agios Konstantinos by the Organization of Port Volos to Volos. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning requests: The City Council of Almyros on the review of the rural land grading criteria in order to strengthen production activity and investment dynamics of the Almyros region. Mayor Volos for the construction of a regional road from the unequal node (AK) Larissa to the Gorcas region. To the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the request: Mayor Volos on the transfer of the Institute of Minors of Volos operating on the Rest Street, as it is adjacent to the intangible areas of the 3rd and 9th Municipal School of Nea Ionia, and thus presenting cases of violence and endangering minors and residents. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction related to the request: Mayor Volos for the use of the Park of Mars in Volos Magnesia, in order to be used for the benefit of the citizens. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs concerning the request: Roman Aqueduct located in Athens Street, in the position of Dodeia near Dimitriados Theatre, as due to its location, fatal accidents have occurred. To the Ministry of Health, concerning the complaint: The Vice-Social Welfare of the Municipality of Volos to exclude beneficiaries of a heavy disability allowance due to their debts to the insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. At this point, the reading of the petitions was completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 323/9-6-2015 of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karayannides to the Minister of Health on the payment of workers to the mental health structures of Drama Prefecture. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is a case that you know very well, since we have also been on the streets and on the side of workers when they were claiming jobs. You have, in fact, visited "Plydekis", one of the structures that exist in Drama, and you have a full picture of what the workers face in these structures. I believe that the problem is caused by a problem-solving financing agreement from the outset, also by a distortion of money being made hierarchically available first. However, whatever time these workers are unpaid is much smaller than in the past, which has been unpaid for up to a year, but at the moment there is an important issue, that is, there are three or four months unpaid workers. This may seem as logical now in a country that has spent five years of memoranda but for people who experience the problem it is not at all reasonable, in the sense that these workers cannot plan anything at all, remain in front of the economic, tax and any other obligations that have been hanged and in fact, for five - six years, these workers have been paid three - four times a year, that is, for them the monthly compensation is a distant dream. We should therefore have answers about what the Ministry intends to do to stabilise their compensation and end up in monthly return rather than in quarterly or quarterly terms, to see how these funding is being prioritised to these mental health structures and to know that workers in these mental health structures are doing a titanium job, because they are trying to deal with issues of people with mental and kinetic problems, which are not easy, and we are asking them to do so with patience and with strength, but also trying to deal with their own economic problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr Karayannides. Mr Andreas Xanthos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u7	My dear colleague, we do indeed have a picture of these problems in this particular area. The area of psychiatric reform and mental health services in our country is a problematic field, although very important steps have been taken in recent years, especially in the early 2000s, with the closure of several special psychiatric hospitals, the development of structures in the community and the promotion of psychiatric reform. But these steps, unfortunately, have been left. The implementation of the reform has not been completed, there have also been planning errors. The most important thing, however, is that the memorial period and the drastic cut in resources and human resources, which has defrauded these structures and made them insufficient to cope with the increased demand for psychiatric support and care at this time, which is, as we all know very well from literature, particularly increased due to the crisis and its consequences. The demands have increased, the needs have increased, the moment the public mental health system has retreated. The problem is that we also have this part of private-law legal persons, which are, as a matter of priority, those who absorb European funds over the last decade, creating a landscape of a flexible social state, working relationships which are precarious and with many delays in payments. It is impressive that two years ago, I had come to Drama, there was a problem - I think eight months ago - with the payment of a contract. Now, from what you are saying, and the agency is informing us - because there has been a check by the Labour Inspectorate - there is no payment for the last quarter plus this month, four. These are evidently phenomena with which we cannot get acquainted and have to deal with them. There is a problem in the distribution of payments. Most of these structures are co-financed by the state budget and the ESRB. Yesterday, we signed a decision to allocate a sum of EUR 5.154.955 to these structures for all of Greece. I don't know the exact amount of the Drama Prefecture structures. I imagine there will be provision for their support, so maybe some of the debts or the whole can be covered. In my opinion, however, the crucial issue is what we are doing overall with psychiatric reform and the implementation of the measures that we have committed ourselves to and to Europe. For us, the Lykurenju-Andor Pact is actually inactive. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. This has become impossible. It's now off schedules everything. What we are going to do, is to make a new negotiation of this agreement, without the previous terms binding us and through this new negotiation, we will ensure the continuation and deepening of the psychiatric reform and, in particular, its sustainable funding from both European and national resources. Therefore, we must look back at the beginning and the timetables and the operational and financial conditions. We want this system to be completed and, in this context, we are obviously interested in ensuring that workers' payments are normal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u9	It is happy that, as you said, a sum to be allocated has been signed and, therefore, to some extent, I hope that it will be resolved very briefly. The second point I would like to make and the topical question is the working framework for these PPPs. I say this because in the past year, in the past, there have been extortionary redundancies to the state by these companies, abusive redundancies, in which there must be a solution. By weakening these structures, the employer was essentially blackmailing that he would close the structure and the people who were provided with mental health services would be on the street or return back to public clinics. This thing we need to see and see in very specific terms and ways. Secondly, there is indeed a precariousness in the work of these people. At the same time, however, there is also a terrorisation - I will say this - of these people, a blackmail that if they do not get money from the Greek State, these structures will be closed down. This has been a constant practice in the past five years on the part of the employer. I also know that several structures, including part of the structures in Drama, which are part of a very specific company, are under the control of the Ministry. The Ministry has to come to the results of this investigation, because of what has been heard, it must either be verified or disproved of what has been testified to it. This must be done soon, so that workers also know their future. As you said, the Ador-Lukourenju Pact was indeed problematic and I am glad, because there is an effort and planning to proceed with a different analysis and treatment of this. Having lived close to these structures in Drama, I would like to say that even so the people who have been unleashed, who have come out of these asylums, have become very socialised in the autonomous apartments. I have seen even painting and wood carving reports of these people living in these structures. It is indeed a step that has to be taken but has been delayed and I imagine that planning will be much more regular and faster than before. But I remain in the fact - and it is important and again - that these people should know in a short time, when their monthly allowances will be settled, and what the future of these structures is, because I say again that fear of closure and of the workers being served by these structures on the road remains on the employer's side.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr Karayannides. Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u11	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u12	The Deputy Minister has the floor, Mr. Xanthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u13	I said before that what we are interested in is, firstly, not to stop caring for patients, to keep on taking care, and that is a very crucial issue. This was jeopardized by the way the violent division and the closure of special psychiatric hospitals were attempted. So this sudden death we avoided him. There is, however, another danger of regressing the security of asylum and asylum policy. We don't want that thing. We want psychiatric reform to go ahead and complete, firstly, by ensuring patient care and, of course, by safeguarding workers' rights. Because you know very well that especially in this sensitive area of mental health, it affects very much the healing relationship between the healer and the healer, the existence of a climate of work security, regularity in payment, lack of interventions, authoritarianism, arbitrariness, etc. from the point of view of employers. There have indeed been many problems and they have been repeatedly denounced in this area. There were arbitrariness, mismanagement, opacity. There have been control interventions, often with purely accounting criteria, and that is a problem. We are therefore interested in checking the quality of services and how national and European resources are managed. Obviously, it is important to emphasise the rights of patients and certainly the public mental health system must turn more towards community care and primary care. The psychiatric clinics of general hospitals must be strengthened, so that there can be an attempt to dismantle on-call, especially large psychiatric hospitals and a very important gap in the mental care of children and adolescents. Also, there is the question of sectoralization, that is, building structures and services near the patient’s residence. This is a critical aspect of psychiatric reform. It has not worked until now. Also, the increase in the responsibilities and role of sectoral committees of mental health. This is the overall framework. So we need a redesign. I conclude by saying that for us the completion of psychiatric reform and the creation of a reliable public mental health system is not only a matter of humanism or compassion towards people weak and vulnerable, such as mental patients, it is also a matter of health standards in a country that wants to belong to Europe, it is a matter of guaranteeing human rights, it is a matter of dignity and ultimately of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. We enter the development of the second under number 327/9-6-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister of Health, on the malfunctioning of the pathological clinic and the closure of the diabetic medicine at the “Mamaceo” Kozani Hospital. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Here, Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I come back with this question for the fourth time, as your predecessors have not been able to deal effectively with this matter. Of course, during this period, the problems have become so acute in the two hospitals of Kozani, the "Mamaceio" and the "Bodasakeio" and I will try to keep in mind the most basic ones, because we need to tackle the problems of the lack of medical, nursery, which also exists in these deficits, but I understand the whole country as well. I believe, however, that this is very important, that the deficiencies in the 'Mamatsiou' Clinic of Kozani were due to the fact that at this clinic the diabetic doctors, in which at least two doctors specializing in diabetes, had developed a pioneering prevention method for the treatment of diabetes, thereby having gained an international reputation - calling on doctors at international conferences - and adopting this methodology, both from the diabetes hospital in Denmark and the World Diabetes Organisation in America. Two years ago, when they invited doctors to attend this global conference, they didn't go. But why didn't they go, Minister? Because in this period, the Diabetic Medical School had been closed, and the doctors personally said to me, "Let's go do what? Let us say that we closed the Diabetic Medal, while you adopted our own method?' Just so that they would not expose the country and the institution, they kept this attitude. I'll bring it back to you, then. What are the intentions of the new political leadership for this state hospital with these state doctors, where one has now left and peculiarize, and the other is on the verge of retirement? How do you intend to deal with it so that this legacy can be revived in this state hospital and continue with it? At the same time, how do you intend to strengthen such research efforts by state doctors in state institutions, resulting in this huge added value, which is essential for the good quality of life and for our fellow citizens and for saving resources for our health system and our insurance system, so as to enable our country to exploit these positive phenomena resulting from the efforts of some state officials who have these effects? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Kasapidis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u17	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. I think it raises a time-consuming problem of good functioning and staffing of the Kozani Prefecture hospitals and wider of the region of western Macedonia. He has dealt with us as a political leadership on a number of occasions. There have been meetings with institutions and the hospital and self-government, the municipality, the district. The Minister himself has come a visit to Kosani. We have a picture of the problems. There is indeed a very limiting function in both hospitals. At the Hospital of Kosani, the functionality of the pathological clinic is marginal. In Ptolemais, it's much worse and you know that. The staff now are three permanent doctors and one assistant. We have taken care of by legislation, that there is a possibility for subsidiary doctors and other ancillary staff to remain by the end of the year, so that we do not have a leak on human resources at this time of increased demand and degraded demand, let me say, a situation - let me say - in the health system. It was a problem that the Diabetic Hospital has stopped working, from what I learned from the service for several years - I think since 2009. And surely it was a specialized service, very important, because we know that diabetes is a serious public health problem for the country. I think it is a loss for the public health system to lose structures and services specialising in this part of the population. I have to say that the first studies at this time are saying that the care of diabetic patients in our country has been particularly aggravated in recent years, especially of uninsured people, who either did not have the necessary medical coverage and others, say, health material or did not have the necessary laboratory control, so that there are reports that a large part of this population of diabetic insecure people has had problems regulating sugar and its complications have increased during the crisis. There is a need for a national policy to prevent and deal with the complications of diabetes. There are similar institutes. There is the EDPS and there is also a special committee in the Ministry responsible for these issues and recommended to the political leadership. We also want to emphasise cooperation with the General Secretariat of Public Health in this part. Obviously, the issue of the overall staffing of the two hospitals in your prefecture is our priority. In any case, we have said that the island border regions must be given special attention to the distribution of human and material resources at this time of the day. There's a serious problem with the pediatric clinics that I know alert alternately. The information I have, is that in the distribution of the nine hundred six permanent staff we are going to publish now - given by us to the AACC, the notice has gone - there are seven posts for the Kosani Hospital. Four nurses, two TEs and two TEs, a midwife, a TE radiology, radiology, and an IEU medical machine operators. There are also four permanent appointments pending from old crises now under way. We have instructed the service, to proceed with the appointments of: anestheticologist, pneumonologist, cardiologist and dentist. The problem is that these positions were announced at a very early stage, four to five years ago or more, so that they do not perhaps correspond to the current needs of hospitals. Nevertheless, it is a "injection" of human resources and certainly in the next notices and permanent and subsidiary staff to be made to the system, and care will be taken to meet the most urgent needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased, Minister, that you have, as I understand it, a deep knowledge of the health problems in Kozani, since I also know that the local bodies, which have been preoccupied by the Vice-Regional Health Officer, have repeatedly disturbed you. The Minister of Health has also visited our region. Because health issues in Kosani prefecture are probably the most serious problem we are currently facing with unemployment. It has overcome every previous one, both in one sector and in the other, the concern of the inhabitants. I would also like to welcome what you have said that you are thinking and intending to organise a national diabetes policy, since our country is the second at European level with a population suffering from this disease, and once there is an internationally recognised - I am stressing it again - work of state doctors in a state hospital to prevent this disease from being treated. You understand much better than anyone, how much more important it is for the better quality of life of our fellow citizens, how important it is for saving resources from the health system and from the insurance system, if you do so as a matter of priority, so that we can use this method again - and I stress it - which they want to adopt in America, in Europe, and in fact we have put it aside. See with great warmth, Minister, and be sure that you will also leave the seal your own and the Minister of Health on this matter. Now, with regard to the other problems that we are facing in Kosanis on health issues, as you have said, and in maternity and pediatric matters there are serious problems. These are issues that are completely irrational, Minister, since it goes to a woman to give birth to the Kozani Hospital and while the pains have caught it, they send it to Ptolemais. And because in the past we have mourned a woman like that just from such a transfer and delay, something has to be done right away. Also, there is a serious problem both in orthopedic and surgery due to deficiencies. Urgent emerges because doctors should be either in their regular duties in clinics or in the external hospitals to cover the workload there as well. Also, there is a matter with the EAW. Because of shortages of credit, many cars are decommissioned. The church is fundraising our territory to cover the damage to these vehicles. There are also all these issues on which you have been presented with specific proposals from the Region of Western Macedonia. I should like to point out one of these and ask if you have made a decision, in addition to the extension you have said to me, on the fact that Western Macedonia should be declared barren, because it is a series of beneficial consequences for the duration of the subsidiary doctors' term of office, that is to say, it will become an automatic three-year term. They have also proposed that the health infrastructure in Kosanis should be managed uniformly, given that there are multi-medical hospitals in PPC's insurance fund, which are generally in operation. These multimedical hospitals, in combination with the hospitals in our region, if they manage uniformly, will be able to cover serious gaps. It has also proposed that the Region of Western Macedonia should cover some operational expenses of doctors or nurses who would like to be appointed in notices, which should be done, in our area with rent subsidies and some other incentives. In addition, with regard to the notices and recruitments you have given us, I would like to present here to the House that seven recruitments may have been announced, but the immediate needs for the Kozani Prefecture, as we have been told by the region's officials, are twenty-five doctors permanent and ninety assistants. You understand these recruitments are a drop in the ocean. However, I recognise your mood and interest. That is why I would like with great warmth and with special care for western Macedonia, on what I have shown you to do as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, these positions are inadequate, which relate to a very small part of the overall package of recruitment of permanent staff, which we will be seeking to launch this year. We will make an effort to speed up the process. We're in touch with ASAP so that within the year a piece of at least this non-medical staff can go to hospitals. You know that the completion of notices and appointments, especially doctors' posts, is being delayed. We have called for proposals for the reform of this process and for it to be accelerated. The crucial issue here is the motives. Unfortunately, in the previous period, we have repeatedly had calls for special ancillary staff throughout Greece in such areas, indiscretions, islands, borderlines without response. The competitions came out afresh. It was very positive, in our view, that the initiative launched by the South Aegean Region, which has now been generalised - it is five or six regions that have adopted it - to provide an additional social benefit, a guaranteed benefit - let us say - to farmers or subsidiary doctors who are going to cover long-term vacant posts in these regions. We believe that will work. There seems to be a better response. We hope this will be reflected in the notices we are going to make in the next period. The need for synergy between all structures and human resources right now, I think, is obvious. We are trying to use the best way and the workers who are in primary care and the workers of the rest of the hospitals so that they do not under-evaluate the current human resources and infrastructure in the health system. We're in contact with PPC. We have already met with PPC's administration, which has raised the issue of cooperation in the health sector to cover the insured people who are too many and who are especially in some areas, such as yours who are electricity production centres and who have developed and well-managed infrastructures, we need to find a way of working together. As far as the EAFRD is concerned, it is a big issue. Its role in the emergency pre-privileged care in the country and in the effectiveness of the system is crucial. These days we have made some efforts, firstly, to strengthen the body's liquidity. Yesterday, a EUR 3,250,000 grant was signed to cover some of the current operational needs that are indeed too great, so there are difficulties in the daily lives of people working in the EKA. We also promoted the payments made by the workers during the first quarter of 2015 and in honor was recognised this by the workers and there was a suspension of the mobilisation, the commitment to work that was scheduled for today. We know, of course, that the problems remain. We're not saying we've dealt with everything. I believe, however, that it is important at the moment and that the workers in the system are doing their utmost in spite of pressure and wage and work to meet the increased needs of people. This is the crucial issue, to meet the health needs of the population with adequate and completeness, especially of the uninsured people we want at this time to facilitate their access to the health system. I conclude by saying that the subject of clinical studies and the development of research is a very crucial issue for the public health system. There can also be complementary resources for the system. We want to favour this sector, of course, by controlling it. The IFO must also play an upgraded control and development role in this effort. We have said many times that we are intent on clinical research and studies in the public health system to strengthen them, and above all on exploiting scientific potential, which really can and does innovate in this area and which our country has usually given the signal in recent years that it cannot be exploited, so that there is the well-known phenomenon of the 'brain drain' of leakage in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. The first question by MP Corfu of New Democracy Mr Stefanos Gikas will be developed to the Minister of Health regarding the lack of medical, nursing and paramedical staff at the General Hospital of Corfu. (G.N.K.)). The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the reason for our question is that the situation, which you are surely aware of, at the General Hospital of Corfu is incomprehensible. For a total of fifty - three doctors’ organic positions serve only sixty - nine, with immediate needs for forty - three doctors. There are more than seventy - seventy - two specific items - and sixty - two positions are absolutely necessary. A lot of doctor specialties do not exist in the General Hospital of Corfu, resulting in the great suffering of the citizens. Units that are whole, like an artificial kidney unit, are currently down. You answered my previous question. Unfortunately, nothing has been done so far, and I think the situation is getting worse. Generally speaking, health structures in Corfu are considered neglected. There are time-consuming responsibilities here, and I am not ashamed to say it. I would also like to note that Corfu is an island that, apart from the permanent population, has two and three and four times more people in the summer. Last year we had ten thousand imports to the General Hospital of Corfu. A lot of patients leave to the hospitals of Ioannina, Patras, Athens, Thessaloniki, because there are no necessary doctors and health services in order to be able to nurse them there, which means that it is translated into huge cost. When you bring a C130, it's a lot of money. That is why, Minister, I ask, and is it also a question for all the citizens of Corfu: of the four and a half thousand recruitments announced by the Prime Minister, who will be recruited by rapid procedures in the field of health, what and how many of these posts are your planning for the General Hospital of Corfu? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Gika. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, dear colleague, for the question. You also highlight, like other colleagues, accumulated problems concerning public health services, particularly in island and atrocious Greece. The role of Corfu Hospital I think is important, because it is an island of great tourist traffic, highly visited. And obviously it has a very crucial development role, it is of enormous development importance that there should be in an area with a great turnout of tourists with reliable public health services. We all understand that. I think this has been underestimated over time, resulting in too many of our islands, particularly in the Aegean Sea, to have tragic shortages of real human resources and at all times risk jeopardising the health and life of permanent residents, but also to expose the country to incidents involving their visitors, and, therefore, to hit a critical pillar, let us say, the national economy. There are really problems. In some sections they are very high in your hospital, as you said - rightly - in the kidney department. There are problems at the pediatric clinic than I've been informed. They are covered, from what I understood, by movements of children from primary care structures, by the Centre for Health of Lefkimnimni and by the MEDCO of Corfu. You asked what the distribution of human resources will be in the system, especially for your hospital. We only have a first part of this distribution, which is about a thousand posts. The rest of us are working on them and we believe that by the end of July, we will be able to present the whole plan with our priorities and to strengthen island, indifferent and mountainous areas and to strengthen specific sections, such as TGs, oncological sections, artificial kidney units, psychiatric clinics, ICUs and neonatal intensive care units, EKA. It is, in other words, a set of objectives that need to be addressed as a priority, in order to really emphasise the right of citizens to have reliable services at this time of health poverty and the humanitarian crisis. Since the first allocation of nine hundred six permanent staff seats, this relates to seven nurses for your own hospital, five HEAs and two SEs with special targeting in the psychiatric field and one IP pharmacist. There are also two crises pending - we have given a mandate to complete and proceed with the appointment of permanent doctors of the ESS, two pathologists and a neurosurgeon. There is also a proposal from the 6th Ministry of Labour for additional assistance with subsidiary staff and five months via the Ministry of Labour. Fourteen posts of nurses have been requested mainly from the Ministry of Labour for five months of social benefits, which will proceed in the near future. Obviously in the distribution of the remaining positions, there will be special attention to the most urgent needs in medical skills, such as those you mentioned, aware that the needs of the health system are multiples. It's over twenty or twenty-two thousand right now in total, medical, nursing and paramedical staff. A very small part of these can be covered for this year, but in this way, a signal that a course of disorganisation and revaluation of the public health system is over and we are in an effort slow, but towards upgrading and strengthening it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I agree with most of what you said, but I think that even in this first allocation, the number of seven you have for the General Hospital of Corfu, as much as the number - I think it was - for the General Hospital of Kosanis, which only needs twenty-five direct recruitments, than I have previously heard, when we only have sixty three for nurses and forty-three for doctors, is very small. I would also like to say to you and really to see it in depth, that if the General Hospital of Corfu had a haemodynamic section - which money for a haemodynamic section we can find from the European Union, from the NSRF - 65% of the stays to other hospitals would not have been. It's a huge money saving. Secondly, regarding the General Hospital of Corfu, precisely because it belongs to Corfu, it wants at least three hours to leave Corfu and go to any other hospital. You should therefore take this into account. Because in a hospital in the mainland one can go in half an hour from Carditsa to Trikala, to Larissa. But Corfu can't, Minister. So you have to look very seriously at this. Thirdly, there was earlier administration, i.e. the Ministry of the Ionian Islands, based in Corfu. The previous government, ours, has abolished it. I think - and I ask you to reconsider this as a government - that if we were to have had the opportunity there in Corfu in the Ionian Islands and in the management of the EKA, the problems would have been managed much better. We can't go to Patras for nothing. Patras with forty-five hospitals cannot give the necessary attention to Corfu. I would therefore ask that this aspect be dealt with as well. I would also like to tell you that the neonatological division, which is a generation's desire for Corfu - you have also touched it - is very fundamental. You know, it's also the poorness of EKAB. If you speak to the relevant EKAB, he will tell you that a large part of the courses are mentioned in sections of pediatric and neonalogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Gika. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I will be very brief. I think you have made quite a few good points. First of all, as far as the regional structure of the Ministry is concerned, I think there is a problem today. There are two SGUs - the 2nd SGU and the 6th SGUs - which have an vast space to control and supervise. I think that at some point we should go to a change in the administrative structure of the system, its structure and the way it is managed. That's our ambition. This is not our immediate priority. We know that there are problems and that the mandate we have given to the Directors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to have a better monitoring and monitoring of problems in their hospitals, even though I recognise that, in particular, this 6th Ministry has a very serious problem because of its enormous extent and its multiple structures. There are still problems with development, infrastructure and equipment in particular in the province, but I think that the crucial issue and the big bet at this time is to make a serious investment in human resources. That's what's mostly missing from the health system. In recent years, through European programmes, the CSFs and the ESDPs, there have been several infrastructure upgrades. Many of them, unfortunately, in hospitals in the province especially, are completely untreated today because of the lack of human resources. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] So, for every move from here and beyond in this direction, we must have a good plan to provide for their staffing and proper operation and not just the creation of infrastructure. I am referring to the haemodynamic section, which will obviously meet a very important need. Insularity is a particular case, especially in the health sector. I fully understand the distress, difficulty, suffering, precariousness and danger that people face every day on the islands when there needs to be an urgent stay. This is a very big issue and it has nothing to do with what the people of the mainland live in. That is why I think that we should not stick to the words about strengthening insularity, but with a very specific plan and with a grid of incentives - which is crucial - we aspire to the first draft of the Ministry of Health that we are going to put forward, there is a proposal, a package of incentives to strengthen the presence of human resources and, above all, doctors in the island regions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We believe that, slowly, given the difficulty of the situation, we must face up to at least the clearest needs and weaknesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Gika and Mr. Minister. Question No 1803-17-2015 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Health on the operation of the Regional Hospital of Thorakos Patras Diseases will be discussed. The Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, will answer. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we believe you are aware of the situation that has been formed at the Thorakos Patras Hospital, which is a specialized hospital. It's the only pulmonary hospital in western Greece. In fact, in 2008, it became a complete renovation, a real estate and engineering. In 2012, with the government at the time, a single legal person was formed with St. Andreas. Since then, the shrinking process of the Thorakos Hospital itself has been beginning, degrading its operation and effectively abolishing it. I must remind you here that an amendment was made at 12 noon at midnight from the previous government to abolish immediately the operation of the Thorakos Hospital, which was prevented at the last minute. We are impressed, Minister, because two months now you have not answered our question, which, at least in advance as a party, you have declared to all tons that the Thorakos Hospital is not going to be abolished, it is not going to be transported, but it will be upgraded. What we are asking you is whether these election commitments still apply today, namely the stay of Thorakos Hospital in the area that exists, its upgrading and its development. In this respect, therefore, we are very clearly asking you to explain to us, to tell us the government's plans on this very critical issue, since the association of workers there and the medical staff are talking about the need to upgrade this hospital, and its transfer to "Aghios Andreas" will cause much greater problems due to the deterioration and shrinking of beds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u33	My dear colleague, you raise a special issue. We have been discussing the problems of the health system many times, but you are raising a specific issue, which I think there is a disagreement. I personally had visited Patras during the election period, I had participated in a debate which was held on the presentation of a treatment carried out by SYRIZA Achaias on the sanitary map of the local structures and services. The recommendation then adopted the transfer of Thorakos Hospital to the newly renovated and upgraded building complex of the "St. Andreas". The picture I obtained was that today's function, where pulmonary patients are sent daily, to have laboratory and clinical support from specialists who do not exist at the Thoracian Hospital, is carried daily with the ambulances at the "Saint Andreas" Hospital, either for cardiologist examinations, CT scans, or for special laboratory tests, I think it is problematic. The idea, therefore, is that at least the majority of workers and local society agree on this and that this is to upgrade this hospital, which we obviously do not want to close and stop providing specialized pulmonary services, which have a history, since it is decades ago. We therefore believe that the jobs of the staff are guaranteed in this way, and the care of the patients will be upgraded, and in no case will this be done in the context of the implementation of a plan for closure, shrinking or abandoning public structures in the name of some Memorandum commitments. This political plan is over. We want at this time, which is difficult and critical and has an increased budgetary difficulty - we all understand it - to make the most rational use of resources and people and resources. I have the impression - and I am also assured by the 6th RCF - that the plan that exists is towards upgrading and not degrading the services that are being provided today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u35	Minister, it is clear that through the conscious choice of the previous governments, the Thorakos Hospital was undermined, with enormous shortages of qualified medical personnel, such as the cardiologists you mentioned, nurses and technical staff. However, this does not mean that there are no conditions and structures necessary to develop the hospital as a hospital for pulmonary diseases, which has been operating since 1930, Minister, so it is highly specialized. And from this point of view, at least I will recall a number of events that had taken place in the hospital from the club, where then SYRIZA MPs have declared to all tons that it will not close the Thorakos Hospital. In this respect, therefore, there is a registered will of the trade union itself and of the medical staff. On the other hand, I can't understand how you're saying it's going to be upgraded by the transfer of Thorakos Hospital when it's now 50 beds and it's going to be twenty-six. That's what's in the plan from the 6th RCF. The 50 beds of the clinic that will be carried will be twenty-six. Secondly, before earthquake the Hospital of Agios Andreas had five hundred 50 beds along with the 409 Hospital. The new "Saint Andreas" organizational chart is four hundred beds. You understand, then, that the five hundred fifty who were before, plus the fifty of the Thorakos Hospital, that is, the six hundred beds that were before, will be reduced to four hundred. The 1/3 of beds over a decade will be lost by Patras, one/3 of the hospital beds covered by these two hospitals. So, not only do we have an upgrade, but in fact we have a deterioration. This means downgrading the services to patients. This hospital covered not only the area of Patras. It was a district hospital. They also came from other regions of western Greece to have treatment and specialized services. In this respect, then, we are talking about substantial deterioration, and much more so when this process continues over your days. Which one? The pharmacy has now stopped working. The workers at the Thorakos Hospital's pharmacy were transferred to the "St. Andreas", and there is even difficulty in moving the medicines. As they inform me, we are talking about medicines for patients with cancer problems, who are treated there and need special treatment. Instead, for upgrading, we are leading to a further deterioration, to a shrinking of beds, and as such, medical and nursing staff themselves have to deal with much greater problems, and more so the patients in the area themselves have more difficulty in serving their own problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u37	Just a few words. Dear colleague, the image I have and the information and assurances from the HR is that in any case the functionality of the pulmonary clinic and the service of the pulmonary diseases in the wider region of Western Greece will be ensured.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u38	From fifty to twenty-six beds, that's half.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u39	I've been told it's forty-five that works. Thirty will be developed in the new hospital and there will be a synergy - from what I've been told - with the pathological clinic. I can also ask for more complete information, to see the details and how this plan is to be implemented, but I think the crucial issue is that there is no interruption in pulmonary care and the need to move it, obviously in other areas. That is the crucial issue. The question of property autonomy or not, I think, is a secondary one. The assurances are that it will be best served, there will be more rapid movement of patients and necessary examinations that they need to perform, but also better, more decent and upgraded hospital care during their hospitalization. We have no reason to degrade operating structures today in the health system. Our aim is to support this period, with nails and teeth, public structures throughout the country, and primary and secondary care, because we believe they serve and meet needs, at a time when the demand for public care services by the population has increased. There is no plan to shrink or cut beds, departments, workshops, hospitals, which currently operate and offer services. Just when there is a peculiar combination or collection of structures and it is estimated that this can be more effective for the world, I think it is imperative that we take this very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u41	Minister, this building was renovated and upgraded with machinery in 2008. What will these building infrastructures and facilities become, when there is a shortage of beds, when Agios Andreas, after the earthquake, will not develop in its full dimension? Instead of having a building upgraded and modernized and making sure that its function continues there, so that we do not have bed cuts, you leave it in his luck. So, what will this building, if this transfer takes place, which you say will be to upgrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u42	Do you want to add anything, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. For this building, I don't know what the prediction is. Obviously, his equipment will be exploited. Clearly. There's no doubt about it. The equipment will not be abandoned. It will be used on the new seven-seven-storey wing, which will be completed in "Agios Andreas".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u44	Will you transfer the buildings?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u45	The equipment will be transferred, the necessary infrastructure will be transferred, such as sprinkles, etc. All supporting laboratories available for pulmonary patients will be transferred. Our feeling is that the suffering and difficulty of supporting, clinical and laboratory life, which these sick people have today, because this hospital lacks very basic skills, which we cannot currently cover specifically for this hospital. We think it is reasonable to make more efficient use of this little human potential, which we currently have in the system. This is the recommendation made by the agency, by the HR, after discussion and after serious consultation with both workers and society in the wider region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much. The third with number 320/8-6-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Artemios Mathiopoulos to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Health, on "with regard to the problems created by the liberation of illegal immigrants from detention centres", will not be discussed. The fourth question under number 312-6-2015, first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Committee, Mrs. Antigonis Lyberakis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the response of the project "Check-up of the unemployed in the areas of Economic Activity with Compulsory guaranteed employment" by the Ministry of Labour's Operational Programme, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The fifth under number 330/9-6-2015 topical question for the first cycle of Parliamentary II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health, concerning the possibility of integrating the late contributions of small and medium-sized farmers into the debt arrangement of a hundred instalments, without the condition of repayment of their current insurance contributions, is not discussed due to lack of responsibility. The sixth question under number 318/8-6-2015, first question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Finance, concerning the existence and application of a contract copy relating to the remuneration and the taking-up of tasks as liquidator for the "CONTRIBUTIONAL ENVOIC BANK" by the Bank of Greece, is not discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The first under number 324/9-6-2015 topical question by Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) kouriakou to the Minister of Finance, on smuggling tobacco, is not being discussed. The second question, under number 328/9-6-2015, of the second question by MP Kilkis of the New Republic, George Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, concerning the delay in the regulation on the'red loans' of farmers in the former Agricultural Bank, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth question under number 317/8-6-2015 is the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Greek Independents, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the Contribution Agreement of EUR 9,890,500, which consists of 10 pillars and concerns the preparation of studies on the implementation of the ‘Reform Support for the Health Sector’ programme. The sixth question under number 240/19-5-2015 of the second question of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Simorellis, regarding the planned payments for the costs of medicine, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The seventh question under number 309/2-2015 of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Kastoria of the New Republic, Maria Antonios, to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of the General Hospital of Kastoria, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The eighth Question No 218/14-5-2015 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of National Defence, on the degradation and dismantling of the institution of the National Guard, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The tenth under No. 263/26-5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the transfer of the Department of Administration of the Open University of Crete from its headquarters to the Archanes of the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousias in the Municipality of Platania Nov. Chania, will not be discussed after consultation of the questioned Member and the relevant Minister. There is no question from Mr Orphanou to Mr Xydakis and two from the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Panagiotis Skourletis. The third is the 313/2-6-2015 topical question by Congressman II Piraeus of the River Mr Nikolaos Orphanou to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the creation of the Directorate for International Audiovisual Producers (Hellenic Film Commission). Mr Orphanou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. Mr. Orphane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question I am addressing you today is on the date of the first deposit of 28 May. It concerns the operation of the Directorates of International Audiovisual Producers, the Hellenic Film Commission, as provided for by the Act. 3905/2010 for the cinema. In the time that has elapsed - and that is why I mentioned the date of first statement - you have already expressed your interest, with press interviews and your intention to take a serious look at the issue, while at the same time announcing a number of key aspects of the actions you intend to put into operation. So, given your interest and your sensitivity to the subject, I think we can have a substantial debate on how and when at last and when and Greece will acquire dynamic directions of Film Commission. "Every foreign production that goes back to the country" - I use your own words - "is a small factory that lasts one to two months". I couldn't agree more. Relevant research by IOBE, which took place in 2014, after the order of the Hellenic Academy of Film, tells us how, for every millions of expenditure on filming in Greece, domestic added value is increased on average by 1.4 million. The direct effect is 350,000, 300,000 resulting from the activity of industries supplying cinematographic production with products and services, while the remaining 750,000 from the consumption of part of the extra income created and distributed to the economy, while on the employment side thirty jobs are created per million of film investment expenditure. The above figures confirm your statement. Now let's go to what you announced. You intend to provide tax incentives for shooting in Greece, while promoting the simplification of permits, decentralising the procedures and transferring responsibility to local taxes of the CAS, etc. You have already said that your colleague, Mrs Valavani, is aware and understands this and will soon tell us how and whether there will be tax reliefs of 25% to 30% for foreign production. Minister, it is certainly not a coincidence that what you announced was dealt with with scepticism by both the press and the people of the cinema. Our appreciation. It is customary for the Ministers for Culture, your colleagues before you to make the same announcements. We've heard of them. It follows from the principle that: Firstly, the selection of a new Director-General of the Cinema Centre is prerequisite for the operation of the Film Commission, which, according to the publications, has just been proposed. It is now up to the relevant address. I ask you: do we have a timetable for this process? Is there an organogram of the address? Two. The Film Commission is right to say that it is essentially a help desk, which facilitates and solves the practical problems that a film production in a foreign country may face. Do you really think that the reason why we do not have a powerful film Commission in Greece is the lack of an adequate legislative framework? Let us not fool ourselves, let us not postpone the problem with tricks. How will a new legislative framework work? The serious problem of transport on the islands, for example, or the problem of infrastructure, which, together with the nuisances of the Greek State, the inconsistency and the lack of communication between operators, municipalities and local government, operate inhibitingly, not only for foreign production but also for Greek productions. Finally, if you really think there's a legislative gap, where do you find it? These are for my prototype and I will come back to them on tax evasion in my denology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u48	Say it more comfortable. You're tolerating me, so don't be nervous. Mr Nikolaos Xydakis is the Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Orphane, thank you for the opportunity. Indeed, we need to have a debate, although I think the debate has taken place over the past few years. What remains to be done is to take concrete and targeted actions. I will speak to you very specifically, perhaps not with very specific timetables, but with some commitments for actions already under way. First of all, I would like to make it clear to you that, as far as tax and general authorisations are concerned, it cannot be the Ministry of Culture alone. Taxation is a case of the Ministry of Finance. We have made it clear from the start, and I am able to tell you, because there has been a series of interministerial meetings on the subject and you will be aware of it also by the press, I think. The Treasury is aware, it's moving on. It, of course, has its own priorities, which are urgent, such as the recently tabled minimum tax. It has a lot of work, urgently, for the Greek economy and the Greek society. It is one of the top priorities too, but I cannot assure you that. Get to the Treasury. As far as the licenses are concerned, what the Ministry of Culture can do is to facilitate the licenses in the archaeological sites, which is its responsibility. So far, the current regime is that the request is addressed to the local tax office or directorate of the Ministry and is being promoted to the Central Archaeological Council to be judged. Introducing, discussing, deciding and passing on to the Minister to sign a ministerial decision. Under normal conditions and when good deadlines are met by producers, this usually works. But sometimes it does not work, so we want to make it easier and to avoid the accumulation of labour at the top, local taxes should be able to grant authorizations for film production and, if there is a specific problem, production is a great deal, or there is a specific question, to be referred. With regard to the Film Commission, the Film Commission, to facilitate producers, according to the film law you mention, the n. 3095/2012, there is provision for Address Film Commission at the Hellenic Film Center. The truth is that four, five years after the law was passed is understood. There was also a website, which is not very up-to-date. There has been a suffering in the last one, two years at the Hellenic Film Center. There was one - let me say it - administrative instability. Now there's a new board of directors. The ministerial decision on the new Director-General has been signed, and I think we will have a work programme with the Film Commission very shortly. The Film Commission will play a coordinating role. In the inter-ministerial discussions we have first agreed that there should be regional assistance from the regional offices of the Ministry of Tourism, which has a network on the tourist use of these producers. A Film Commission is planned at the Thessaloniki International Festival, which can also be exploited. There will be assistance from all thirteen regions, which have their own interest in developing local economies and promoting their regions. These are the first steps we take. The amendment to facilitate licensing will enter the House very soon, through the multi-brand plan submitted by the Ministry of Education and for the rest there will be regular briefings to Parliament, to the House and to the public, of course, to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Mr. Orphane, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u51	I'm very pleased for your sincere concern. It is a very big issue, with great development prospects. I would just like to say to you, Mr Potamios, because, rather than waiting for the Ministry of Finance to see exactly how it is to be seen, perhaps the Ministry of Culture should also propose concrete proposals that would facilitate the attraction of foreign film producers. To give you a corresponding example in Malta, which has a great growth in the sector, if it invests 1 million euros in foreign filming, directly, within a few weeks, is returned to 20%. This means overcoming bureaucracy, an agency that works beyond the usual tangles that we know about the Greek state and, of course, an autonomy in the respective Film Commission. I mean, it's not just a help desk, a convenience factor, but it's a JEP, a producer service centre, somehow. I say this, for the sake of joke, but it actually has to work. In all countries there are, of course, Film Commission. We're talking about some locals here. I personally have participated in a campaign in the Region of Crete to build a corresponding organisation. In Japan, for example, there are a hundred and twenty local Film Commission, in Germany, there are twelve, in Italy and France, from about forty. In Greece, of course, we are still talking. We have to run. Fifty years after the Kakoyannis Zorba we are still looking at this issue. We've wasted too much time. One difficulty, I repeat, facing the Film Commission is that it will have to operate in an international culture. It cannot function with a culture of the Greek public. How will this be overcome? There's a provision in the law of Geralan. Will the provision be applied as it exists in the law of Geralan? Should the Directorate be opened, partnerships with the private sector, with the creators, with the independent producers, the artists or an additional Service be created? And how are we going to avoid the risk of having another stiff bureaucratic situation, without evaluation and simple results? Because we are talking about a body that will coordinate something that has to do with the market, no matter how much we don't probably like that word. There has been an explosion of international producers, particularly on television in recent years. I personally have visited a wide range of film studios in Ireland for seven years, open-air, with numerous benefits, directed by a huge number of skilled professionals and technicians. The unemployment indicators of the sectors in cinematographic production are overwhelming. They should convince us about the emergency combination. This thing is urgent. We're running out of these branches. But it's not just the beauty of the landscape. For we rest in the beauty of the landscape, the beaches and the ancient ones. Oh, no. It needs a clear legislative and technical framework. We must therefore overcome the statements at some point and with a timetable and specific bureaucratic and legislative arrangements to facilitate the establishment of the Film Commission. I ask you again, Minister, whether the creation of the local Film Commission will be implemented, as provided for in the German Law or in addition to another Service, and how it will be ensured that this agency operates in due course. Because, given the crisis and the inability to attract foreign investments in general, you are aware of the urgency of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Orphane, the role of the Ministry of Culture is not to legislate on taxation. There's something you don't understand here. But I repeat that we have made comprehensive proposals to the Treasury and is aware. The Ministry of Finance has heard the views of the entire film market and especially of the producers. It's the producers who do the job. Perhaps it should be understood both in this House and in the public that the State does not do the producer's work. The state doesn't make it easy for the foreigner. The state creates a simple, comprehensible and stable reception framework and from there, the one who welcomes and provides all the services to the foreign producer is a composite Greek producer, even certified. A Register of Certified Producers is therefore also made. This producer also does all the expenditure and this producer claims to be reimbursement of tax. Let that be understood. We want to make it easier for Greek producers to welcome their foreign partners and attract Greek capital. What we should also say is that since 2014 there has been a joint bilateral fund of the Hellenic Film Center with the French Film Center, which finances Greek films with foreign capital. Greek participation is minority. It is a wonderful program, which helps Greek cinema, enters Greek films and the Greek cinema has a chance to breathe. Unfortunately, I said that this administrative abstention of the last one to two years has not even allowed these, on very favourable terms, co-productions to go ahead. We are a government four to five months and we are still trying to raise the anomalies, the malfunctions, the hooks and the inertia. We've received a ruin. We're trying to build logic and self-evident. That's it. And this time credit we are already making use of it and doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Orphane. Thank you, Minister. The fourth question, with number 331/9-6-2015, is now being developed for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the payment of workers in Shipyards in Neorio, Syros. The Minister will answer Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. The problem, Minister, you know that. He's a group of polypaths. The Association of Elefsina and Neorio Shipyard has visited me. We're talking about your sensitivity. And I would ask you here to resolve the matter. I'm so sorry, Mr. Katsotis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the strikers, who have been unpaid since the beginning of the year, are being watched by the young people of Syros. They are, therefore, mobilizations, on strike, they accept solidarity almost all of the island. So they support and continue a struggle, despite the attempt made by the property to undermine it, terrorize them, frighten them, so that they retreat and start working without being paid. The company has already sent a document to the club today. It tells them that they are responsible for the shipyard losing customers, that they will only give them one 50% of the payroll in January - they are provocative, Minister - in 2015, and it invites them to go to work, so that the company can take more ships to the shipyard. Until now, we have to tell you that since the beginning of 2015, twenty-seven ships have been repaired to this shipyard. It is not too small to take into account that last year, all in 2014, sixty ships were repaired. This year the first quarter is twenty-seven. So the labour market - so to speak - is doing well. However, in six, usually, Mr. Tavoularis does not pay. And that is not a matter now. Since 1994 the Shipyard of Neorio and since 1997 that took the Shipyards of Elefsina - were sold by the governments of PASOK and New Democracy - it follows the same practice. He tries to meet other needs and deprives workers of the only means of living, which is their wages. What should these workers do? The government has a very intensified issue, the question of unpaid work. It cannot be said, for example, that there will be no tolerance to this. So, how's it going to be? The employers will be unaccompanied? Will the workers work and they won't be paid? Where did that sound? And what's got to be done about it? Shouldn't Mr Tavoularis, if anything, apply these minimum conditions and rules? The other guy's working, and he has to be paid. How will this matter be dealt with? They've had a meeting with you, Minister. I don't know what Mr. Tavularis promised there. But here his letter is challenging. It takes responsibility to the workers and tells them that they have responsibilities if the shipyard loses a clientele and from there it says that the future of the shipyard will belong to them in their hands. He says to the workers: 'Be responsible for the future of the shipyard.' He blackmails them, terrifies them to stop their struggle and of course not to be paid, but to get one 50% of the payroll in January. One issue is employment and one issue is the working conditions, Mr Minister, which, as we write in our question, are terrible. On these two issues we want your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr Panos Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, I personally had the opportunity on May 5 to meet with the club of Neorio and they informed me quite thoroughly. I have a personal picture. I would like to inform you of what has happened over the last few months about Neorio, a business that has in fact been dominating the economy of Syros. In other words, one cannot imagine the economy and society of Syros when Neorio, this historic and the largest business on the island, behaves in this way. In any case, we all understand the reflection from its operation, which has repercussions on the inhabitants of the island. From 20-4, then, as you know very well, workers are on strike and from 1-1 they have taken nothing. By the end of 2014, the Labour Inspectorate on a series of audits had filed eight monthly reports. In 2015, in the last few months, he did three checks. The first two checks were carried out while the strike was under way, precisely because it was found that there was an increase in workers there, which in fact worked as a strike mechanism. That is unacceptable. So no tolerance to detachment practices! We have then carried out checks on the contractor as well and there has been an administrative penalty of EUR 35,550 for undeclared work, for hours and for overworking. Watch out now. There was a third check at 11-6, that is, just a few days ago, and, of course, what we all know, that is, the non-payment of recruits, and the case has taken its course. In 2015, and now, the operation has ceased to consult employees. Such phenomena, I believe, are not random, but also politically appropriate. In the circumstances, which we are trying to restore step by step, some of what the previous Memorandum governments have done at the level of industrial relations, these behaviours obviously also have political feasibility and are aimed at creating a pressure on a government that is decisively defending the interests of the workers. We also know something else, which may not be the case with the immediate tasks of the Ministry of Labour, but I will do everything I can to inform the Ministry of Finance. There cannot, indeed, be jobs in Neorio - and there is also a small increase in repairs, small structures, etc. - and don't show up on these profits in business. There's something going on here, and we have evidence, complaints. We'll substantiate them and make sure we're looking for it more than you can imagine. I would like to tell you that there have been two complaints from the company so that the workers' strike can be judged illegal. Both were rejected. Furthermore, another element on health and safety issues has been that 50 controls have been carried out over the past two years. There were fines of EUR 9,663 to the contractors in February 2015, beyond what I told you. So what we can do right now. We are quite specific, decisive in hitting phenomena and undeclared work, but also making the best use of the opportunities available. We know that it is not much, but that, as you know, we are trying to get through slowly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. It can be seen, Minister, that, despite the checks you have carried out and the fines you charge for the operation, the company does not comply. So you need to see what it is that your Ministry should do, in order to further pressure the operation, so that it complies with the minimum terms and rules. It therefore prefers to pay the fines of EUR 9 000, rather than to take measures for the health and safety of workers. So it seems, that's his practice. You said that thirty, fifty checks have been made, nine thousand euros have been charged, but he prefers to pay the fines. These fines, of course, do not pay everything, go and make his objections. I don't know how much he'll pay for it in the end. So this framework seems to be not working, that it is to his advantage and that it goes beyond any difficulty, anyway, this process of the Ministry. With regard to the question of the payment of recruits, can the world not be unpaid and, in any case, what is justice doing? All right, once there was what we call 'automatic' for the non-payment of recruits, but because we live in a capitalist society, the urban governments did not want here to clash with the employer and abolish this. And so today the worker is at the mercy of every patron, every businessman who doesn't pay the jobs, put them in the pocket, and we see bankrupt businesses and busts of business. We think this is important. It is not just the issue of Youth or Elefsina. Unpaid work is on a very large scale, they say for seven hundred with eight hundred thousand workers - perhaps you too have evidence - which is unpaid today for over five to six months. But here we have to take measures. One cannot play with life, with the bread of the workers' children. What does this world have to do there? He's been fighting for two months for self-evident, getting his salary, self-evident! And yet here the businessman, whether from political point of view, as you say, or from another point of view, as he sees it, why does he see that there is a legislative framework and says: 'What will they do to me? I do not pay you, I will not suffer any consequences, so I do not give you your titles." He's not paying. So if the government really wants these minimum conditions to be implemented, it cannot take any measures to ensure that this situation does not exist with unpaid work. We are waiting for your initiatives, because, okay, the meeting you have made has helped to have a complete picture, but it must not remain there. We believe that there are other tools that the Ministry has and must take advantage of, in order to force the employer to pay directly the workers and, of course, to take action on the working conditions of the workers in order to protect their health.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u61	Mr Katsotis, since we did what we had to do, with whatever means we have, I think the road is simple from there: it is the way to justice. There is no doubt in that. And they've taken their way to justice. Now, don't expect me to tell you about the times of justice, that's not my responsibility, but it's important that we do what we have to do. I would like to remind you, since you raised the question of the self-confidence procedure, that the Christmas gift was received by these workers after the activation of the self-confidence procedure. So I think we're watching this case closely. It's a question of workers getting their money. I would like to tell you that the government, at the moment, is considering the need to create a national, public, supervisory body as a whole for the shipyard business, because it continues, despite the depreciation suffered by the industry, to be a comparative advantage of the Greek economy, which must be exploited. And to exploit, there must be a design, a plan. There is the possibility, because objectively in this Mediterranean area, in the South-East Mediterranean, Greece has experienced workers and infrastructure that can be exploited in a much better way. I repeat that we need to look at and, if they hear us, as you say, not only the workers but also the owners, we need to see whether there are cases of overpricing for specific work by contractors to make profits - some third parties, unknown contractors, who may also be persons who are interested in the business - and the company to show from zeros as little profits. These must be studied. And here everyone has to help, so we can know exactly what's going on. The yard must remain open. Workers must be paid on time. Of course, it must not only remain open, but it must also be exploited, because there are huge potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u64	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u65	As far as the single operator is concerned, we agree that it will be the single entity that can actually give impetus to the development of the shipbuilding industry in our country. However, when the restrictions imposed by the European Union on shipbuilding apply, what can you do with the single public body? The single public body in the European Union with restrictions says nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u66	The restrictions concern public shipyards, not private. There's got to be a plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u67	A single public body with the intention of Tavoularis doing nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u68	Do you want to say something, Minister, about that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u69	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three announcements to this House. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad in Saint Petersburg from 18 June 2015 until 20 June 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u71	The House approved the requested permission. The new Republic's colleague, Mrs Maria Antonio, also seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad during the period from 26 June 2015 to 30 June 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u72	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 19 June 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 329/9-6-2015 by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy Mr.Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the issues of the National Register. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 334/9-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the compensation of farmers of the Ilias Prefecture for damages suffered by their crops from the intense weather phenomena. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 335/9-6-2015 by Congressman Pireas of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the re-establishment of the Institute for Geological and Mining Research (IEME). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 293/2-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties. 3. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning recourse to the justice of television stations to the decisions of the Minister of State on the basis of which they were charged with retroactive frequency charges. We enter the debate of the ninth under number 305/2-2015 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the payment of workers in the Hellenic Republic "ASTERN ICHTHYCLAGES S.A.". The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr Panos Skourletis. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it's not just the shipyard workers in Neorio, Syros. Unfortunately, unpaid work has taken the form of an avalanche across the country, as has the immunity of businesses. This includes all three hundred fifty employees in the Greek ICHYCLERGES "ASTERIA S.A.". This operation works in almost all of the country, in Istanbul, in Andros, in Argolida, in Boeotia, in Preveza, in Fthiotida. These workers are also in racing mobilisations and they are unpaid, Minister, from ten months to a year and the five months are with SYRIZA - ANEL. That's the reality. And there is a strong concern among these people and about what has really been the issue of their survival and job security. At the same time, however, Minister, especially in the field of fish farming, workers experience the anti-grassroots policy of governments over time. In this area, although they are heavy-handed workers, although they offer undetermined work of indefinite duration, with Law 322/2004, just before the elections, in February 2004, the PASOK government took these workers from IKA to OGA, so that we have unpaid overtime, workers do not get benefits, do not get sick leave, as the OGA does not cover work accidents. They are, in other words, literally in the mountainous mountainous mountainous mountainous regions, and all that, Minister, is being experienced by the workers in a sector that has developed enormously in our country in recent years. In particular, on the issue of fish farming, we are the first world country to produce Mediterranean fish. However, the workers, as I have said, are led to impoverishment and intolerability. There are several-month-olds who are not given, and this is what is done to make these businesses more profitable. I must tell you, Minister, before you answer, that the company is merged with other companies. It creates companies - let us not mention the name, you must know - as this company is already in place. The Board of Directors has the same President and Vice-President as the Greek Chrysakalgeries. That's exactly what's going on in this business. The aim is clear: workers must remain unpaid. We tell you to answer in particular: What measures will you take to give them, but most importantly, and I will return to my dentistry - what measures will you take to effectively remove this working jungle in the area of workers in fish farming in general?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u75	Mr Moraitis, on 19 May, at the request of the Labour Centre and the Federation of Workers of Milk, Food and Drinks, the Labour Inspectorate went to the premises on the next day, on the 20th of May, there was the request, that is to say there was a direct response - where he found 13 specific workers to strike for their employs and three others who were working normally. The truth is that it was not possible from the control to collect information, because there was no company representative, someone representing it in any case. The thirteen workers were unable - and that of course is not their responsibility, it shows the working conditions - to know exactly what they owe them. There was an ignorance. They know they weren't paid, but they don't know what they're owed them. A check sheet was produced, a reference on May 28, a few days later, it was delivered to the company, of which it had, of course, previously been requested to provide information, which it had refused. Consequently, in this case, the only way, after the provocative refusal of the company to cooperate with the Inspectorate, is to go the case - and it has been launched - towards justice. Because, indeed, this kind of working conditions, the violation of the legality, this limited concept of legality, as it has emerged from the memorial policies in recent years, is something that has taken the dimensions of avalanche - your observation - we are trying and have - and we have succeeded - in this Chamber again - with the powers it has - the powers it has at this stage - the Labour Inspectorate to be as present at the workplace with targeted controls, in cooperation with the trade unions. We have succeeded and been, because of this mobilisation, due to a different sample of writing from our Government, some small, even but encouraging phenomena, workers who are not declared to appear. That is why the figures - to a certain extent - have shown a positive increase in the employment balance in the past two months, even though we know what the conditions are today in the economy. So we will continue this way. The Labour Inspectorate is in a reorganization. The problem is in the region. We miss people. While there are possibilities in the centre, in smart ways through a new organisation and administration, to cover to some extent the needs that exist, unfortunately there are too many gaps in the region. As a matter of priority, recruitment will be directed towards the Labour Inspectorate in the next few months. As far as the question of the law you have said is concerned. This has been the case since 2004. The law is quite clear: OGA includes workers in the primary sector. Whether we should come back, for some cases, to the earlier situation and, let us say, to the IKA, it is an issue that we obviously cannot see at the moment. In the context of the work we are doing to create a comprehensive and radical insurance reform, which we will be ready to present in the autumn, we should also see these issues. But I think that we are always moving consistently in the name of defending the interests of the working world and that is what we will continue to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. I would like to announce to the House that the Secretary of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Leonidas Gregorakos, by letter to the President of the Greek Parliament, announced that on Sunday 14 June 2015 PASOK elected PASOK, following a universal secret vote of members and friends of the party and in accordance with its statute, the new president. The President of the Movement was appointed by MP II of Athens, Mr. Fotini Gennimata, who also takes over President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Moraite has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u78	Minister, the development in the area of farmed workers is indeed worrying. I have said that it is not just a question of ensuring employees, but much more of it is working conditions. Indeed, there is a middle-aged worker. Minister, don't say you'll see a whole thing. The Coalition was then against this law because, as I mentioned, people with heavy manual work are being transferred to the OGA. It's not the primary sector. Here we have OGA guards, other workers carrying farm food and all that. So you need to take a specific position on these issues, because they have been brought to the slaughterhouse real rights of workers. But the main issue is not that. It is the fact that companies operating in the fish farm area are exempted from contributions. You know very well, Minister, that it is not the same contributions to the IKA with contributions to the OGA. I mentioned earlier that they are losing a number of allowances. Let me give you a specific example: If we get redundancies tomorrow, will the farmers in the farm get unemployment benefits? Or are the mothers taking the leave of pregnancy and precinct? They don't. And there are enough women working in the fish farms. That is why we are clearly saying that this injustice is flagrant, that it is a gift to business. On the other hand, there are also revenues that would go to the insurance funds and, in this case, to the IKA. That's not all. The conditions of these workers are difficult. They're workers working in the water, in the sun. They work in the farms where there are medicines. In our view, we do not just claim that they have to go to the IKA. They have to go to heavy and unhealthy. These workers at the end of their working life, when they get pensions, will get hunger pensions. Not that IKA pensions are satisfactory, but OGA pensions are much lower than IKA pensions. We're intensified by the work. We have terrorism, Minister, at the workplace. We have a worker's dismissal, which raises two minor children - and you know it very well. Done at Evia on February 16, 2015, in the company “NERYS”, from which he was fired for trade union reasons, because he took the lead in the creation of the association. On these issues, Minister, you need to take a position. Here we have other gifts to these enterprises, which are the groups of banks, and to a number of such businesses that are active in the field. They have been given to them by the previous governments 'Good and Water'. In August 2014, a law on farms, which gives millions of subsidies, was passed on to us: EUR 388 million is provided for by the law by 2020. That's why you need to take a seat, Minister. Of course, this law fully adapts fish farms to the European Union's guidelines and really facilitates the designs of those who are active and those who intend to operate in this area of fish farming. I mentioned, Minister, in my prototype that our country is the first world in the production of Mediterranean fish, but, Minister, we are also the last country in the consumption of fish. On the other hand, everything I mentioned is happening, the redundancies, terrorism. For all this, we believe that the workers themselves must take the case in their hands against this barbaric policy. Because, as I have said, this is not just the unpaid work that may be done through the courts and all this for workers to take their money. We insist more on this jungle that prevails in this area. We believe that fish crops within a social property regime can indeed be developed in order to serve the nutritional needs of our people and not the profitability of capital. And that is what I said to you today, because although we are the first country to produce Mediterranean fish, we are the last in consumption. And this proves that the wide popular layers cannot reach fish consumption because of the poor income of both the workers and the popular layers in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Minister, before you answer, I was invited here by the Secretariat's ladies, because the bulletin says to you "Panagiotis" and I addressed you as "Panos". What do you want us to address you? As a Panagiotis or as a Pano?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u80	As you feel better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u81	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u82	Mr Moraite, I have heard an interesting remark. What do you suggest? The socialization of crops in the present conditions? I keep it to discuss some other time. But, look, when I tell you about the framework of the proposal that we are shaping and working on a brave radical tax reform, I do not do it to avoid your points of view. Because it is indeed fair for these workers to be subject to the IKA, and that will obviously also mean more revenue for the funds. I am keeping your views - alas - but I repeat that, as you can see, some changes made in the way they have been made cannot be made in four months, at a time when, regardless of the attack with the PSI on the insurance funds and what has happened at the moment, there is this huge rate of unemployment as a result of this barbaric isopotic policy, which in fact deprives resources from the funds. As long as unemployment is high, we cannot have a sustainable insurance system. You realise that all this now requires another perception of the economy, of the functioning of businesses and, above all, of the position of the workers. These cannot obviously be done within four months. But I think that every goodwill has found out what the compass of this government is, what the direction of this government is. Because what you are referring to and related to working conditions is a priority. In this Chamber in the government's programming statements we said that it was an oath of faith and honour for this government to put the issues of working conditions as a priority. And the first decisive step at the moment has been taken and it is about reintroducing collective agreements. You have seen how rabies our partners are fighting a matter which has no financial impact. It is not whether or not they will take their money back, whether or not workers have rights, whether or not they will come back to the workplace, but they are fighting rabies, because it was their aim, the deepest target of the memorandum, which was not what was seen at one level, the financial house, but it was a target that wanted to marginalize the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Skourlet, the European Union...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u84	It was a target that wanted to establish a model of society in which the worker would have no rights and would be the object of increasing exploitation. If you do not see this as a representative of the Communist Party, that is alarming. What can't you see? Not if this happens. You're tracking that right. Can't you see the effort the Greek Government is making today? Can you not see that this race is not just about Greek workers, but about European workers as a whole? It is the common place on which huge changes are currently being developed in the substrate of European societies. There, once again, I will tell you that there are no observer stops. That's where everyone chooses a meteor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u85	We've chosen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u86	So, Mr Moraite, we have positions, you know them. We are in favour of these positions. As I said before to Mr Katsotis, I think that we will never stop while we are in things defending the rights of the world of work first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u87	Do you want to say something now, Mr. Morales?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u88	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u89	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u90	Minister, even if we do not want to question your intentions, within the dominance of monopolies there is no possibility of gaining employment rights and safeguarding them. As far as the meteorification is concerned, we have chosen it. We are clearly on the opposite side from the 'globe' which is called the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u91	Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u92	A word, Mr President. Under the rule of monopolies and five years ago rights were lost. So correlations, changes can be positive or negative in conditions of monopoly domination. That's what you can't see and you have a wrong strategy of analysis and approaching things. Because the struggles are of importance and result, and now, in these circumstances. It is therefore a question of improving the lives of workers every day and their position so that we can open up new roads which will lead to a lasting improvement in things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u93	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u94	I'll give the floor to you and the Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u95	For the struggles to be successful, they must point to the real opponent. The games must have a class orientation. In this direction, we are giving all our powers. They are responsible for some who have now been against the labour movement and its targets, and they have actually thrown water into the mill of all those who have brought workers into this situation today. We support working-class struggles, but pointing to the real opponent who is clear to us that it is the European Union and those who serve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u96	We'll hang up with the Minister. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u97	I would just like to say one sentence: in fact, pointing the opponent correctly. Because I'm afraid you often don't point right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u98	In the heart.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u99	That's what everyone sees and makes their conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u100	The last part of the dialogue was interesting. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-18-S1-commons.u101	With the agreement of the House at 11.49 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 19 June 2015 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny: a) Topical and urgent debate and b) a topical question, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
