ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We welcome the Minister. And because of personal friendship, questions were not cancelled. First and last time, because of a personal friendship. Next time this is forgotten, especially for those Members who are waiting to get their answers. With the joint consent of colleagues, due to a move by Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou, he is sent out first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u2	The Bible says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u3	And the Bible, yes. Let's start with the third number. 1331/31-3-2015 - I say it for you too, Minister, to find your papers - question by MP Heraklion of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on compensation for the expropriated property. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It is a question, I must say, which has been answered - of course late. However, it is not the standard of late payment that led me to ask for a debate, but the essence of the matter, since the answers communicated to me by both the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate-General for Support, the Appropriations Directorate-General, etc., are not given an answer or at least a solution to the issue I am putting to it. So let us say the contents of the question and the problem. The expropriations, as we all know, are then made by court rulings in the first instance and then by appeal, the only price is fixed in order to pay the compensation to the beneficiaries of former property owners who have been expropriated. The problem is that while the Court of First Instance takes the decision with a certain unit price to pay the beneficiary an amount on the basis of that unit rate, it then comes the appeal - which can be made after one, two, three, four and a half years, depending on the deferrals to be granted, in any event, on the situation in question - and determines the unit price not on the basis of the data at the time when the expropriation took place or at the time when the decision was made, but on the basis of the data at the time when it comes to deciding. So when, after three years - to take an average - the appeal court is coming to decide at the economic juncture we have now - while we were used to rising prices, prices have now fallen sharply - we have appeal decisions all over Greece at very low unit rates. Does that mean what? Refunds are requested for huge sums of people who either this money has invested or have lost it because the crisis has led them all the previous time to make up for other income losses. They are invited today to return money, because that is what this is all about. The question is not whether the Ministry of Justice will intervene. The Department of Justice tells me that it doesn't interfere in the determination of the unit rate. No, that's not the point. The question is whether the legal framework is amended, improved, so that the decision made by the court, however long this is delayed, is not at the prices that the property has on that day, but on the day that man lost it. And it has been lost since it was made available to the public work, which has been done or at the time of the primary decision. That is the essence of the matter. I would like the Minister's attitude to tell us and to find a solution to this big issue, which has actually arisen because prices are now being underestimated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u5	It is a good request for Members to keep time, because there are twenty-two questions. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Kegeroglou, friend Vassilis, everything you said is true. But the opposite is true. At other times, in other times, when the economy was not that way, we have had expropriations of multiples, again for the same reason of delays - and not just - since the expropriations were made. So here we have to go to another logic of expropriations and objective values, another system and the setting of zone prices. This is a project that had begun two years ago. It didn't happen. You know the reasons and reasons. As far as I know, the Ministry of Finance has proceeded with such a process at the moment, to have new objective values everywhere and to be rationalized. But here we have to do another system, namely and transparently, in relation to expropriations. It is not possible, with the system we have today, to delay the projects too. Already in the work that has been going on for a decade now, we have too much delays and not all the expropriations have taken place. Secondly, we cannot have a serious budget for expropriations, which is also an important issue. Thirdly, it is not possible for the citizens, who, part of their property, are expropriated to make these infrastructure projects, to be in the air and not to know exactly what they will take and to have all these time delays. Now in this particular case, obviously, to come with a legislative arrangement and to alter the court's decision, you know it better than me that this is also a question of the constitutionality of this provision. What we need to see - and we will see it, is commitment - is how this money will be repaid to the Greek public in order to make it easier for citizens and to be able to cope with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am not asking for any intervention in the courts and for the judgments to be changed under no circumstances. Judicial decisions are made on the basis of the legal framework, the Constitution and the laws of the State. And shaping a different legal framework will fix things. So what I'm asking is something specific, I'm going to suggest it to you, and I hope it'll be considered. It is, of course, in relation to a state of affairs. You were right to say that all the years the prices were up, so it didn't bother anyone that he was delaying the court, I guess they may have already caused her the delay in getting more. But the people and the citizens who took that money from those who are now losing it are different. They're completely different. So it's not about average and balance. So we need a revolutionary solution. And you will allow me, since I have seen the photograph with Mars Velouchiotis, to think about the bold solution that we need to give today, not by switching the problem to the future. Because that is what I understood from your position, 'we will leave it in the future' and 'we see', 'life will give the solution', 'you know we do not intervene in the courts'. Well, he wants bold. So what does daring say today? We change by way of an order of order what the law says, that if a year has elapsed since the preliminary ruling, then the court shall decide on the basis of the circumstances at the date of the appeal and not at the time of the court or the time of the decision. This should change and be in line with the decisions in force at the time of the first instance or at the time of the expropriation. And that from now on will be a mess, which will be fair to both the state and the citizen. And secondly, to those who have already suffered this damage, not to ask them, according to the CEDEFOP, for money, to be unduly paid, supposedly, that people were cheating. They weren't cheating. The state told them that you were taking this money and then gave it to them, because the state itself created these price reduction conditions, it comes in and tells them "go back now according to CEDEFOP", that is, in short time, etc. To give particular attention to the long-term regulation - and I stress it in the long term - in order to be able to return it to those who cannot do anything, that is to say, who have suffered the damage so far. But for those who from now on may change the situation by giving a definitive solution, I think you should do it and dare, Minister, or do not photograph yourself with Velouchiote again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u9	Now the Velouchiot, anyway... Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u10	Vasilis, you have to move Velouchiotus like that. Because where I learned Velouchiot, you must have learned him. So don't forget him so easily. Secondly, I am obviously not going to apologise for the provisions we have found. But why did that provision come in? It would be a good question if the Minister who put this provision would tell us why he put it. I have a note from the Directorate for Legislative and Good Legislation - you must have it - which ends up as follows: 'It is noted that the overthrow of judgments by means of legislation is going to the limits of constitutionality'. What you're asking is obvious. It is also obvious that the institutional deficit we have in determining commercial and objective values at any time is what the previous governments easily overcome it by such legislation. How can one find out what was going on in this region two years ago and what commercial values we had two years ago when we do not have a real modern system that determines what trade values are all over Greece, what are the objective values, what are the reasonable values, which are the ones being asked, at this time that we are living, a year ago, two and ten years ago? So we had to go back to a rationalisation of all this, which, of course, needs work to be done. It can't be by laws or by words. It is done with specific observers, with specific sampling, with a specific system. This is therefore a solution which wants too much work and takes time to do so. With your question, we need to face a social phenomenon created by our fellow citizens and must be dealt with in a legislative way, as it moves to the limits of constitutionality, but also with a sensitivity to how these people can cope with any cost that has been set by the judicial decision. We will, of course, look at this, but we cannot commit ourselves if it does not move to the line of constitutionality. What we must commit - and we commit ourselves - is to create a system that values will be registered throughout Greece so that we do not have such consequences.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u11	The Minister is a practical man. I hope that a solution will be found that will please, friend Vassilis, and the friends of Velouchiotis and the non-friends of Velochiotis. There are others to do with everyone. Understand? We continue with the first 299/2-2015 top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diakias to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on initiatives to protect citizens against the radiation of mobile antennas. The Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. For all urban areas, the question by my colleague is of particular interest and I am also interested in it. I just submitted a report to you yesterday on the same subject for the Municipality of Holargos - Papagos. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. As you said, this is a serious issue that concerns many areas, densely populated areas of Attica, such as northern suburbs, where there are certain mobilisations - Maroussi, Melissa, Agia Paraskevi, Cholaros - and other regions, and even regional cities such as Agrinio. I have two characteristic examples to mention. Residents of Amarousios proceeded with a major reaction mobilization against the installation of another mobile antenna, in the building room on Heraklion 41 and Alexander the Great, the company "WIND", which is camoufled on a chimney. With this mobilization, they also opposed another routed second antenna of "COSMOTE", on the building roof on Lekka street 33. Both are very close to schools, children's stations and playgrounds. Another characteristic case is in the Municipality of Agia Paraskevi, where the residents were mobilized again. It is a mobile telephony antenna in the location of Thera 2 and Olympia, in the Constantinople of Agia Paraskevi. In this area there are three schools, there is the square, there is a school complex of secondary education deaf - bourgeois Agia Paraskevi, where managers express their concern and reservations about the impact of the strong electromagnetic radiation of the antenna on the cochlear implants of many of their students. These are specific issues. Therefore, due to the unregulated licensing of mobile antennas, which, according to the Vorides Act, have non-existent or substantiated environmental studies and no overall placement in order to rationally cover the urban area, dozens of antennas operate and continue to settle, endangering the health and quality of life of city residents. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, I would like to ask whether you intend to proceed directly to legislative initiatives to amend the institutional framework, in view of the immunisation of the safety and health of citizens, i.e. lower power emission limits, depending on the average in the countries of Western Europe, the distances from schools, public meeting places and less, new, not so harmful, broadcasting technologies. And if you intend to proceed to spatial planning of mobile antenna installation, with a denseer network, but with less power and new technologies, with the lesser impact on people's health, but also with respect for the urban landscape's aesthetics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u14	Because many times there are three different antennas installed in the same space, while there could be a consultation of the companies and there could be only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u15	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u16	Mr Dimitras, there has been a great debate in the past on electromagnetic radiation issues. Unfortunately, in another area, the sloppyness of spatial planning, individual and contradictory legislation, bureaucratic processes, information deficit and a consultation of the world's eyes, in the past, have created another explosive situation in society and a gray landscape for companies operating in the sector. For your information, there are today three thousand outstanding permits from the old action stations, which had started. Six to seven thousand new applications are expected in order to upgrade the existing 4G technology, which has been decided. The bodies involved in the licensing today are: the EITT, known as the National Atomic Energy Commission, the towns, the environmental directorates of the regions, the forest directorates of the decentralised administrations, the Civil Aviation Agency and the taxes of the Ministry of Culture. The EMCDDA today gives some 100 approvals a month. Therefore, at these rates, until the end date set by the previous legislation on 30 October 2015, two and a half thousand antennas - base stations - not licensed. So, as you can see, this is done every time - an extension will be requested so that mobile telephony can function, without either environmental impacts or location or anything like that being considered. The accumulated problems that I have mentioned, the poor functioning of the EMCDDA and a policy of the previous governments, which have thrown responsibility from the ministries to other bodies rather than actually dealing with the problem and put clear rules to everyone, have led this sector in the current situation too. It is therefore imperative that we move to legislative initiatives, but also to actions that rationalise the entire licensing system and mobile telephony bases and all other activities, their rules of operation, the control system, which will obviously ensure the health of citizens. In particular, in cooperation with the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, we will see the spatial design of the facilities - because it is not just a matter of our Ministry - mobile telephony stations. Also, with the same Ministry, we will see the environmental licensing and rationalisation of the 2014 Forest Protection Act, which contains completely contradictory provisions. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] So we have at least three issues with the co-legislator, which is why the legislative intervention which can be brought to the House cannot be irresponsible. In cooperation now with the Ministry of Culture, we need to see the sites and conditions of establishment in the areas where we have protection for cultural heritage, in historical centres, in archaeological sites, etc. So here we cannot have dogmatism. We have specific features that technology gives us. So, here too, we need to see the new conditions, in cooperation with the CEDEFOP, the movements of citizens and mobile telephony companies, for the examination of emission limits. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In my opinion, we should go to lower limits within urban areas, but consider on a case-by-case basis what commitments those from both the Ministry of Culture and from the former Ministry of Culture, where we will see the emission limits not generally horizontal throughout the country, but depending on the region concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u17	Minister, please complete secondary school, because it can't be done. I told you it was to discuss twenty-two questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u18	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will conclude with the National Observatory of Electromagnetic Fields - it is a commitment to extend it - which will have the role of continuous, continuous control of public exposure limits and the continuous information of every citizen so that there is social control and a state that demonstrates daily to the citizen that the limits and legislation are respected and obviously respect for his health.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u20	As you have rightly pointed out, Minister, the law must be changed and the procedures must be simplified. So many co-responsible bodies cannot decide on a simple matter. We never finish like this and new situations of arbitrary aerial placement are created every day and the thing is complicated. Because when you have to face an existing situation, it's not like catching up with a situation. You're aware of the problem. We need to find ways to finish too soon, to protect health, especially of young children in schools, which we know are more vulnerable to these new technologies. I think we're gonna do well. We're all awake, so we can move on soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u21	Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, I would, by way of derogation, like to ask you whether you can answer two things in addition to my colleague's very nice question: Firstly, if you are concerned, after you are going to review the legislation, a fine to the owner of the property that, while he knows there are no conditions, accepts the antenna. Because, for me, there's the button of the story. I, for accepting to put illegal antennas, know that if they catch me, I'll get a fine and pay. Secondly - by experience, I tell you - often the municipalities cannot afford to pay the costs - because they are paid by the municipalities - and you know that it is a costly matter of downloading antennas. And it's not that they don't want to. They can't. They don't have the money. So, because you said too about the CEDEFOP quite rightly, it must also be done with the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you for the way in which I am speaking. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I will say a few words, I will not eat all the time, so that we can all understand even more what has been going on to date and not just on this particular subject. I'm saying that on the occasion of that. There was provision for the co-installation of mobile telephony facilities provided for in Article 30 of the Law. 3431/2006. This, apparently, also reduced the number of antennas and stations that would exist in each area. Co-installation was abolished with Mr. 4070/2012, as a Memorandum Obligation, together with the 2008 and 2010 EBRD Regulations, which laid down the terms and rules for co-installation. I have looked to find the explanatory statement of this abolition. There isn't. Really, there's nothing. Not a single line, not a single word. Secondly, the power to authorize mobile telephony stations, according to n. 2075/1992 until 2000 it belonged to the Ministry of Infrastructure. Then, subdued by previous governments, she was transferred to the stunning ETF. I will also give you its note where it disqualifies itself as an independent authority, instead of a regulator with an independent function, which is currently not even with an independent function, with all that has been done over the years. There is therefore no rule of logic or legislation which dictates that the authorisation should be granted to a regulatory authority. There isn't. But the EMCDDA had to do. Evidently all of this goes into the overall framework for a single system of authorisations for all the activities of the country. This will soon come to Parliament to legislate. Mr President, you are absolutely right. The State had to impose a fine on the owner of the property, but since the State first defined where it was allowed and where it was not allowed. There's no such thing. For the country's overwhelming surface there is no what is allowed to do and what is not. It is also clear that the lack of demolition by the municipalities - although the competence has been transferred there - is due to the lack of resources for the antennas and for all the rest they have been sent to them. These must be dealt with. The ETF has revenues, has too much revenues and can be predicted more, i.e. it can be predicted that when a station is illegal, there is a resource there in the municipality to be demolished. These will be here soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much. Minister, on my own initiative - because we are all Vice-Presidents and I will not have had time to get off the Step - I suggest that the debate on my own topical question should be postponed next Monday, because it is not any different, although I feel that you would have had good news to tell me. This is my first question with number 1642/8-4-2015 to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the procedure for licensing outdoor parking in the historic center of Athens. That makes it easier for the process. I assume you agree, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u24	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u25	Good. Here is the fourth question, under number 276/26-5-2015, of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki, Mr.Akaterini Markos, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the upgrading and modernisation of the airport of Ioannina. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Spirtzis. Mrs Marcou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the work of upgrading the airport of Ioannina began in 2007. After five extensions, completion is expected in February, unless of course. The main problem, however, remains the establishment of the necessary instruments for approaching and necessary radio aid, which will enable the airport to obtain the necessary formality and to join international destinations. We are all aware of the particular weather conditions in the region and especially the mist that leads to many cancellations of flights. So that's the point. Since the question has been tabled to date, I know that there have been some developments and a proposal from the PSC under the new leadership, to solve the problem at last, and I would like you to inform the National Representation. The second issue we are asking for is the update of the project master plan. From 2007 to today, conditions have changed. The flights now made at the airport of Ioannina are only from Athens to Ioannina and from Ioannina to Athens, as we have on the one hand the new Egnatia road and flights have been abolished from and from Thessaloniki and on the other hand with the completion of the Ionian Road we will have fewer flights. I would like you to tell us what will happen with this. Already the Municipality of Ioannittes does some nuisances in the NDP, but we haven't got any answers yet. The airport of Ioannina is the only one in Epirus and any strategic planning for the development of the area must include it and there must also be a upgrading of its operation and a connection to new destinations abroad, thus contributing substantially to the tourist development of the region and to the stimulation of the local economy. Please let us know exactly what is going on with the Ioannina airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Marcus. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u28	Mrs Marcus, I am giving you the answer from the Civil Aviation Service - I do not know if you have it - from which you will draw useful conclusions on how it worked and how the Civil Aviation Service has been working to date. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practices.]] Unfortunately, both the Civil Aviation Service and the country's airports are a common place for all Greeks and those who visit Greek airports, whether they are Greek or not, those who are users. In this context, the burden of the Ministry, the government and the new administration placed in the coming days - the process has not been completed - is too great, especially in the current economic context. The Director of the PSC responds - I read them out of the means to understand - : "On the basis of the arrangements agreed at the working meeting, which was held on 14 November 2014 with the participation of the then Minister and the then State Secretary, our Service has launched the investigation of all technical improvements in terms of systems and infrastructures to support or design new procedures, in cooperation with EUROCONTROL". ‘In particular: Our Service is already reviewing existing specifications for the installation of a GBAS CAT I system at the State Airports Ioannina, while at the same time considering the possibility of a GBAS CAT II system specification, etc. ‘Determination of the size of the costs of the ‘procedures and obstacles’ study for the implementation of new procedures, we predict that it will be submitted after the completion of the management by EUROCONTROL. It is estimated that this will be completed in 2015.’ As you can see from the answer, from the meeting on November 14, 2014 until today, nothing has happened. It continues in the replies: "In terms of technical projects, we note that the project "Expansion of Airport Building, Air Parking Floor" etc. ‘to be carried out with care of the manufacturer of EEE/CSF/TTE of Preveza. The project shall be interrupted on account of the expiration of environmentally licensed projects and pending the adoption of a new Ministerial Decision by the Ministry of Finance, with a risk of dismantling the contractor’. So the commander of the PSC continues to tell us, in relation to your first question, that "all is fine, don't worry, they will be". That is to say, the environmental licensing that the PSC had to have predicted to have been renewed expires is close to leaving the contractor for that reason, but it's all right! In your second question, it answers that "In relation to the prospects of the airport, it is noted that the approved master plan of the airport, drawn up by the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in December 1999, has been based on the practicable methods and techniques provided for..." Then “regardless of the above, the assistance of the PSC to local societies in matters of our own competence is continuous, stable and given. Equally certain and necessary, however, it is that local authorities and bodies are actively involved and co-operate, so that, on the one hand, the requested interventions are documented and, on the other hand, the best possible outcome is ensured” says the commander of the PSC. "In this regard, we note that the Municipality of Ioannina has so far not presented a study with concrete and documented future prospects for air traffic and development, in order to be properly assessed and on the basis of them to plan further actions of the State." I mean, it's the mayor's fault, obviously because he doesn't belong to his resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u29	From November to today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u31	Mrs Marku, you'll have the floor. Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u32	What's going to happen in the future? The first thing that will be done, Mrs Marcus, is that in the next few days a new command is placed in the PSC. Its first concern will be the electronic equipment of the PSC and, in particular, the radio aids, with which we are starting to have problems throughout the country at many airports, and we are running to save the staff and critical facilities needed, to stop the further depreciation of the Civil Aviation Service and the airports from the constant political depreciation of the previous governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u33	I don't think the HR document is an answer. Anyway. Mrs Marku, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am sorry to say this, but unfortunately I did not get any answers, because on the one hand we know that last November, nothing has happened to the PSC, but I would like you to tell me what you are going to do from now on and if you are going to force the PSC to take the necessary steps. What has to do with the master plan I think it is funny to talk about when you yourself said that it is a master plan that was done in 1999. In addition, when we talk about regional infrastructure, we should always consider the feasibility and particular circumstances of each region. I would like to say that the people of Epirus do not just want an airport to look at it, they want an airport that will serve them on the one hand, but will also be a factor of development and will bring visitors to the area, incomes and jobs. It is funny in 2015 to say that there are no solutions for the Yannena, when international airports exist, in much more difficult areas, such as Alps or other cities with the same problem, such as Göteborg, where the airport system has recently upgraded and where there is a runway visibility in the 50 meters. I also have the relevant press release, if you're interested, from the Göteborg airport. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Marcou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Obviously there are solutions and many practices in other countries and know-how. For example - this is about what you told me about the Municipality of Ioannites - the GBAS system was a municipality proposal, which the PSC did not accept. That is the answer I give you to what you said to me. Also, according to the information I have received recently, the integration of the airport into a European programme requires that aircraft have the appropriate system. That's good. However, it is intended that the airport should also have the appropriate system. It is also important to say that so far 20 million euros have been spent on national budgets and that this money has to get a place and be given for real reasons rather than a airport window project. I would therefore like you to tell me in particular what the timetable will be, what the cost of installing approach systems is and how the overall delivery of the project is affected. In simple terms, when will the Ioannina airport operate as an international airport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u35	Minister, because I know your sensitivities, take into account the fact that the reasons for the Ioannina airport are now national after the last statements of this type, Mr Eddie Rama. Only in Rio - Antirio didn't say Albania was enough! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u36	Mrs. Marcus, you probably didn't understand me. I say again: with this administration of the PSC, the government can do nothing. With what this PSC administration has done, whoever it was a government could do nothing. I will give you a characteristic example: there are two aircraft of the PSC that can control and seize radio aids. Both are out of order. And it's not out of operation now, but it's out of operation for months now. So we are acting firearms in everything that is "driving" in connection with the operation of the Civil Aviation Service and airports from deficiencies that the previous government and that administration have not predicted to be covered. That's true for all the airports in the country, for everything. Now we're going to that particular airport. At this airport, as you know, we had a number of ministers' origins and not national issues, as is usually the case with the country's public works, over-divisions. An airport, i.e., which we are subsidising to take a flight a day is designed for much greater load. That would be understandable if we were in other times, not in times of crisis. This resulted in - to tell you the history - the project contest to be held on 19-6/2006 while the contract was signed in November 2006 with a total of 25 million. The original object of the project was a budget of 52 million and has so far been paid and implemented 22 million. The project would have no problem if the Civil Aviation Service had not neglected it and had taken care of it in time to ensure that the environmental licensing of the project was not terminated. You're asking me what we're gonna do. The first thing we're going to do is what has been pending for many years - it's not a year, but it's more than a year - and it's got to do with the spare parts of radio aid and radio aid itself. The new PD command, in cooperation with the Ministry, will make sure they get in. It's her first concern. It is also the certification of their operation. Today this is the case, with too many aids and not just through the Civil Aviation Service, so that we do not close airports when the day's light falls. I cannot tell you 'then we will do this' unless we finish first with the replacement procedures for this administration. Obviously, Mr President, for national reasons the Ioannina airport must have all these aids and other things. And not only for the Ioannina airport, but the same things should be ensured if the tender for the privatisation of airports goes ahead, at all the other regional airports that play their own role in the national reasons we all know, and the services of the Civil Aviation Service and their control should not be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u37	Thank you both to the Minister and to my colleague. It will now be discussed the fifth under No 242/19-5-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diakias to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the study of a settlement - delimiting the large stream of Rafina. Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to clarify that I am a SYRIZA MP working with the Green Ecologists, and so let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u39	I read what the text says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u40	Yes, Mr President, I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u41	Welcome the clarification, to be written in the Minutes, but this text writes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u42	That is why you can justify my sensitivity to many environmental issues I am bringing. On the occasion of the great stream of Rafina, as it is said, we need to think seriously about how we treat all the streams. Especially in Attica, because I was a regional consultant at Attica, I've seen how we've mistreated the streams. Our usual behavior toward the natural environment, in the passive ecosystems of the streams, is to cover them with cement, to conduct them or at best to leave them open to the top or to use some wires and crocodiles. So I will bring you here the specific example of Rafina's large stream, because this is one of the few more, free streams and will then happen acts of the administration that abuse the landscape. The large stream of Rafina is one of the few streams of Attica that remain open, characterised as special environmental interest. The issue of the overall management of the stream should be answered to reasonable protection and enhancement of the ecosystem and the high environmental and aesthetic value. In the recent past, flooding phenomena along the stream bed have evolved, and the main cause of the phenomena is anthropogenic interventions and trespasses, such as anarchist construction and arbitrary structures in the bed, the diversion of part of the Podonnift basin with the works carried out on the Attica Road without any study in Rafina, the erosion of the Penteli soils due to fires and the reduction of forest cover. Only during the August 2009 fires are estimated to burn an area that touches 30% of the total area of the stream basin. Continuous danger to the ecosystem of the stream is - in addition to the known threats to bait and trespasses - the state's occasional interventions to maintain and determine the bed, which is done in an unacceptable way, putting bulldozers instead of protecting it a little bit. In particular, therefore, the bulldozers of the Attica Region, who are responsible for the maintenance and operation of the stream, cut the reeds, disguise the vegetation and create at the same time local, fragmentary works supposedly restore the bed, which is simply shifted...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Comrade, the rest of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm just going to ask the two questions. You ask yourself, Minister: Do you intend to check the settlement and delimitation study of the large stream of Rafina, so that these bad studies carried out everywhere in the streams are not repeated, why is it subject to a procedure and has there been a competition for the study of the stream? Secondly, you ask whether you will act in order to cancel the suspension from the built-in initiative of the residents of Eastern Attica region with cables at the launch point and whether you will take measures for the environmental and aesthetic projection of the delta, which was - and is still - an ecosystem. And there are now available facilities from the municipality and the port to expand and abolish the existing delta...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u45	Excuse me, Mr. Comrade. Don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u46	...to be restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u47	I welcome the always consistent Mrs Valavani, who is present before her time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u48	Mr Dimitras, a comment on the issue of the timely question that speaks of changing planning of Rafina's large stream. There can be no planning change, because until now there has been no planning to implement its change. No planning, unfortunately. All there was was frugalness to get planning. What I would like to inform you is that, within the framework of the Ministry's competences - because other ministries are involved in all of this - for the large projects at national level that are especially important and important, we have proceeded to an international competition in an open procedure and the study has been commissioned. The competition took place in October and there was a contractor. A few days ago, the audit procedure by the Court of Auditors and the signature of the contract were called for. We believe and appreciate that by the end of July it will have been signed. This is to make the study and predict everything you ask. If you want more specific, I can submit the service note to you to have a full picture. But to distinguish a few things. It's a very important stream. This contributes to the streams of the south Penteli, the streams of the north of the East Hymittos to Pain and the streams of the Spata plain south. The stream of Rafina is one of the few streams of Attica that remain open. It is characterised as a particular environmental interest and its purpose - as should be - is to solve chronic flooding problems. It is therefore of paramount importance. The subject-matter of the contract to be awarded shall include all the studies. Obviously, the scholar should come in collaboration with the Organiser Rafina and the Municipality of Rafina, because there is provision for the construction of a marina near the escalation of the stream. The studyers should therefore be informed and minded of the design, the master plan of the Rafina port. The purpose of the study is also to update the hydrologic model and to verify, as far as possible, the flooding phenomenon in order to produce the most appropriate safety, economy, but mainly environmental impacts, in accordance with the EEAS-YPEKA suggestions, which is the authority responsible for the environmental licensing of the project. After the completion of the study - as I say to you - a request will be made to finance the important anti-military work of Attica, which, in our view, needs to be more than EUR 100,000 000. In other words, it's not a small project. It's a special play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u50	As I said, Minister, the issue is to change the model of studies. Because when we study the streams, we should see maybe small blocks of stirring. The model of Glezu I've applied is a very good model. Because apart from limiting flooding phenomena at the time of the storm, it enriches the underground waterline with water. The underground aquifer must be maintained. There is therefore no need to carry out very high-cost projects of so many millions of dollars, provided that studies are properly carried out and instead of taking measures for the entire length of the ravage bed, we can see the local points, where they have usually become arbitrary and flooded, precisely because the bed is narrowing down to these points and the amount of flows does not fit. And here we need to see a dimension of those who are arbitrary and do arbitrary constructions or throw a ball into the streams. There must be some consequences. Not only to protect property, but also to ask for the damage they cause by their actions to other citizens who lose their property or even to the public interest. I therefore insist that we see again the model of the studies on streams and the natural environment around them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u51	And on the occasion of Rafina and other events, not then watching the TV show. Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u52	I'll just say one word. The need to build the project and the stream of Rafina and, more generally, the environment also arises from environmental reasons, but mainly from the timeless behaviour of this stream in flooding incidents. The main problem facing the Rafina stream today is that most of it does not have a shaped cross section and at the exit, the concrete section arranged has to be reviewed. That's for sure. The stream has a shaped bed for about four kilometers upwards of the expulsion. This section is mostly passed through a residential area of the municipality of Rafina, which is very burdensome. Now, why is it not that the stream has not been delimited, not just of this particular, Mr Diarah, but of all the others? You know it. They're trespasses, they're specific interests, they're big projects that have been done, and it's convenient for there to be a rough situation without planning, for everyone to do what suits them. And we are now coming back, obviously dealing with this whole situation. I think, as you will see from the Office's note, that the studies that have been planned are so many and what they are asking for are so detailed that all these issues that you have raised will be included and dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. We shouldn't just stay in the studies. We move to the tenth question under number 230/18-5-2015 of the second cycle of the Parliamentary Party of Thessaloniki Mr.Christina Tachiaou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the risk of the metro of Thessaloniki from European funding. It is an extremely interesting time-consuming question. You have the floor for two minutes, Mrs. Tachiau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the construction of the Thessaloniki metro is the most important project in terms of infrastructure, so that the city will become modern with a clear development horizon. The project started in 2006. Until today, the city is a vast construction site and, as we all know, the project has not only been completed within the timetable - in 2012 - but it has been stopped, it is in danger of not being completed - we do not know what will happen with this - but also to end up with European funds and for our country to be forced to return the gloomy sum of EUR 500 million at such a time. A series of very serious problems have been caused in the city by this whole situation. Let us now talk about the most recent example, which is the closure of the archaeological department, the start of his employees' rotation work, under which they are required to work only once a week. They are the last of the Moican officials. Today, they were to be fired, but they were told that a small line was found and would continue for a short time, two or three weeks and see what happens next. It may seem that the work has not been stopped. The difficulties are many and are well known: from the difficulties in expropriation, the involvement of the ministerial decisions concerning the fate of the antiquities at Venizelos Station, the lack of understanding between the consortium and the "ATTYMERO". They have been damaged hugely by hundreds of shopkeepers and no serious state provision has been taken for these people. The government, and she, simply monitors the current situation and does not coordinate the continuation of the project as it should. This is all a lack of political will, which leads the project to a definitive cessation. As a consequence, apart from the fact that there will be the well-known traffic problems, except that we will have unemployment issues, except that these people will still have lost their stores, their jobs, etc., the main thing is that Thessaloniki is losing the opportunity to become a modern city and a Balkan metropolis, which is necessary. Thessaloniki has no public transport. It has a bus and this at a time when its tourism is growing. If you ever see a tourist on the bus, come tell me. There are no tourists. The most serious problem, which has arisen in recent years, as has been mentioned by the press, is that a very strict letter was sent by the Commission on 9 April to the Ministry saying: 'Mrs., what about the metro issue? We need explanations. Why is he in a dead end?’ The Commission sent a second letter later on on on the 19th of the month, which we do not know what happened. However, as far as the Community is concerned, it is very likely, firstly, that the Community's stadiums should come to Thessaloniki to see what is going on with the project. "Here" is, because I got carried away, I mean in Thessaloniki. There is also a serious risk of indebtedness, where we should return money. So, is the Minister asking, first of all, what has happened in recent years? Because, since the question has been tabled, there have been some developments so far. What's the timeline? What's the design? What about the project? Is there a political will? What if there is a political will, in essence, what is to be done? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u55	The 'here' is a good thing you have said, Madam President. Thessaloniki is interested in all Greece. It was the city of my youth. I compare my voice, Minister, to Mrs Tahiau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u56	I too join my voice with Mrs. Tahiau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u57	We'll see in practice how much you're joining her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u58	First of all, I would like to say in the Minutes that Parliament's reply to both the 'ATTIF' and the service for formal reasons. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] From there on, the work of the metro of Thessaloniki is really a model project on how projects should not be done. In the same category is the majority of projects that started under these conditions under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Souflia and still hold hostage throughout Greece. We then have another timely question from another Member on the same subject. We're gonna have to put them in and make a list. What should we start about this project? This project was launched as co-financed in 1992 and not in 2006. Then it was settled in '99. In 2002 the concession contract ended and the 2006 solution came. In 2004, it was actually re-published as a public project.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u59	I said the work started in 2006.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u60	Yes, yes, in 2006 it was guaranteed in the consortium. So we have come to have a work that was done in 2006 to reach 900,000,000 euros. The archaeological works were planned to end in a year and with a budget of EUR 15 million. The works of archaeology are currently over 140,000,000 euros and God has! And the play, if we find a solution, it takes another six years to complete it. There are claims from the consortium of EUR 670,000, 000, to the EUR 900,000, 000, which is the contract, and we have been closed in the tenth year already. 55% of civil engineering projects and 0% of electromechanical projects have been implemented. Of course, those who are involved in this work also make statements: 'What are you going to do?' They're fighting. What they have done and where the work and the city and society of Thessaloniki have arrived is not seen. Now, what have we done? We've had enough meetings. Unfortunately, the consortium even in its commitments to these meetings in relation to the workers is not consistent. A committee has been set up, which opened its meetings last week with a period of 15 to twenty days, to stop all the seventy-seven-sixteen-year arbitration proceedings which have applied for and find a definitive solution, without overturning the existing contract, but by allowing the contractor - instead of sixteen years of work - to cover the fixed costs provided for by the legislation and dismantle the project. That is what we are doing at the moment, Mrs Tachyau, and I hope that in a week or ten days' time we will have a happy ending in these negotiations, so that we do not have to go to other solutions, which we will actually have some delays. However, the fact that a letter has been sent on the project - the European Commission has done well because it is doing its job - does not mean that the project is being carried out. The construction of the metro of Thessaloniki is financed from the resources of three programming periods. More specifically: The main line of Thessaloniki metro is a major project and has been co-financed by the third CSF and by the NSRP as a bridge project, in accordance with the relevant European Commission's founding decisions and on the basis of the corresponding requests for confirmation of financial assistance for the two programming periods. It has ensured the continuity of its co-financing as a phasing project from resources of the NSRF 2007-2013 and the NSRF 2014-2020, with the relevant European Commission approval for the 2007-2013 programming period, as well as its inclusion in the list of major projects of the approved operational programme 2014-2020 ‘COMPANY’. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] It will therefore continue to be financed from NSRF resources 2014-2020 as a phasing project, in accordance with the European Commission’s relevant approval decision on the basis of the corresponding request for confirmation of financial assistance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u61	The others in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u62	What will not be at stake is if we do not speed up the procedures either to find a solution with the consortium or to go to another solution that we do not wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u63	Mrs. Tachiau, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u64	From your last sentence, Minister, I conclude that you are telling me what you should do? Do it! Of course, if you don't find a solution, yes, the project is in danger, as you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u65	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u66	But finding a solution is a matter of political decision, it depends on you and your own actions. Now let's go to the fact that yes, we know the history of the subway project. We know what the problems are, we know that the project has not gone ahead, but we get no real response, that is, I have not been covered in anything. I should like to believe that you have the best intentions of carrying out the work, although on your side, the fact that you are the government, and you are its Minister, has been heard and of stopping the work, closing the hole, restoring things to the pretext situation, which is impossible to do. In any case, we want a clear statement that this work will be done. We're not talking about anything else. You said that the Commission sent a letter and that it did not mean an answer. Very nice. But what did we do? We are told by the Commission that 'they are in danger here'. You have not answered what you have answered. He says: "I will send people, experts, to see what is happening and to see if the work is done, which is described". Because, as far as we know, there is such a doubt. Some articles also came out, which say that in order to provide loans from the European Investment Bank for the Thessaloniki metro the property of the Athens metro was guaranteed, which is a new stage. I haven't covered in any of this. The question is not going to be resolved either in the chambers of the courts or in the seventies, as you said, or at the tables, if these discussions are endless. The necessary steps must be taken by the ministries involved, but there must be a plan and a very strict timetable which does not seem to exist from somewhere. There is, in general, one 'we're going to do', but there is neither any clear expression of will nor any plan. When metro work started, we all saw it in the city as a factor of future prosperity, as a tool that will really bring growth to the region. Today, however, it is a time bomb on the foundations. The city is wounded, it's an open wound. It will affect the lives of millions of citizens and we cannot really understand what the moves are at the moment, which will lead to a solution. Clear moves, however, also to a very clear timetable. We are aware of the problems that exist and how long they have been delayed. From now on, however, it is necessary to find a solution. On this subject I would like to come back and have a request for documents, Minister, shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u67	Thank you too, Mrs. Tachiau. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u68	I hope you do that. I really wish. Mrs. Tachiau, what have you not understood? It's not up to us. You don't understand that. If it were just up to us, we'd have solved it. The Greek public in this work and the rest of the roads I have told you are bound by specific contracts. So he doesn't do what the Greek public wants. And we have not yet entered the revolutionary period of non-binding. We might as well get into this one. In other words, I do not exclude it from these conventions we have. But on the other hand, we're not going to give in. And I would ask you very much, because I respect you, not to "..." the game of those who want through society, the city and the workers to pressure the government in order to have the maximum possible claims and benefits from a rapid start of the work, the problems of which are almost twenty years pending. So, what do you say? Should we go and say 'Take 670 million that you claim and solved all tomorrow'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u69	That is a clear hint, though. I'm afraid I'm going to ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u70	No, it's not an insinuation!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u71	Mrs. Tachiau, I've noted it. I did not want to interrupt, but once it has been done, I would like to believe, Mr Minister, that the word '...' is put into introductory forms.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u72	Yeah, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u73	Because, as you said, Mrs. Tachyau is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u74	So I'm reprinting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, in any case, I ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u76	I didn't mean to hurt you, Mrs. Tachyau. But I want you to understand that, because in too many projects the government is now pressing on to find a solution because they are sacking the workers. It's not the only work that's been fired by workers. The representatives of the consortium were committed to me - and ten other people were in front of me - as long as these negotiations keep not to fire people. And they fired the next minute! Well, we're not going to go to a logic because they're firing people or for pressing the community of Thessaloniki and we've got a 10-year-old city to find an appropriate solution tomorrow, in order to submit to the very great claims that this project has and the other similar works on the Paramonian road - we'll see you then - through a continuous time-trafficking process. So I tell you that what we have done is that we started negotiations with them last week. A committee has been set up and the timetable is to complete its work in fifteen days. If we reach agreement on what is provided for by the law and the contract that this consortium has, it has well done, the work will continue. If we don't end up, we'll go to other solutions. What else can we tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u77	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u78	Mrs Tachiau, I would ask you, following the Minister's statement, that she did not intend to raise you and, secondly, that the word '...' will be deleted from the Minutes. - Not even in quotes - let me go on because we're pressed. We must be careful when we address any colleague and minister, particularly a newly elected colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u79	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u80	Let's go to the nineteenth, with number 246/19-5-2015, a top-cycle question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the risk of the national network of Antirios - Ioannina and Amphichia - Lefkada - Preveza. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, once again the Communist Party of Greece brings to Parliament and emphasises the dangers of the road network Antirio - Ioannina and Amphilosia - Lefkada - Preveza. It's a road that's built over half a century ago. This really is a carnival road. There is nowhere a separating sediment. The lines that existed in the middle of the road on both ends have been erased, thus becoming more and more dangerous. It is a road through which seven counties communicate - Ietalokarnania, Preveza, Ioannina, Arta, Thesprotia - and two Ionian islands, Corfu and Lefkada. Also, through this road, through the Egnatia road, the Peloponnese has been communicating in recent years with the Balkans. Minister, really the passage from this road is a real Golgotha. The physical integrity of passengers and those passing through is directly compromised. With the squeeze - let me speak - which has taken place in recent years, not only is the road being repaired, but remains dangerous, as I have said. The question is specific, Minister: What measures will you take to maintain this road network, to ensure that drivers and passengers pass through? And don't tell us, Minister, that it's going to be the Ionian Street, the Ambrosia-Aktio section. We have developments that I shall refer to in my dentistry. That the road will take place, that the inhabitants of Western Greece have been listening to it for years. The case of building this road axis will go a long way. Minister, we are asking you and we want you to answer specifically what measures you will take because, as I said, this is a road - slaughterhouse, but even if it becomes the road axis and the Ionian road and the Ambrosia - Aktiou section, large sections of the existing road network will continue to be exploited by the inhabitants of the area and especially poor areas and tens of villages left out of any communication, because there are no no nodes where they enter these roads. That is why, Minister, we insist that the answer be specific. What measures will you take immediately, now, because we have grieved - and then - tens of dead on this road - carnilla?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u83	Mr Moraite, it is indeed in an area where the road network is in the state that you have described. And it's not the only one. Wherever we have outstanding projects - particularly on the major motorways - we have the same situation. You're asking us what we're going to do. First of all, in your question you refer to a section that is on the Ionian Road. There's nothing else we can do. It will be covered by the work of the Ionian Road. We have other divisions that have been auctioned. Thank God Mrs Tahiau's question has also happened before. He's in the same class as the Thessaloniki subway. What's going on there? For the four projects that have been done, we have claims. Even the claims are the same as the works are, approximately proportionally. The first project is 5.1 million, the second is 5.2 million, the third is 5.3 million and the fourth is 5.4 million. Let me inform you that he is in the category of projects "Giorgos Soufflias". The first project has been implemented at 49% and has to end on 16-6-2015. The second project has been implemented at 37% and has to end on 16-12-2015. The third project was implemented in 35% and had to end on 8-6-2015. The fourth project was implemented at 52% and had to end on 13-12-2015. What do we do in particular? The specific thing we are doing is, in the works that have stopped and which have a specific problem and which the contractor does not respond, to follow another line of the Greek State and to proceed with the discount procedures and, where he responds, to continue the work. And there we have the same phenomena as workers' redundancies, claims, etc., as with the metro. In order not to delay the President because of the burden, I will also give you the service documents on what has already been planned in relation to specific road tracks, which are not included in these projects, for cross-planning and improvement of existing roads. I give it to you to have a full picture of what is going on in all the areas you say, because it is almost all of Western Greece, except the Peloponnese.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u84	Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have not answered this question. In any case, you have done well and raised the matter to say exactly what is happening at the moment. The existing road network, whose timetables are not to be observed - because particularly for the Ambrose axis, it should have finished in 2013 - we tell you that it is the new Malian petal. That's exactly what this area is. I don't know who gave you that evidence. With data from Trojaya, we know that of the five most dangerous points on the pan-Hellenic road network, the three points are there. These are the points that are outside the Antirios to Mesolige, outside the Amphilochias, in Menidi just before Arta, as well as the entire road from Amphilochosia to Preveza and Lefkada. A few days ago, Minister, we had a bus overthrow outside the Yannina, unfortunately with slight wounded...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u86	Fortunately, with slight wounded. I'm saying it because they're being kept practically. Unfortunately, the accident, fortunately with slight wounded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u87	Yes, Mr President, thankfully I meant. To be corrected. As far as contractors are concerned, at the moment we are talking, Minister, we have a hundred employees dismissal with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, where there would be no collective redundancies. A few days ago the workers contacted you. You promised them that by 30 May, if the construction company fails to meet the obligations, measures will be taken. In the first ten days of June no measures were taken. Instead of answering, we've got a hundred employees fired. There are unpaid workers on all four contracts. There is a smash in labour relations, a stepping up of work, a dismantling of labour force and a total lack of health and safety measures, not to mention that we have had fatal accidents in this project. The project had to be completed in 2013, with the backs of the previous governments. Unfortunately, we see today that there is a tolerance to the construction company. We say clearly that the more you give to the construction groups and give them gifts, the more the appetite opens to them and ask for more and more. It is true that you have said that they are indeed asking for more than 5 million in every contractor. We didn't say you'd endure. We have said that measures will now be taken and not only in terms of the completion of projects, but also in terms of working conditions. Because we have been talking about 60% reduction in wages and wages since the contractors became. The wages of drivers were then around EUR 2 000, and today is EUR 600 and 800, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are clearly saying that the roads are not being maintained today and I am coming back to the question of the timely question. There are no transport and travel infrastructures that serve people's needs. As a priority is the needs and profits of monopolistic groups and the transfer of their products. This is the reality, Minister, and not the safe roads to popular strata. The new road axes - if they are made - will pay them the popular mattresses. Today, at the moment we're talking, we have tolls on these roads - carniola, going from Preveza to Athens and turning, over 50 euros. Therefore, the popular layers pay these roads and their construction through tax collector and traffic charges, as well as tolls, which have been allocated to construction companies. We say clearly that in order to make the transfer of popular rights, people in the region must draw conclusions and fight for roads that will actually serve needs. And answer specifically, Minister. I raised the question that large sections and whole towns of two and three thousand inhabitants are left out of this network, although whenever it is built. Today, however, it is a carnival network. You visited Arta, as far as I know, and you went through this road.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Comrade, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u89	I shall conclude, Mr President. If there is no maintenance, this road will really be a slaughterhouse for the passers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u90	My colleague will allow me to say that the safe roads concern both the eleven million Greeks and the visitors of this country, not only the popular strata but also the non-popular strata.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u91	Let's call it ten and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u93	Mr Moraite, I would agree with you, but at some point you are completely wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u94	That's the reality. Nowadays they're a hundred fired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u95	There is no tolerance from this government to those who have such conduct. And we have a particular sensitivity to say that in Parliament too. Where did you see the tolerance? We've met with these workers. I've met twice with all the unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u96	An hour ago they were fired, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u97	Yeah, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u98	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u99	Well, at least twice I've met, Mr. Skourletis, the Minister of Labour, has been personally interested, and we're in constant contact with the work inspections there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u100	There aren't any. They're broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u101	You'll hear me a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Moraite, he didn't interrupt you, he heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u103	We have a working framework from the previous governments that have broken up and yet have kept accounts, because they are unpaid workers, in order to investigate what has been attributed to the workers who should and what not, on my own mandate. And there have been procedures in the two projects to start the discount procedures. Where did you see her the tolerance, so we could see her? Where did you see the tolerance? In the rest of the roads and major concession projects, this situation is almost all over Greece where such work exists. We have told the House a hundred times and publicly that, in a few days' time, we will have completed the new model that we want, which we do not believe in the way these tenders have been made, but we are not prepared on the other hand to have the Greek people pay more than it will cost him to complete the works. So we are striving, in the commitment given by the Greek public to change and to go firstly, in a fair way what everyone will pay, and secondly, in a very large reduction in tolls from existing concessions, to another system to be charged with the milestone distance - rather than what we have today on the frontal toll - in a system that makes it possible for regions which do not have safe passages, to use it freely, in the context of the municipality, and to have a certain number of free access as a result of the projects and so on. Where did you see that we've shown tolerance or that we're sitting with crossed hands? Are these things going on within a month and a half with what we've found and with the context we have? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u104	Minister, with my consent, the next time-limited question for reasons of force majeure, as I said to my fellow Members, is being moved for the next Monday, I hope not lately. That's none of your business. Thank you very much for your presence. Because Mr Mauritius means what he means, look to see - not if he is telling the truth, he is telling - what he said, that they were fired a little while ago. Check what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u105	An hour ago, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u106	An hour ago. Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u107	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u108	We enter the questions of competence of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Nadias Valvaani, which we thank for the timely attendance, as always. I see Mr. Dritsa. The same applies to Mr. Dritsa. Pressing on the innate courtesy of Mr. Geramis Giakoumatos, Mr. Theocharis, who has an urgent job and has to leave Parliament quickly, asked to reverse the order a little. So we move on to the debate on the eighteenth under No 236/19-5-2015 topical question by MP 2, Potamios Theocharis (Charis) Theocharis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the extension of the deadline for the application of Article 15 of the Law. 4321/2015 on the one-off repayment of part of the debt with a discount. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleague for the help my question gave me. Madam Minister, there have already been too many improvements to the legislative interventions that have been made to regulate the hundreds of doses by both you and the Minister responsible, Mr Skourletis, on the issues of insurance funds. Nevertheless, we see that there are still a number of problems as a whole with revenue, which is not going well, but with due time. I can refer later to the figures published by the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue. Like you, of course, and the Minister yesterday, in his briefing he made to us, he referred to the issue and told us that seven hundred and seventy-four thousand debtors have been included in the regulation, with a total regulated sum of 5.65 billion and have already received 368 million. Earlier, other publications were talking about fewer sums, but perhaps this is a matter of the time point in which the data had been received. They were talking about 3.5 billion entrants at that time. Nevertheless, I would remind you that I have asked a question from 27-3-2015 in relation to the elements of the emergency regulation - express that took place before this arrangement began. I would remind you that it was the amendment tabled by the bill of humanitarian crisis, and I would ask it to be answered, because we have not yet received an answer to the results of the voluntary payment of dues, and I may be re-subscribing it as a timely question. However, I would like you to help us and tell us why this extension has been granted and, respectively, Mr Milosevic has given it to us in legislation for a number of reasons. We would therefore like to know whether there is really this large number of requests and how many outstanding requests made by the debtors for the use of the option provided for in Article 15 of the Treaty. 4321 until 29-4-2015, and in particular how many of these requests related to the category of debtors above EUR 1 million. I would also like to ask what the number of debtors who have made use of this provision, of the debtors who were already regulated, of the amount of public revenue collected from the two categories of debtors mentioned above, as well as of the amount which was ultimately deleted in total, because we know that these arrangements are generous and delete too many of the fines - all in some cases - and in others - and in addition to the surcharges. So what amount has all debtors been deleted, in particular, for the category of debtors over 1 million? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u110	Mrs Valvain has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u111	Colleague, when we talked about a number of requests which led to the extension until 26 May and then until the final end of the arrangement up to a hundred instalments, which will be on 26 June, we were talking about phone calls, e-mail, etc. They were bombing the Ministry at the time. The figures I can give you are as follows: On 29 April 2015 they had already made use of Article 15, which is the partial advance that goes out so far from increment - only increments, because there is no question of a consolidated tax - for amounts of more than EUR 200. On the basis of the latest data I have and relate to Saturday 6-6-2015, however, the banks are three working days back - forty-five thousand and sixty-three in total have now entered the regulation of 21%, that is, nine thousand eighty-five. They were in previous arrangements and went through it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u112	What did you say about 29 April 2015, because I did not hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u113	On 29-4-2015 there were twenty-seven thousand six hundred eighty-seven people who had entered the arrangement of Article 18 for the partial advance, while on 6-6-2015 they were forty-five thousand. Of these were in previous arrangements - in any previous arrangements - 21% and had gone to this arrangement, nine thousand eighty-five. By 6-6-2015 - I always say, with a difference of three working days from the banks' point of view - advances of EUR 45.5 million had been collected and a total of EUR 571 million had been set. This amount was EUR 362 million on 29-4-2015. For more than a million people in charge, natural persons or businesses are sixteen. As cash, i.e. as a partial advance, something more than a million was collected. What amount was written out in total? A total of more than half a billion euros were set aside for regulation. To the debtors who are over a million, 808,000 euros were deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u114	Only in Mykonos, Minister, 2.5m euros were deleted from a specific operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u115	You're messing with it. You refer to the confirmed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u116	Don't interrupt, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u117	That's another one. This is Article 15 with partial payment. The partial payment referred to in Article 15 shall not include consolidated taxes. Confirmed taxes only enter for use in Article 1 with parallel use of, of course, 100 doses. I would also like to say a few words about how it has been in total, because it has been a long time since we said so. I would like to say first of all that the Prime Minister's number was correct, but it included in and the open arrangements that we know they do not always close. The closed and validated requests on the same date that the debate took place, namely on Saturdays, but on three days again because of the banks, were six hundred thousand. They involved a regulated capital, together with the surcharges and the interest-free amount of the arrangement, amounting to 4,135 billion. 20% of this amount comes from previous regulations. In other words, we see a stability. A total of 368 million were collected in cash and, together with 147 million of the express arrangement of eight days in March, we have so far exceeded half a billion in cash. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing on several occasions by Mrs. Deputy Minister.]] Total collections, along with the express settlement for 2015, of the cash-adjusted up to now is 933 million and with them are regulated and reached 2023, which closes to 234 million. I'm saying again, based on what's been closed so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u118	Madam Minister, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u119	Let me say that the response is really beyond expectation, because with these results it is absolutely legitimate to calculate that we will be able to exceed EUR 5 billion until the regulation is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u120	In view of the interest I have left you twice as much time, although in practical terms I think that this kind of question, even for Mr. Theocharis, who plays it in his hands, is better to be written. Where to keep all those numbers! You have the floor, Mr Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u121	Fortunately, we've discovered the pens, so I'm writing them a little bit. I'm trying. From what you have said to us, Minister - and I thank you very much for all the information you have given us - about what you receive in relation to Article 15. You're giving up a little less, it's the truth. You deleted 37 million in order to be able to collect 45 or, respectively, over 1 million deleted eight hundred thousand, so that you could collect a little less than 1 million. So, perhaps, around 80% to 90% of what you receive. Because this provision of Article 15 deletes the proportion of the amount which the debtor gives. It is obvious that there is more debt, greater, which will also be regulated. But it is not certain about this arrangement. It is only - the possibility of adjusting it in instalments is identical. The part relating to Article 15 is only the so-called 'prepayment' which one could give to speed up the reduction of that amount. So we see that at the moment we have reached a stage where finance, public revenues are in such a tragic situation that is almost forced to give EUR 1 for every euro that hopes to collect from such regulations. And that, I think, proves a lot of things that we are doing as relaxed as we do - and we see that, until now, the practice that you have is at the end of the month, that you come either by legislative provisions or by ministerial decisions immediately afterwards, and that you extend the arrangements for debts - and this has already started to happen - a question of the culture of payment by the taxpayers for the next month. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And that's not all. It is clear from the fact that the government can prolong - and even over the centuries, as the Prime Minister yesterday told us - these kinds of negotiation problems and continued negotiation will create great problems with receipts. After all, we are already talking about it in reports, but also in the Friday's speech by the Chief of Staff of Staff - a loss of revenue of 2 billion. The figures in April said that tax revenues were at the minus 884 million. If another 1 billion has been added to them, we are talking about 2 billion in revenue shortfall in May. This is causing great problems. We'd talked together before. We had the opportunity to speak on a topical question. Accountants are asking for extensions. E5 hasn't been opened yet. The delay in legal persons only in May, reportedly, is 550 million. This is causing great problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I've got reports here saying that only one out of ten has made a statement. You told us then that you would do better with the accountants. So the accountants are asking for extensions. And that, once we make the most critical negotiation, it will cause problems. See, please, all these issues - and the regulation issues, but also the overall income issues - so that we do not have any worse situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u122	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u123	Mr Theocharis, we really have quite a different logic and attitude. I consider it to be people who, for a very large majority, are talking about six hundred and a half thousand people and potentially over seven hundred thousand, we will certainly close over seven hundred thousand people - they are afflicted and captive in the bonds of EUR 3 000 and EUR 5 000. So when they fail to respond to the repayment of such debts, you understand what this means to their daily lives. After all, because you have also financed a Secretary-General for Public Revenue, I cannot imagine that the situation is worse today. Possibly. However, every morning I enter or leave the Ministry, people stop me coming to the General Secretariat of Public Revenues and one story is worse than the other and one is truly more desperate than the other. This is a reality in which we cannot close our eyes. Otherwise, it's gonna be like we're really analgesic. At the same time, at a time when it takes revenue for the state, collecting more than 1 billion this year - it will go beyond it - and having a regulation of more than 5 billion over the coming years, I think it is something that we need to appreciate. I think we appreciate it at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u124	Madam Minister, give it away! It's okay. I'll vote for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u125	Look, Mr. Theochari. As far as culture is concerned, what the outsiders say is that, first of all, there must be a tax conscience, it is a very good thing. But to put this first - I have said this before, but I think I will not get tired of saying it - we should have been like the year 2000 where the public's dues were 4.7%. When public dues are 40%, as they are today, saying "to pay all, perfect, I don't care about anything", it's like turning around and looking at the wall. This does not mean, however, that we must not help those who are really trying to respond. I have said - and we will do so in the tax bill for 2015 - there will be a bonus such that they feel, in any case, that the fact that they are doing all of this, is appreciated by the state. Finally, I would like to make an appeal. First...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u126	I hope, Minister, bonuses are important, more than 2%. We're talking about bonuses.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u127	Yes, Mr. President. The existing 2% will also be maintained. This is a discount rate corresponding to 6%. It's not small, that is. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I repeat, therefore, that I would like to make an appeal: to get as many of them as possible into the regulation until 26 June. I would also like to make a warning, which I said at the outset, but I am saying it again now that we are finally coming to an end, for these famous major debtors over 1 million. You know that the arrangement is about a hundred hundred and thirty. However, if I do not like to threaten or say great words, I have warned - and I would like to repeat this again - that there are six and a half thousand debtors, natural persons and businesses who have had a unique opportunity to join the regulation. For those of them - who are 99.9% - who do not do and do not do so within the next seventeen, eighteen days until the end, there will be very serious consequences, as serious as these consequences may be. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing on several occasions by Mrs. Deputy Minister.]] Finally, I should like to make - and I am ending this - an appeal to the tax administration. Unfortunately, we were unable to reach agreement on the basis - where the most important cell - in the U.S. is, so there were thousands of bank accounts being seized while we were in the arrangement. And even though we have come to legislate three weeks ago so that those who wanted to be included in the regulation could not have been able to do so because their accounts were seized, the results are rather poor. I would like to ask the tax collectors, who are actually tested in very bad working conditions, who must be very patient and who, at the same time, have plans for this, for the seizures, until the regulation is over, to show tolerance to the people who are debtors of up to EUR 3 000 to 5 000 and do not continue to freeze people who are able to enter, who are struggling to regulate and to make use of the legislative arrangements that exist, so that, if this is the case, the person is involved and wants to be regulated, they can help him, instead of many times, to leave undisturbed after many efforts that have not been able to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-five students and students and six educational attendants from the 4th Kalamaria School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are now entering the second with number 306/2-2015, a top-level question for the first-round question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the conversion of tax rates into donations for humanitarian purposes. Excellently interesting question, in my view. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Valvani. Here, Mr. Yakumato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u129	Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. Kaklamanis, I did not believe it in my eyes when I read it in the complaint of the Federation of Motorcycles in Greece of Road Goods and Passenger Transport (OFO).). It was impossible for me! If I have passed such a law, I apologise, and I do not think the legislator of Law 2961 had anticipated this gross injustice, analgesia! While we had nine missing persons - if I am not mistaken - at the NORMAN ATLANTIC which the unhappy ones all went to burn, these families with the sensitivity that they see as truck drivers have given a 1,000 euros check. I know one family. He's got three kids and he doesn't have any more resources. And while they made this ambitious effort to show social solidarity, IRS went and asked, Mrs Valvaan, 400 euros. Mercy! And that is not all, Mr President, that is not the only case. Second case: A student, Mrs Valavani, who received a scholarship from Eurobank 800 euros, goes to the curator and asks him for 320 euros back, i.e. 40%. That's incomprehensible! And I'm talking about families that are below the poverty line. Thirdly, Mr Kaklamanis: You have also served as mayor in Athens. Here comes the municipality and says, "This homeless man, get him to the hotel for free." He doesn't have to pay any proof. He's homeless. Without a single euro income. Takes the hotel and the tax office goes and cuts it self-delivery while he would normally pay if he stayed and paid VAT. And you're saying that charity is being punished today? Is the private initiative that deals with the welfare state being punished? Mrs. Valvanie, it's outrageous! Do you know what amounts we're talking about? We're talking about amounts that are detached. I mean, for the stories I tell you today, the state is to collect 4,000 euros. The question, Mrs Valvain, is this: you are four and a half months government. You have a past. Little one, but you do. Is that possible? A Lagard list case is millions of euros. A case! And that is not enough, but we are already causing these unhappy people, telling them that 'You will declare the money you have stolen and not taxed on tax' - those who have not been taxed, because they are not all - and with 15% legalising. And don't bring them to Greece. Well, that's two yards and two weights. I never expected a left-wing government, which claims to be left-wing, with such a'sensitivity' to deal with such issues. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u130	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u131	I fully agree, not in your conclusion, but in your criticism of the specific issues, Mr Jakoumato, with a small correction: that all this legislative framework is the result of the Code of Income Tax, the new one, voted in the summer of 2013 and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u132	I did. The legislator, Mrs. Valabani, did not foresee it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Yakumato, he didn't see it coming. He predicted it negatively.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u134	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u135	He predicted this to happen. I will tell you that it is really unacceptable to tax as a donation of 40% of solidarity, like the Federation of Car Trucks to the families of NORMAN ATLANTIC. And I will also agree that it is disastrous to tax as high institutions that really substitute social functions of the state, such as the SOS Children's Villages, as are the summer institutions that have the only oldest home in Heraklion, etc. Of course, I have to tell you about student grants that they are not taxed by the 2013 legislative framework itself - those granted by the State - as is the awards granted by the State, as is mentioned in the POL 1094 of 17 April 2015 of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u136	Oh, no. Private. The bank is a private body. And I told you about the bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u137	On Norman ATLANTC, I have to tell you that I read in a newspaper today that instead of talking to the Secretary-General of Public Income, we are writing. This, of course, has nothing to do with reality. But when there is a matter of serious and different interpretations, it helps to record the views to clarify what we are going to do. I personally considered the case of ‘NORMAN ATLANTC’ to be covered by the above mentioned POL and which, in Article 5, characterises no donations, but aids the sums paid to vulnerable social groups and which are not taxed. I read Article 5: "The sums paid as financial aid - aid to vulnerable social groups, elderly people, people with mental illnesses, homeless people, people with disabilities, etc. by public or other public or private bodies, they do not fall within any category of income referred to in Article 7 and are therefore not taxed’. There was, however, another view on the part of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, the view that legislation needs and is not covered by it. And that's what I'm gonna do. In the next few days, a very mini draft law with various tax arrangements will be submitted to Parliament this week. There will also be a provision in which both the automotive aid will be named to the families of the victims of the ‘NORMAN ATLANTIC’, as well as any other aid to these families within the next six months, with the final date of 31 December 2015, as tax-free. Of course, this should be seen as an opportunity to show practical social solidarity from much wider parts, beyond the colleagues of the wronged people in the shipwreck.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u138	I think you will have unanimous support for this House. But don't forget, Minister, that rarely the public now gives prizes and scholarships. So, as Mr Yakoumatos said, private operators should be included. Mr. Yakumato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u139	Mrs Valvaani, I accept that n. 2961 - where we are talking about a code of taxation - it has escaped. The legislator did not consider these cases. Too bad, but he didn't have it. They apologized if they knew? The question, however, is that in a few days, as you said, you will legislate. And you told us half, that is, when the donation goes as a help, it won't be taxed. That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u140	Aid isn't taxed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u141	Help. When it's a donation, like this one is, it's gonna be a help. That, however, needs to be regulated. And I tell you quite clearly that you will not be sailing between the Secretariat of Tax Revenue and the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of State - Deputy Minister, Mr Varoufakis. Law 2961, Article 44(2) states clearly: 'The cause of donation is calculated automatically at a rate of 40%'. That's what you need to change. So put limits here. Put 2,000, 3,000. Because this law was intended - and it is right - where all monkey donations were made and tax avoided by the prosperous, moneyless, catching them, not having this window. This is another aid - as you say - is another. But he wants legislation. By the way, Minister, let me add something. Because I had three and a half years in IKA and had to collect certain debts - it is my position, Mr President, but let my colleagues think about it, let the government think about it - the horizontal arrangements never have a future. Never! She comes in, regulates Mrs Valavani - for the 5 billion you receive - and then she cannot pay the current - that's the problem - and comes out of the arrangement. So you should look a little bit at whether it is done and, on a case-by-case basis, over 30,000 or up to 30,000 -- well you say - in a hundred, hundred and fifty instalments, what poverty can make it easier. That is what I agree with you. But for over 30,000 I had acted. And I tell you that on 31-12-1993 - look at the budget of IKA - I left 19 billion drachmas in IKA for the first time. Take the budgets and see them. I'm telling you as a suggestion to discuss it and accept it. I had, therefore, made a suspension committee, Mr President, with the commander of the IKA, the Director-General of the IKA, the Head of Finance, the Representative of the GFCM, a representative of the employer, and we were looking at each case separately, and regulated according to the possibilities of the operation. This is very important. See the Suspension Committee, because this law regulates and regulates. I hope your optimism comes true. I fear, however, that Mr Papandreou too, because Mrs Katseli had told him that she had money to collect and that money, the bankrupt debts of the public and IKA, are the Aegean fractions, are companies that have been bankrupt and there is no franc. So, Mrs Valavani, be careful, because it's about the country's finances. Be careful not to get her the way we've had her with the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u142	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Yakumate, it may be in the same bill, but, as you know, the debts to the Social Security Funds are regulated by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u144	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u145	As part of the Ministerial Council, he meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u146	I told you one opinion. My opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u147	We coexist in the same bill. The issue of donations I am determined to change, because I think that not only 40% for those who have no close relatives is completely analgesic, but the others that are lower. So why should a father who gives his adult children - who may be unemployed - money to be able to live, have to pay 10%, once he is already taxed for that money and double taxation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u148	I'll support it. I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u149	Or if I give, like, a brother or a sister, you have to pay 20%, 1/5...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u150	As far as poverty is concerned, we are with you. For the hospitality of the needy, I can't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u151	All right, let the Minister finish. He can say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u152	Look, I am not a legal person, and I do not want to risk it, but I would say that from what I read - the passage from POL - which, first of all, I would say that it could fit without the need for legislation and the issue of NORMAN ALTANTIC. You'll see there's an express reference to homeless people, and he's talking about help to homeless people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u153	If he is hosting, Mrs. Valavani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u154	Isn't it practical help giving shelter? Isn't it a practical help, which is valued in money?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u155	He's being breached by the tax office, and he's writing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u156	You're old. You know the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u157	He's in violation!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u158	I know, he got it. Let her answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u159	I want to make it easier. The taxi is in breach of the homeless person that the hotel is hosting him for free.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u160	The hotel owner means he's in breach.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u161	I get it. I have a problem that you referred to before and I think it had something to give in 2013 - in part - the change that took place in relation to donations, but not at these levels, in the fact that there was a whole story where there was an increase with a number of millions of personal enrichment parties from non-governmental organisations and it had to be the legislator careful. That is why we must be very careful - and I do not think it could be done in a few days' time - how to change the issue of donations, because it is not enough to reduce the percentages. We must ensure at the same time that this does not lead to the well-known situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u162	Extreme poverty. Put the money in. It can't be over 500-600 euros a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u163	The question and the answer were interesting. Here we go. We move to the seventeenth under number 225/18-5-2015 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Fthiotidas Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Staikouras to the Finance and National Defence Ministers on the infrastructure of the School of Positive Sciences of the University of Thessaly. The Deputy Minister of Finance will answer Mr Nadia Valvani. Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u164	Minister, you are well aware that the potential positive contribution of education, research and technology and innovation to the holistic and sustainable development of the country and all regions is scientifically documented. I believe that we all agree that both the Region of Central Greece and its core, namely the wider region of Lamia, should not and should not be an exception in the sense of being deprived of these critical factors. About three years ago, under the project "Athena", the abolition of the University of Central Greece, based in Lamia, in which two sections operated, in Lamia and in Livadia, was compensated by the establishment of the School of Positive Sciences of the University of Thessaly, based in Lamia. In this context, Minister, there are two sections of 'Informatics with Applications to Biomedical' and 'Informatics', as you know. While from the beginning of this year it has also been a Postgraduate Postgraduate Program with a cognitive subject "Informatics and Computational Biomedicine". Also, the Region of Central Greece was incorporated - structurally - very recently on the National Research - Innovation Charter. However, it is certain that the necessary promotion of the quality of university education in our country requires, in addition to academic staff, that all appropriate logistical infrastructures be made directly available. In this direction, since the end of 2013, specific initiatives were taken by the Ministries of Economic and National Defence, to grant a specific area to Lamia for the construction of building infrastructures for university education, research and innovation. The conditions laid down by the Ministry of National Defence were fully met by the Ministry of Finance. To promote this project, there was cooperation between the University of Thessaly and the Municipality of Lamianes. The final transfer of the relevant piece of land, which was assessed as the most appropriate for the use mentioned above, reached its end, after acceptance of the distribution between the University of Thessaly and the Municipality of Lamies. Thus, the Municipality of Lamiones and the University of Thessaly from April 24, 2015 accept the concession of an area of 105.420,40 sqm. from the National Defence Fund, as well as its sharing between the Municipality of Lamies as an intermediary for the construction of infrastructure for innovation research and the University of Thessaly for the construction of infrastructure for the School of Positive Sciences. Recently, a few days later on this distribution, on 29 April, there was a letter from the signatory today, the timely question to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, with a view to speeding up the procedures. With the completion of this process, I believe that the initiative is being promoted decisively, with regard to the treatment of the actual time-consuming infrastructure deficit for university education in Lamia, the headquarters of the Region of Central Greece. Mr Minister, following on from this, and with the assessment that we are confronted with political perception, but also with practical practice, that the issues which only benefit from the country's progress must be immediately closed down, I ask you exactly when the procedure for granting this area will be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u165	Mrs Valvaani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u166	My colleague, I really feel very uncomfortable in answering you because I feel, as far as I looked at the issue, that you should have addressed this question to the Ministry of Education before the Ministry of Finance. Somehow the cart is ahead of the horse, despite the horse in front of the car. The answer to when to complete the concession of the space you ask me could be very easy. It could really, very quickly today, be completed, after the General Accounting Office paid EUR 950,000 to the Ministry of National Defence for the cost of relocating the section of the camp on April 15, 2015 and after signing that they accepted the concession of the use by the Ministry of National Defence, the Mayor of Lamia and the Rector of the University of Thessaly on April 24, this year, as he already mentioned. The land belongs to the Ministry of Finance and was assigned for use in the army for camp. We also found the registration book number on public property. I would therefore say to you, if the situation were different, that the only thing left is the setting-up of the Local Public Buildings Commission, which is a matter of a few weeks, that is, a matter of a few weeks' time. A piece of land is intended to create a research centre from the Municipality of Lamia. The decision was taken by Mr von Wogau. Article 13a. I am learning that in a draft law by the Ministry of Education, which will be submitted to Parliament in the next few weeks, this article is abolished because, for the creation of research centres and institutes, an economic study, a feasibility and sustainability study and a compatibility report with strategic and development planning must be preceded. In these studies, which apparently do not exist, it must be clear what socio-economic need is served by the establishment of the organisation, which is not already covered by existing scientific bodies. These studies must also be approved by the relevant Minister, Mr Fotakis, the Deputy Minister for Research and Technology. It seems that there has been no consultation with him. Secondly, the Faculty of Positive Sciences in Lamia, which was founded in 2013, if I am not mistaken, is a school without the classical objects of a school of positive sciences, with two schools of Informatics and Computers with Applications to Biomedical, separated from the rest of the body of the University of Thessaly and related to each other. There is a major problem in relation to the fact that there is no strategic study for their development. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In other words, the second year is ending since the establishment of this school and there is no staff at all - they come from Volos and Larissa to do the lessons - and there will be a very serious problem of time, which is too many lessons, compared to the first two years. The University of Thessaly is already in four prefectures and cities, and they consider it extremely questionable that they can strategically support these two sections. Operational appropriations are minimal over these two years and were not enough in previous years. In the Ministry of Education’s National Public Investment Program there has been an integrated project for a decade to set up buildings in this area for the University of Thessaly from 2005 to 2008 with two million, which were not absorbed, and from 2009 to 2014 with one and a half million, which also had zero absorption. And it is doubtful whether there will be a reintegration for 2015. After all this, I would say that, before we end up with the delivery of the space, you should contact the Ministry of Education. I would also say that the Municipality of Lamites and the University of Thessaly should discuss with the Ministry of Education and, respectively, the Deputy Minister of Research and Technology, so as to see how things are realistically formulated and what can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mrs Valavani. Mr. Stavura, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u168	Madam Minister, I have listened with great attention and interest to your position. It is obvious and obvious that I also disagree on the basis of your position. First of all, you said to the Ministry of Education, but you have been on the subject of the Ministry of Education, while the question concerns only the Ministry of Finance and a pre-process, which has been in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence for the last two years. I disagree with the view that you expressed on utility, the need for a School of Positive Sciences in Lamia, in the area of Central Greece, because I have a different approach from you it seems to me to be about the potential positive contribution of research, innovation, education and development to holistic and sustainable development - as I said in my prototype - not only of the country but also of the regions. On this point, it is well known that the timeless infrastructure deficit was a key cause of this low participation of the Region of Central Greece and especially of Lamia on the map of the country's university education, with adverse consequences for its course. The money you have said from the Public Investment Programme is not about the space we are discussing today. I am sure - or I was sure until you were placed - that as an economist you share the position of economic science that education, research and technological development and innovation are the main institutional mechanisms for promoting sustainable development, employment and social cohesion, that they produce and distribute a variety of benefits and positive externalities, with positive effects on all aspects of life. The state has a debt, but also a benefit to create in the Region of Central Greece - and first of all at its headquarters, Lamia - the conditions for the structures to function effectively and of quality, contrary to what you have said. I understand, Minister, the difficulties of the current situation and the problems you have to face, not only in this ministry, but as a government as a whole. We have also faced them, you know, over the past two and a half years, when we have even received a much lesser situation. However, during this period, as far as possible, in contrast to what you said, the basic conditions for the immediate operation of the School of Sciences in Lamia were met, the necessary changes were made to the percentages of budget allocations to help directly the University of Thessaly, and the conditions - which are the subject of today's question - for the fullest, better physical infrastructure in another area were created. Madam Minister, I think - and I want you to know this - that the social and political forces in the region support in general terms the accession strategy of Central Greece, first of all, at its headquarters, Lamia, gradually and evenly, with the seats of the other regions on the national map of higher education, research and technological development and innovation. I ask you all to take this new decisive step together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Does the Minister wish to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u170	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. I said I was uncomfortable, because as you can see, I had to go in - and look for it, to see what happens - in the fields of another ministry, which I wouldn't do, under any circumstances. In the question, however, 'When will it be over', if there was no other problem, the answer would be 'In a few weeks'. It is precisely because I discovered that there are all these problems, so I could not - without mentioning to explain - say 'within a few weeks', as I would say otherwise. I would also like to say that what I said has nothing to do with the difficulties of the current situation. The question is whether it is right and much more from the point of view of the research centre, but also of the fact that it is necessary to ensure that university schools have the necessary resources and have the necessary staff and have the necessary conditions so that children can actually learn. From what I learned from the Administrative Body of the University of Thessaly, there is a member of the board, no teacher, and they are all transferred, and they aptly asked what would happen next year. That is why I think that all these are issues which need to be addressed in a perspective, much more when we are talking about the creation of a university campus at the moment, but which must be made - and we must really decide to make it - to reflect on the future prospects of the region. This cannot be guaranteed by the Treasury. This is a debate to be held with the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Minister, and you, Mr. Stakoura. The nineteenth will be developed under number 251/20-5-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the completion of outstanding tax controls. The Deputy Minister of Finance will answer Mr Nadia Valvani. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I enter the well-known issue of completing the ongoing tax controls, particularly in cases of an increase in undeclared income. Minister, on the basis of information published in the media, but also brought to my attention, there is a very large number of transferred tax cases, income audit reports for 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 from regional addresses of the IASA, which relate to an increase in property from undeclared income, fully documented by the processing of detailed bank accounts movements, in order to capture the amount of tax evasive, where appropriate, and to investigate their exploitation in the selection process, for case control by the relevant departments of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. According to unconfirmed information, the relevant indicative list sent in early 2014 by the Regional IORP at Attica for the years 2012-2013 includes about a hundred and fifty cases of around 120 million euros. On the basis of the above information, the vast majority of these cases have not proceeded to final control, resulting in a huge loss of public revenue. In view of the above, and with common sense, you ask, Madam Minister: Have you checked how many of these outstanding cases are up to 30-4-2015 regarding the cases of a property increase, as I describe above? Secondly, at what stage are the relevant final tax controls in these cases? When are they expected to be completed? How can they be accelerated so that they can be completed as soon as possible, that is to say to the public by the end of 2015? What is the reason for the delay in completing the checks? Is it a question of lack of staff, of insufficient efficient organisation, of lack of means, of incomplete methodology or anything else? If it's any of the above, how do you plan to overcome these obstacles? If it is a matter of staff - I shall shorten the fourth question - why do we not do - as I call it - a 'tax mobility'? Since your Ministry and our Government are primarily targeting the revenues and because we need the direct staffing of all the tax mechanisms, why don't we proceed to an exceptional tax mobility from all the ministries so that we can have the revenue we need in 2015? Finally, does the evaluation and prioritisation of the above controls fully take advantage of the ‘ELENXIS’ system, in order to classify these assumptions from the top of the audit table? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Nadia Valvaani, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u174	Dear colleague, by 30-4-2015, the Special Secretariat of the IORP was forwarded to the competent IORP and to the central audit centres of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue of five hundred ninety-seven cases of the increase of undeclared income. The relevant departments of the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue must today publish the relevant inventories, in cases where the provisions of Article 25 of the Act are fulfilled. 4321 of 21 March 2015, in order to constitute audit reports or to issue a direct audit order for those who have not, for example, been heard by the interested party, are not complete. There is no picture of the amounts that have been collected from the services as a whole, because the DIFs they have undertaken to carry out are scattered across Greece. The General Secretariat of Public Revenue will, however, gather this information and make it available to you. In relation to the issue of priorities, ELENXIS is of course also used, but I would say that the criteria are more complicated. There is a matrix, based on the different lists from which who are found in all, so it is obvious that they are prioritised. There is an attempt to create an electronic depository for those who have relatively high deposits. This week, a decision of the Minister of State for the second phase of the working party on the bank register will be taken to enable it to be completed with the assistance of the Union of Greek Banks and the Bank of Greece, to have a relatively complete computer file from the autumn. I would also say that through the 'automatic' - with many introductorys, because there is no such electronic control - there will be an advanced operational procedure which limits tax evasion and corruption over time. A second issue is the single organisation of the whole tax mechanism for carrying out uniform and effective controls. A third element, which is now a consciousness of the whole - I think - of the tax mechanism is that there must be a certain reconstitution of control elements, not to go back to the past. However, there can be no books, for example, and there is, in fact, no possibility of preventive control, except that the workshop is set up outside or that there are some sort of shipping packages which cannot be used in such a way that, in the same consignment note, continuous consignments of goods are carried. It also needs to be addressed - and there are some thoughts about this - and the issue with the surrogate persons, who, as you know, are partial, poor people, many of them are even political refugees, who have papers so that they can stay in Greece, and to whom, when a check takes place, these monstrous fines of the CVC come after them, they don't have them anyway, and if they are foreigners, they are fleeing and, in fact, the story ends there. I would like to say in this respect that in the context of preventive controls this year, and because there is a shortage of staff at all levels - on the issues of the tax mechanism I will speak in my dentistry - there is a decision to have mixed synergies from these one, two people from the ILO, who can go out with police officers, with the economic police where there is even the few in the province of public property. Each one of them can't control his object, but all of us together can form decent five-member or six-member workshops and do as much of his work as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u176	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. I am very pleased with the details you have given, because I understand that the technically 'we have the issue', to say it popular, and I hope that the systems will work as soon as possible. A first question was whether there is compatibility of the systems, of ELENXIS, of the ‘TAXIS’ or of the new ‘TAXIS’, at the crossroads, because I know that the fields are many and are very well-built, but I do not know whether there is compatibility so that we can take the lists as a priority as we should. The second question is as follows. I have in my hands a small analysis of the positions and shortcomings of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority against Crime and Financing of Terrorism, etc. I have a full analysis. The total number of posts planned is five hundred and twenty-five, of the active up to mid-2013, which I have the analysis, is two hundred seventy-four, and this is about the previous government. I just want to see where we are today. I don't expect you to answer, because it wasn't part of my question, only if you know it. It is, however, important to mention that, in the Minutes, the agency - I repeat - is working against the black money by a hundred and fifty employees and by that, of the hundred and fifty employees who are missing, ninety-seven are university education, that is, they are actually the ones who are doing the job. In other words, 64% of those missing are the ones who can do the job. Of all staff today, only sixty are auditing capacities, i.e. 58%. In fact, we have many employees, but we miss university education or rather, we miss them, since the data is about 2013. Of the people we have, about 60% are the ones doing the checks, and 40% are the ones sitting or doing another job. Because for the work of revenue and controls to bring revenue to the public, I believe that the percentages should be upside down, there should be much more people who do the checks and than those who are missing to be fewer administrative and more academics, so that we can bring the desired results, because that is why we are controlling ourselves at the end of the day. As to whether or not we will bring equals and not equivalents, I would rather not now go into the subject of the procedure, which these institutions are also putting us in these days. In conclusion, I would like to say that what has fallen into my hands and what I have been told, in relation to 120 million, from about a hundred fifty cases, I imagine is part of the five hundred ninety-seven list you mentioned to me. I would like us to do our best together and any assistance you want I can give it to you, so that we have the revenue this year to help the public as well, in relation to the difficult situation in the negotiations with the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u178	All help is acceptable, in all respects, indeed. I would like to say that there is compatibility. What does not exist and needs to be updated among the systems you mention. They need to drop money - because they have too many years to throw money - so that all these information systems do not work solely on the enormous efforts that a few dozen people are doing in IT and who, I can tell you, are working almost all weekends. Only if he's got a three-day thing, they don't come. You get them both at ten and eleven and at twelve o'clock every day. It is very easy, in other words, to get together and find them, unfortunately. They're doing a superhuman job, but that's not good enough. It takes money to be able to make all these systems much safer, which are literally working over the years with ballasts. That is what we are doing so far - a small amount here and there, so that the regulation can be opened, tax declarations can be opened, etc. It can't go too far. I would like to tell you what the situation with the staff is. First of all, all the tax control mechanism is really bloody. All the Memorandum policies have passed over it. Thousands of people were driven, violently, into early retirement, beyond those who would otherwise be normal, so there is nowhere to be enough time for anything at all. Neither to the DUs nor to the customs offices or to the ILO nor to the Anti-Fraud Authority for Black Money you mentioned nor to the Financial Prosecutors. There is, in general, a terrible situation. It is characteristic that against these thousands of people who left the Ministry of Finance over the last few years, most of whom have been experienced, in 2013 they became an eighty-sixteen recruits from IK 2013, in 2014 they became two hundred eight and still remain eighty for this year and since 2014, they were transferred 15 days ago and were known as the four hundred sixty-five posts from the General Secretariat of Public Revenues, directly from the labour market. This year, the appropriations for 2015 have not yet been opened. There are three hundred - all - more than in previous years - and if all four hundred and sixty-five of the labour market are added. The point is, however, that if we assume that four hundred sixty-five are exclusively for the needs of the General Secretariat of Public Incomes, namely for the DUs and customs, and for the information systems there, there should be hundreds of hundreds of people in the ILO, as they request, they should go a hundred and fifty, at least, to the financial prosecutors - I must tell you that they are asking for almost double - and, of course, there should also be some centralised ones for the General Secretariat of Information Systems and probably also for the other central offices of the Ministry. In other words, although much more auditors will be hired this year than in previous years, the situation, in terms of needs, is really bad. The worst is that, until the procedures of the AACC can be completed - which are not new, it is by taking the children who had passed and waited for years to get them, because there are rhythms that are difficult to break, but we all have to make an effort to change them - it is clear that these figures will not actually be able to come before autumn at best. That leaves a very big question about the next period of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u179	The fifth will be developed under number 701/45/11-3-2015 question and application for the submission of documents by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Finance, concerning the inventory and disclosure of rented buildings of the public and measures to limit the cost of buildings leased. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Nadia Valvani. Mr Dimitras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in addition to collecting revenue with the great effort being made in this area, we must also try to reduce the State's expenditure. The cost of renting the real estate that the State uses is much greater than the current rent values of the respective real estate. In the past, he had employed the press the waste that is being done for the renting of buildings, when there is no small amount of public buildings left untapped. For example, there are two recent examples. More famous is the case of a building of 32,000 sqm. the Ministry of Health, which employs fifteen people and costs 3.5 million to 4 million euros, the Minister of Health, Mr Kurublis, told the media. In the same logic, the Deputy Minister, Mr Mardas, who referred to the press at the "Enterprise Greece", which costs the public 400,000 euros, public and rent, while there is a private building in Ilioupoli that is not used. I would like to ask whether the Ministry has drawn up a plan to reduce the operating costs of public services by using public buildings or by finding rented buildings, at less cost. I call on the House to submit a complete statement of all the real estate rented by the public, ministries and decentralised administrations to ensure that there is transparency and comparative control. This must include property elements, address, space surfaces by level (ground floor, ground floor, floors, etc.) the total surface area of main-use sites, as well as the total surface area of the public, the year of completion of each building, the development of the amounts which each building costs to the public to date, and - I would say - who has recommended the various leases. Because I will tell you in my denture what I have seen in the Attica Region - which I was a regional consultant - in the respective cases of rented buildings where we paid multiples and - three and four times more - from the commercial rental values of buildings. So you're welcome for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Deiaras. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u182	Mr Colleague, I fully agree that the waste that is being spent on renting buildings that the public rents for its services, when there are empty buildings, ready for housing or about ready - at least a number of them - which belong to the public, is both politically and economically undetermined. Of course, in this case, it does not belong to the essentially empty health ministry building with the fifteen people in some tens of thousands of square metres and a rent of EUR 3 million per year, notified by the Minister of Health to the press and mentioned in your question. This building, as well as the empty but fully renovated building of "Kerani" in Piraeus, is the most extreme cases of the most extreme privatisation scandal of the previous period. It is two of the twenty-eight public buildings, including the Ministry of Justice, Culture, Homeland, Health and Education, thirteen DU buildings, the GADA building and the Headquarters of Police in Thessaloniki, which in November 2013 were sold to two groups using the ‘Sale and Lease Back’ method of ‘Sale and Lease Back’, the National team of ‘PANGAIA’, belonging to an Israeli-owned fund based in Amsterdam, and the other one to Eurobank Properties, which is owned by a majority of ‘Fairfax’. Why is this the most devastated political scandal? For many reasons, which are not the time, but before all, because buildings that were building free ministries, DUs, police headquarters, etc. They were sold instead of EUR 261 million, that is, EUR 960 per square metre, and submitted to the account of creditors for the debt of the Bank of Greece and thus the Greek State was obliged to pay 30 million per year for twenty years guaranteed rent, namely, a total of EUR 600 million plus insurance, plus regular maintenance of the buildings for these twenty years. So, now, it continues to pay 6 million a year for empty "Corran" and the almost empty building of the Ministry of Health either filled or empty without any business risk and with huge return for new buyers. And it is such a situation that, when the two companies appeared in the Ministry of Finance last June to collect their first rents, there was not even a budget line for the twenty-eight buildings in the state budget and for the remainder of 2014 the Ministry of Finance paid the rent from its reserves. This budget breach was then not annoyed by any of those who are shouting today because there was no provision for the re-entry of school guards or cleaners. If the story of the twenty-eight houses is a history of political suicide at the time of the memorials, the building in Ilioupoli, which is not meant to house the "Enterprise Greece", but the merged ones in a former DU Iliopolis and Argyroupoli, which today are still housed in two separate buildings, with a total annual rental of 280,000 euros, is a history of classical passionateness of the Greek public. This is a building with two wings that were housed by the Export Promotion Agency, the OPE, which was closed by the previous government, on a land belonging to ETAD and was allocated to the OPE to build its building. In one of these wings we should have moved the single currency over last year. This has not been possible because the OPE clearer refuses to move from the fifth floor of the left wing to its second floor across the wing. At the same time, in another part of the building that the DU is to be relocated the DU holds offices, after a free concession from the OPE, prior to its location in liquidation, various links, such as the Hellenic Association of Distillates of Spirits, National Organisation of Vine and Wine, Greek Wine and others, who refuse to leave. Today the process of their administrative misappropriation is under way. I would like you to take it and take it into account and any other colleagues who want it, forty-nine pages, with all the buildings rented by the Ministry of Finance in the central administration. It is not all the things you ask for, but most of the things you are not, it is not possible, because they cannot be gathered. It's just like they come out of the computer system that tracks them. They include the name of the service that is housed, the address, the starting date of the current contract, the expiry date, the area and the monthly rental in 2011, the first reduction by law, 2012, the second reduction by law and today’s rental. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Olga - Nadia Valvaani, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In total, it is a thousand seven hundred ninety-five buildings housed in a total of one thousand seven hundred seven different public services, i.e. about a thousand eight hundred services in a thousand eight hundred buildings. In 2011, before the first reduction, EUR 109 million a year was paid for them and today, after the two successive reductions, 84 million euros a year are paid. It is a very important amount, when much more there are buildings which, at least part of them, could house the corresponding services. For our policy of limiting this situation, I shall refer to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Dimitras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. As you can see, this is a big issue and possibly a great scandal. I lived in the Attica Region and had asked the District Administrator a corresponding question at that time, and when the situation was given to me, because as an engineer I know of real estate, I found that for real estate that, if they were hired at that time, would not work more than 10.12 thousand per month, the Region would pay 67 000 per month. For other properties, in particular in Vineyards, in large buildings where the lease value was EUR 10 per square metre, the Region and the Decentralised Administration paid EUR 32 per square metre and this was after the reductions. Before the 20% cuts and again 20% paid over 52 euros the square metre, i.e. five times above. Here, too, I think it is an economic, political and moral issue, some who are still speculating at the expense of the public interest and the Greek people. Because we know there were set-up contests, photographic provisions in the rental of buildings. And it is not justified here, otherwise, that such great differences between lease values and real trading values are not justified. Unfortunately, however, even today, as I know today, because I was following the situation, and the Attica Region pays buildings of three or four times the rent. In other words, we have to do something to stop this process. As the 20% and 20% reductions were then, twice, we need to do something to rethink each lease. And of course I know this, which for me is scandalous, that they were given with leasing properties that in a few years they get their money back with yields of over 11% a year, guaranteed and their money in real estate, when the corresponding returns are of the order of 3% -4%. Therefore, this issue that we are discussing seems to me to be the biggest issue of the day. We have to deal with it, so that people know what has happened and what has to be done, to stop these phenomena, because we have taken as a government, as parties that support the government, a mandate, to stop strife, to stop the theft of public money. And we may have to check not only the economic sizes, but also see who has recommended these leases, because they do not know every time the respective who always signs them, where, of course, they are clear, big differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Deiaras. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifteen students and students and two teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Giannitson. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. For a policy, so that as many public services as possible are housed in as much as possible suitable and in good public buildings, we need to know two things. We know about one thing, it is what I have tabled: that is to say, that we should know precisely, at least in terms of financial costs, what we are renting. But we do not know what we own, that is to say, the whole, and as systematically as necessary, of the real estate of the public. In other words, the state does not know exactly what it owns and what state all its real estate is. It is currently under way and is expected that at the end of this year we will complete the programme of digital public property services and national heritage, with which we will now be able to record and keep up-to-date - because if you do not keep up with your information, you have done nothing - of the state property register. In this way, the public will be able, at any time, to know what it owns and to use it for its benefit. However, this record, apart from successfully completing this digital public service programme, presupposes the cooperation and coordination of too many public service bodies, ministries, legal persons governed by public law, OTAs, private-law legal persons, to whom the Greek State is a shareholder. The Ministry of Finance has received an extremely problematic situation and we think it is difficult, no matter what we do - and we do various things at this time - to really be able to deal with this problem in the radical way it needs if it has not taken a picture of what it has in its possession in terms of public property. Secondly, many state-owned properties, which could house services, because they are on suitable points and have the relevant area, etc., are tragic in terms of maintenance and a large sum is needed for the restoration and subsequent housing of public services. The Ministry of Finance is working on and will soon have an integrated plan to find economic resources and channel them to the maintenance of public property, so that it is possible to directly migrate public services and thus save resources from the reduction of rented property. Finally, with regard to the twenty-eight houses, I should like to say that it is currently under way - it has been initiated before the elections, but today we are working together and providing any evidence we can find, in relation to what we are asking us - an investigation by the Prosecutor of Corruption, by Mrs Triantafyllo, a judicial investigation into the issue of the twenty-eight real estates of the public which were sold using the'sale and please back' method. And hopefully there will be results, from which we will be able to draw conclusions on the general policy of the Greek State against public property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Minister. We're done with you today. Before the three topical questions addressed to Mr Theodoros Dricas are developed, I will read the vacantly timely questions. The third, with number 289/29-5-2015, top-stage question of the Achaea MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Michael Arvanitis to the Minister of National Defence, on Turkish air space violations and Greek territorial waters will not be discussed due to a Minister's blockade. The sixth question, under number 287/29-5-2015, is the first question of the Evian MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavraanis to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the reopening of the ELECTROMHANIC KYPE plant, its inclusion in the administrative structure of the Ministry of National Defence and the reopening of the local economy, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment. The seventh question under number 292-2-2015, first question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Minister for Economic Affairs, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the progress of PPP contracts (Public/ Private Sector Operations) for the management of waste, will not be discussed after consultation of the MEP with the relevant Minister. The third, with number 277/27-5-2015, timely question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the River Mr. Spyridon Danellis to the Minister of National Defence, on the need for the immediate recruitment of AACC successors to meet the needs of the Greek Air Industry (ESA), will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The fourth under number 303/2-2015 topical question of the second-cycle question of the Athens Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning measures to protect the country's anti-nuclear protection, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment. The sixth question, number 219/14-5-2015, topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the provocative action of Macedonians in Florina, will not be discussed due to a Minister's obstruction. Ninth under number 234/18-5. - an opportune question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on bilateral relations with neighbouring countries and the proclamation of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, will not be discussed as a result of a Minister's impediment. Fifteenth under number 168/28-4. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the transfer of our Macedonian name to the Skopjes, will not be discussed as a result of a Minister's impediment. Finally, the second question by MP II of the People's Association of Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "Aydinlik" that "Turkey proceeded to a committee for the claim of sixteen Greek islands", will not be discussed as a result of a Minister's impediment. We are now entering the topical questions to Mr Theodore Dritsa. First the fifth will be developed under number 302-6-2015, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament's Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the problems of the ferry transport of Lemnos and Agios Efstratios. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Theodores Dritsas. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. In his speech to the House yesterday, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras once again stated his commitment to the European idea and his willingness to compromise. The European idea, of course, is summarised in three words: profit maximisation - and what this entails in wages and hunger pensions of EUR 200-300, in digestible and subordinated workers, in taxables, especially through the most unfair and mutilated indirect taxes, such as VAT, on permanent and unconstitutionally regulated tax exemptions for large capital, such as the fifty-six constitutionally regulated tax exemptions for shipowners, which correspond to EUR 10 billion a year, but also the subsidies again for shipowners amount to EUR 100 million a year for barren lines. These lines are called barren, because due to the small market they are high-efficiency barren, especially in the winter months, for shipowners. Because if the existence of a daily connection with airborne modern ships, with cheap tickets, is beyond the basic need to move passengers and supply products and the issue of loss of revenue due to the summer tourist season, their shortage during the winter season is a matter of survival for the inhabitants of these islands. It is the European ideal and legislative framework that derives from it, which allows for pro-strategic and sub-servient ships over thirty-five years old - the "TAXIARTH" type or "EXTERNATIONAL PEGASOS" which has replaced "TAXICH" on the line Lavrio - Agios Efstratios - Limnos - Kavala - with frequent damage, delays and great risks to the protection of human life in the sea since last Thursday, but also unprecedented, of course, always the profit and not the need to communicate the people of these islands. The direction for the legal solution of the issue with the discount of "NEL" and the quarterly contract with "EXFECTS PEGASOS" does not give a definitive solution to the problem, since all the legislative framework that gives shipowners the right to go in favour of ships whenever they want and with any ticket prices they want, to pay whenever they want and as long as they want the seafarers, remains. Hope lies in the coordinated struggles of islanders and seafarers. The struggle for an exclusively state single transport operator on the basis of the fulfilment of modern popular needs and not the interests of shipowners remains up-to-date. So we ask what you will do about the uninterrupted day-to-day connection between Lemnos and Agios Efstratios with central and northern Greece as well as the other islands of the northern Aegean for the whole year, about the return of the route of Thessaloniki, about the reduction of tickets and other vehicles by 50%, about the provision of free tickets for the unemployed, for special prices for sensitive social groups (students, pensioners, AMEOs), about the direct payment of wages to all seamen and all workers, about the defence and application of collective labour contracts by seafarers, about the abolition of the tax exemption for shipowners - taxation of distributed and unpaid profits of large capital with 45% - public ports and airports at the service of the people and the abolition of laws that privatise ports, shipyards, airports and airports. In my dentext, I shall also refer to the issue that has now been raised with the vessels tied to Lavrio - lately, both in Drapetsona and in Samos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister Theodore Dritsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, with your question - and in particular with the way you have developed it - you have opened too many issues. Indeed, Agios Efstratios and Limnos have been overcompensated in recent years - their inhabitants, visitors, islanders - for precisely because the company and ship serving the line Lavrio - Agios Efstratios - Lemnos, with the ultimate purpose of Kavala, did not fulfil its contractual obligations for a long time. I can assure you that all possibilities have been exhausted on the part of the Ministry in a context that is, as to some extent you described - I will add and I will describe - almost forbidden for alternatives now. The one-ways and finally the ending, as things have evolved, of the discount on this company's contract to be undeniable liability, was precisely to be covered by the procedure followed at the expense of the islands for a very long time, whose protests we fully understand and understand. It seems now that, with these conditions described and for the next period, things and the Lavrio-Efstratios-Lemnos line will normalise - and with three times a week on free route to Kavala, because the first part is subsidised - it will be done normally. Lemnos, of course, has other connections, but it makes no sense now to describe them in detail, because the time will run out. Mr Colleague, indeed, Mr von Wogau. It has freed fishing within the framework of both the European directives and the European frameworks. Not that we've had ideal conditions before. That is the development, not the one against this European idea. The European idea means regaining and regaining the traditions of the social state, democracy, justice for those who created Europe and the European idea. What you are describing is the evolution of neoliberal capitalism and even in crisis and insufferable competition. It is both in Greece and in Europe. It's also in Africa, it's in Asia, it's everywhere. Transport is shipping and social needs. Indeed, we need another framework than what has already exhausted its limits to a large extent. The product of insurmountable competition is the reduction of the shipping fleet, the concentration of shipping activity on less and less hands, the transfer of a large part of the management and planning right to shipping to banks - the development of recent years very critical and important -, the unemployment of seafarers, the unpaid sea labour by companies that are increasingly in crisis through this insurmountable competition and, of course, many islands without proper cover on the route - coastline. Indeed, it is necessary to redesign and redefinite the rules for all of this. At this stage, we're trying to keep the boots, they're saying. It is our duty to resolve the issues as they arise in these possibilities as long as we can expand them. I'll talk in my denture about the rest of the issues, because I've been over time. In any case, unpaid maritime work for the Ministry and the Government is an unacceptable phenomenon and we are fighting it with the weapons we have on a daily and vigorous basis, without drastic results - it is true - so far, particularly with regard to some of the shipping companies. The reduction in tickets, for the first time this year, to the subsidised public service lines has been achieved. By 2.6%, yes, but last year we also had that possibility, but last year's government did not reduce it. Look out! This is again, on the basis of the institutional framework, impossible to impose on free lines unless the existence of a cartel is established and established by the respective authority. We won't stay awkward in cartel phenomena. Be sure. In this direction and measures, there are for discounts to vulnerable groups of the population, and of course everyone must also claim their rights, but we must also check whether the current regulations are being implemented. Because there are such possibilities. I'm stopping here and I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Minister. I would ask all of you to keep time from now on, because I have been informed here by the Secretariat's colleagues that, as we go, we will end up at 00.30'-01.00 hours today. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u192	Minister, the European ideal, as you described it, stops where its ideal begins. All - human values and all that - stop there. And the European Union is a union of capitalist countries. And what dominates is defending profit and nothing else. The only criterion applied by shipowners to launch ships on any line is whether they will be highly profitable. If they're not highly profitable, they don't make such routes. Therefore, this is the European Union, it is an association of capitalist countries and the criterion for all human activity is profit. Now, I am going to go further on this issue with these five ships of NEL, the 'MYTILINE', which has been tied to Karlovasi since 20 May, the 'THOFILOS', the 'EUROPEAN EXPRESS' and the 'AQUA JEWEL', which have been on the flank of Drapetsona since 2 June, and the 'TAXICHH', which has now been added to Lavrio since 4 June, where there are unpaid seafarers, who are not only unpaid, but are not guaranteed their belongings, with serious risks for the safety of human life, the ship and the port installation. And I ask why the law on abandonment does not apply so that the NAT can immediately seize and auction these ships to take the money it will pay to the unpaid seafarers. Now, with regard to the controls on the airworthiness of ships and the issue of the relevant certificates, this must be done by state responsibility and the participation of seafarers - maritime unions - which will strengthen the protection of human life at sea. Article 82 of the EC Treaty is to be repealed. 4316/2014, which allows the ultra-conservatives over thirty-five years of age to operate ferry trips, even though they are blatantly violating these inadequate rules of airworthiness, putting the lives of passengers and seafarers at increased risk. This anti-industrial, anti-grassroots policy of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is on the same line as the policy of previous governments, New Democracy and PASOK, and leaves the islands without ships, seafarers without work, creating great problems both in the movement of passengers and in the supply of our islands with products. The abolition of cabotage and the alleged competition did not lead to cheaper tickets. On the contrary, he did: more accurate tickets and worse transportation. Therefore, this competition fairy tale, which will lead to lower prices and better services, is not the case. Thus, life confirms that as long as the power of the bourgeoisie is maintained and as long as the ships are in the hands of shipowners, as long as the growth of the economy and shipping is a criterion of profit, the islands will remain without ships and seafarers without wages. And this European ideal, in which the government gives daily vows of faith, as did previous governments, and give all the parties of the Euromonstrate and the capitalist way of development, does not lead to the needs of the inhabitants of these islands being met. As the Minister for Information, Mr Sakellaridis, has said today, the government is seeking an agreement covering both sides, which means that this agreement will be even worse than the anti-popular proposals of the government. Therefore, any compromise can only be between the so-called reasonable and realistic proposal of the Government and the so-called absurd and unrealistic proposal of the institutions, namely the troika. In practice, it will be between two anti-grassroots proposals. What you are trying to do - and to a large extent you have done - is to make the people accomplice to the anti-grass agreement you sign, which will further reduce its incomes and rights with no prospect of recovering the losses of the five-year period and much more, without any prospect of obtaining incomes capable of meeting its current needs. It is something that cannot be done within the framework of the European Union and the capitalist way of development and requires the abolition of the memoranda, loan contracts and the four hundred implementing laws, indiscipline once again on the application of all the anti-grassroots measures that reduce wages and pensions, impose unbearable taxes and abolish fundamental labour and insurance rights. It requires a real and false break with the European Union, which is summarised at the exit from the European Union, unilateral deletion of debt and socialisation of the main and concentrated means of production, as well as of ships.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, my colleague. The Memorandum Laws until a new government took over were five hundred two, you know. Because I heard your Secretary the other day. They were five hundred two. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u194	All right, we'll fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u195	Mr Colleague, your point of view is respected, but I'm afraid you're exaggerating. Social state and socialism are not a package that you take and you put it in the position of another. Life is complicated and very alive. Now if this has made you in five months to conclude that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is an anti-popular, anti-liberal government, you are entitled to appreciate them, but you are not helping either the islanders, the coastline, or the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u196	I think the act shows it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u197	These are tough battles, changing correlations, shaping conditions. If SYRIZA and his government fail to achieve these goals, that means that it will have been defeated, Mr. President. That's a huge difference. You take your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u198	I don't see you negotiating.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u199	I'm on my way, please. It's important that we talk about shipping that is controlled by individuals. Most importantly, when we talk about public planning - and we will do so very soon - we need to talk about stable, sustainable lines. Indeed, this is a redesign, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u200	And you think this can be done in the context of the capitalist system?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u201	Two minutes. When you propose 'uninterrupted', of course, it is uninterrupted, we will agree. The 'Daily' for each island, how does it turn out, Mr. President? See you don't have a plan? You need to take care of these. I now say that there is no law that we will activate for abandonment. This is triggered by the abandoned seamen themselves and they are already doing so, and the Ministry is coming and advocating, when a competent committee that participates in WNO and service actors receives the statements of the seamen, opinions that this is the way the Minister is coming and indeed confirms by his decision and the process is under way to get paid for three months via NAT. Be careful, this procedure is incomplete, because NAT exhausts the stock of the capital in question. And if this goes on, it won't be able to respond. So the public needs to strengthen NAT in this direction. And then will the inconsistent shipowners be rid of? They shouldn't get rid of them. We must have commitment measures. That's not all there is. It's more complicated, Mr. Comrade. Help us get away from conveniences, because they are serious issues. Don't answer me, I'll give you the answer. We have prepared the legislation, we have announced it. Some of you, also friendly, rejected it without question in order to guarantee the possibility of continuing licences if workers have not been paid. It is a process that in the next period we will be given the opportunity to discuss. It was rejected as unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u202	Is that so untied?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u203	With some arguments, obviously. But you realize how far we are from a zero approach.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u204	That we're far away, that's for sure. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u205	I would like to say to you, Mr President, that there are ferry connections that are adequately served, and there are issues with prices, with one or the other. The question of planning to cover the traffic connections based on the needs, but also on sustainable connections and experiments of public-private or municipal-private companies have unfortunately collapsed, through this undermine of competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u206	That is exactly what we say, that there can be no need for this system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u207	So, Mr President, we must strengthen the possibility for the state to have weapons and the societies to have weapons which do not have them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u208	When they do not possess the means of production, they obviously do not have them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u209	It would be much better than this storming and zero criticism to help in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u210	Live the dialogue again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u212	Thank you too, Minister and Mr Tassos. The eighth question will now be discussed under number 241/19-5-2015 of the second question by Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the issues of the ferry connection of Samos, Ikaria and Fournas with Piraeus and other destinations. The Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism will answer Mr. Theodoros Dritsas. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much. Minister, at this time the seafarers of the vessel "MYTILINE", which is anchored in the Samos Carlovashi, are in the dark cabins and are sleeping, since they can no longer accommodate hotels. They are also fed by Samos Elderly, since, as you know, they are working with their colleagues in other parts of Greece, because NEL has collapsed. In Easter, the island of Furnos between Samos and Ikaria stayed without visitors, because the company "HELLENIC SEAWAYS" was unable to put an exceptional route to cover the need for the holiday season. Samos Chamber has notified a letter addressed to you, informing that frequently on board "MYKONOS" trucks are not loaded with supplies for the island of Samos, since intermediate stations, which are served on many routes a day, do not allow trucks to be loaded. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Many diffuse incidents, which I will develop in my dentext a little bit further, show us that while there is a political will on the part of the Ministry, there is a weakness, due to a lack of institutional framework, for the Ministry to intervene remedially, whether in the arbitrary nature of the ferry companies or in the multiple working problems that emerge within companies. My question, then, is: When will the Public Organisation for Maritime Transport be set up? When will a new regulatory framework be organised, so that what you have described in the previous answers to colleagues, but also what I am referring to in my timely question, can be resolved, that is, the regulatory framework, be such as to allow the Ministry to intervene corrective and improve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Sevastaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u215	Mr Colleague, thank you too for the timely question. The issues you have raised do not all convene in a common response. Some malfunctions in connection with the Furnish connection were indeed during the Easter period of very bad weather. Don't forget that this upsets the whole Aegean. There were problems that shouldn't be there. I agree with that. Nevertheless, all connections have been upset because the Great Thursday and the Great Friday have had a ban, which - how do we do it? - it's beyond all possibilities. With great interest in your question, I assure you that your question gave the stimulus to whether the trucks are loaded or not. I'm waiting for the answers. Once I have them, I'll give them to you. Maybe it happened one day, it didn't happen the other. I want an integrated and sure answer from where this answer should come from and you will have it. From that point on, indeed, the "MYTILINE", which is abandoned in Samos because it is damaged, had declared - as they had a right - to work. They are now in the face of even more difficult conditions, because in recent years a movement of solidarity has been developed - it has encouraged the Ministry, to be sure - and to a large extent the previous days have been somewhat more burdensome about the difficulties these people face. Today this possibility was not available and it actually becomes more difficult. Nevertheless, most of the people now have made a declaration of abandonment, and very quickly those procedures that I have described before will be initiated, which do not generally solve the problem, but at least release these people from their hostages, will enable them to seek another job, receive some of their entrants and, of course, the claim will also remain open on the side of the state towards their full justice. This is not only about the seamen of the vessel "MYTILINE". There are other ships of the same company, located in Piraeus, at Drapetsonas Mole and elsewhere. Public Organisation for Maritime Transport. It is indeed our pre-election and programme commitment and we have already talked about it. The work is done. We had published our original intention to open this dialogue after Easter. We have assessed it best to open this dialogue when the summer ends, with all the data. Dialogue is still ongoing and day-to-day in local communities as well. There is no body involved in shipping, which does not raise the question of the need to reform the institutional framework. Of course, it doesn't mean that everyone means the same thing. It is, however, a mature issue and will become a systematic one from the next period, with a systematic dialogue that will provoke on the basis of concrete proposals by the Ministry in this direction. I would like to believe that this will give a great deal of potential. We have a proposal. You know, however, that, in order to operate the maritime linking system, which meets the needs of the societies, it is absolutely essential that those in this dialogue also participate in and co-ordinate this project, whether it relates to their own region or to the wider one. In this direction we are moving very soon, in the next period, we will have the launch of this systematic dialogue. In your timely question you also refer to the connection of subsidised lines with commercial lines. It's already happening in some cases. It is really necessary to move in that direction. It is also part of the planning that I have told you. In fact, in the context of an overall planning, the subsidised lines must be combined at the level of arrivals and departures with free lines and, in some cases, also be a follow-up to the so-called 'free' lines. These are in our plans. We have made partial interventions at this level, but they are indicative. Only in overall design can they be seen as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u217	Let me start backwards, giving some information from a letter from the Samos Chamber, which is addressed to you, and which I shall submit. According to this information, with the new route programme approved by the SAA, it appears that the Piraeus-Samos route with the vessel "MYKONOS" on Monday leaves on 7.55' and the vessel "RODOS" on 10 minutes later. These ships will leave cargo and lorries, as the goods are delivered to transport later in the morning of the same day. It's irrational as a choice. I'm filing the letter for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I said that refrigerator trucks and dry cargo are not frequently loaded, because intermediate stations with too many routes - daily, not weekly - occupy part of the ship. Every week I try to change the route for the Furnus and go to Friday to cover for weekends, because the power companies are asking for it, and I can't. In other words, I have seen too many weaknesses in intervention and improvement and rationalisation, either on existing or planned routes. I would be much stronger to identify this weakness in the working conditions that apply within companies now, as I described it earlier on by the ship "MYTILINE" and its inactivation. All of this, like other examples that one can catch, shows us a fundamental weakness. How, then, can the state finance companies with serious subsidies per mile and, on the other hand, not in return for a corrigendum, not on the basis of abstract wishes, but on the basis of the wishes of the local market and of local communities?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr Sevastakis. Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u219	Yes, Mr. President. Mr Colleagues, for this specific you are now asking for, we can indeed find a number of solutions or arrangements. Subsidized contracts are specific. It's not a contract that changes all that much. It has been announced for this route - whether we are talking about the area you are talking about or about someone else - and that is what needs to be carried out. In other words, there is either the route in the contract or it does not exist. As far as needs are concerned, when the needs that are not covered by the Ministry are evident, sometimes the shipowners make changes to serve some lines.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u220	Or they don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u221	Every change has an impact somewhere else. Especially the line you mention is a subsidised route, which, to reach Lemnos, rightly referred to the previous timely question - takes twenty hours. So it's a little hard to make other changes and cause even greater delays. In any case, let us not have a case-by-case debate. Indeed, I think you should accept that efforts have been made for both the Furnians and all winters, with special and more general interventions. Especially since the summer season was opened, the Fournes have better connections than ever before...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u222	I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u223	...in combination with the connection they now have with the twelfth line. This does not mean that, as far as the Forks are concerned, it is all good and good. I want to say, however, that all this creates a crossword. They're not alone. And they just want from the design base, so that there are also basic logs and individual links, not on the basis of the choice of each business plan alone, but on the basis of public planning, in line with the needs and proposals of local societies. We are moving in this direction. Any difficulty or partial derogation we face. And you know that every day we deal with the ministry with everything that comes to us, everything that comes from the mayors, the professional associations, the MPs and anywhere. In fact, however, a comprehensive design cannot be done immediately. It's gonna be through his preparation, like I said before. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I will tell you - and I shall end with this, Mr President - that, when the current government received the Ministry of Shipping - and the other ministries, but I will focus on our Ministry - already planning the services, lines and contracts for 2015-2016 had been the first and half phases of the legislation, with the first stage in the declaration of free lines, the next stage of the exclusive lines and the third and final phase of the subsidised lines. Already at the beginning of February, the first stage for 2015-2016 was over. So you realise that the interventions cannot be automatic. It's impossible. He wants a process. In this direction in the meantime, we must address each individual issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Minister and Mr Sevastakis. Another topical question to you, Mr Minister, remains to be discussed. It is the thirteenth third with number 204/11-5-2015 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on tackling the unemployment of Greek seafarers. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the Greek seafarers are one of the social classes affected by the memorandum. According to the information provided by the General Assembly, unemployment has again reached a very high level. In March 2013 the unemployed masters and engineers had exceeded 27% and 21% respectively. I'm not gonna talk about watering pods and crews, because there are no crews, so when I talk about watering pods, I'm talking about officers. This unemployment has only increased in six months and particularly in seagoing shipping affects masters of Class III and class III engineers. In 2009 we had a thousand and twenty - one ships, in 2010 ninety - ninety - nineteen and in 2011 ninety - seventeen. In other words, we had a fall of 18.2%. At the same time, 76% of Greek vessels are under another flag. And the Memorandum of Understanding 4150/2013 comes to increase unemployment, mainly on the coastline, so that the unemployed seafarers are now more than ten thousand, according to official and informal elements of WNO. What measures will the government take to deal with the unemployment of Greek seafarers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u227	Before anything else, in this case, it is worth highlighting a very important issue that also characterises the reality of maritime occupation, maritime work and unemployment in the maritime labour sector. There's no doubt about it. In a country of shipping, in a country that triumphs shipping, which is the most dynamic sector in the world, organisations, associations, chambers, the General Assembly, the Ministry, undeniably and fully monitored data on maritime work are not available. And that's why it's not random, and I won't invoke it, because I don't trust them. I don't trust them absolutely. I do not question your own data, but at the same time I would like to point out that in the first four months of 2015, we have not a huge reduction in the seafarers offered for seafarers, i.e. the unemployment index compared to all previous years. What can I say? That during SYRIZA - ANEL governance we were able to reduce maritime unemployment? I cannot say that, although we measure numbers, this seems to be about 15% reduction in unemployment. It's gonna be funny to claim it, and of course I won't. But I point out this reality. In any case, it is not just that we have seafarers' unemployment - and you are right - to captains and engineers, especially to third parties. The second ones are kind of covered, and you know it, because you're at sea. The third is the fact that we also have unemployment there. In particular, however, we have unemployment in the lowest crews. The first move we made was political, that is to say, an expression of a political direction at the time of receipt - the tradition of the Ministry and at every opportunity. We have called on the workplace and the place of work and we are immediately and quickly encouraging the development of a dialogue in order to achieve the signing of a collective agreement - it is not a matter of the Ministry, it is a matter of work and Employment, but we encourage it politically - not only in terms of the level of income, wages, wages, etc., but also in terms of the binding obligation of the employer to absorb a significant part of the unemployed seafarers and to strengthen the jobs of Greek seafarers and engineers, captains III or, above all, of crews, which is the greatest unemployment there. We encourage it in the direction of the collective agreement and not of individual agreements. If this does not happen for any reason, there are indeed thoughts and solutions referring to the organic compositions of ships. But that is where we need a serious debate. And that is where steps are needed at the right time, properly prepared and through this specific, organised and planned intervention, so that one can have correct results. In any case, it is incomprehensible for Greece, the country of shipping, the country of shipping, to evolve into an economy and in a country and in a society in which seafarers are now a very small social group. It is incomprehensible because - I have said this again - it is not only social, economic, productively unacceptable, but it is also culturally and historically unacceptable. It's like our country's changing historical identity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u228	Also, Minister, the tolerance of lenders is incomprehensible. While they imposed draconian laws on the recording of staff other than shipping, they are somewhat tolerant of recording with reliable data and mechanisms in the shipping sector. Mr. Kouzeli, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much. I will not answer you as a Greek congressman. I'll answer as a Greek captain. The whole problem is created because the Greek seafarer has quite different idiosyncrasies. He's never going to go write to the YEI. It's very difficult. Usually, when he gets out, he's looking straight for a job. So it doesn't go down to the YEN. That is why the entries in the YEE are too few. From there, however, what you said about the proper design of the organic composition of crews is interlinked with the increase in the register itself. If we increase the register and change the organic composition of crews, which I believe needs to be done immediately, we are talking about sixty thousand jobs, according to some very rough data that I have at the moment. I therefore believe that the priority of the ministry should be to change the organic composition of crews and to increase the register. We cannot have four thousand Greek-owned ships with very rough data and have less than a thousand on the Greek flag. That's where the whole problem arises. At the moment we are talking about too many Greek seafarers. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 4150/2013 for the coastline, a solution is required. You were in the opposition at the time when you condemned these articles on shipping, if I remember. Again with a very rough calculation, I will tell you that we are talking about about six hundred fifty jobs directly on the coastline if a specific article is changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Kouzeli. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u231	First of all, I would like to make a comparison in the Minutes. I am sure that what we have said previously covers this gap, but I put it before you to have a sample so that it can approach these issues. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know well that the increase in the register is not required. Usually, it is intended - this is tradition, constitutional and institutional framework, but also practice - with benefits and incentives. I think that there the Greek state has organized benefits and incentives. There is one issue here. They must respond to these incentives. There are a lot of points of view. I know them, I'm talking about them. I don't incriminate a Priori, but in any case, don't chase any flags of convenience. The Greek flag, precisely because it is a strong flag, is a huge incentive. The Greek shipowners must take advantage of this incentive which has very much many benefits and constitutionally guaranteed and respond to it. You'll tell me that's a wish. In any case, however, the debate on even more incentives and even more benefits in the name of register growth cannot be opened. No way. On the other hand, the debate on the recovery of the balance between what the Greek state traditionally gives the businessmen of the sea and the response they must give not to the state but to the Greek society is open. Organic compositions are already based on legislation that has been introduced a long time ago. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4150/2013, of course, put some new regulations on some specific categories. At this time, I can assure you that any new request comes for renewal of the reduced organic compositions, the Ministry has given only one month, with the applicant's obligation to prove both the safety issues and the issues of adequacy and much more. And we're expecting evolution. In any case, this debate on organic compositions is open.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Minister and Mr Kuzelle. The next seven topical questions, ladies and gentlemen, are addressed to the Minister, Mr George Stathakis. Please all to keep time. We will be proposing with the understanding of colleagues, not because of the Vice-President's solidarity, Mr Kaklamani's timely question, because he chaired three hours before me. With your tolerance and your understanding, I would very much ask you to put forward the question of the dear President and friend Mr Kaklamanis. The fourth question under number 1328/100/31-3-2015 will therefore be discussed and an application for the filing of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the privatisation of the Port Authority of Piraeus (PA). The Minister will answer Mr. George Stathakis. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u233	Although, Minister, two months have passed since I tabled the written question, there may be a good time, since from what we read and learn it is in the main prerequisites, but also in what you have accepted as a government and I think it is also within forty-seven pages, the general issue of privatisation, including the ports and in particular Piraeus. I recall on 9 February, Mr. Dritsas and his friend in the programme statements said: "We announced our commitment to stop privatising the PPA and the Port Authority of Thessaloniki and guaranteeing the public character of the ports of the country." In his speech, the Prime Minister moved about the same wavelength as Mr. Dritsa, with little discrepancy, but the same, up below, he said. We went on to the voyage by the Vice-President of the Government to China and his statement on 28 March: "The Greek Government will sell the majority package available to the PPA within the next few weeks". Then comes your answer - from the Minutes - I have taken it - within the House: "We insist - and that is the intention - that the entire port should be managed under the public eye, so that the public interest can be fully guaranteed." [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] In order to avoid a lot of talk, and I am referring to press releases, I would like you today to reply to me with the boldness that you see and the political courage - I would say - in the following three questions: Will the privatisation of the PPA finally be completed and by what procedure? Secondly, you committed yourself as a government - why did I not remember if you had gone to China too - to sell the majority package to 'COSCO'? Thirdly, what are the conclusions of the meeting of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs with the Deputy Director-General of International Relations, Mr Shan Li, of China Development Bank, which, on the basis of its government, pays what it is to buy off the world? I would like, first of all, to make a clear answer to these three questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u234	Come on, Minister, answer with courage and courage to privatise the PPA, as Mr Kaklamanis asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u235	Mr Kaklamani, as you know, this issue has been discussed in the Chamber. The port of Piraeus is obviously the strategic port of the country. Our central position, which remains, is to have a uniform system for managing all ports in the country, a regulatory framework that responds to European data and at the same time ensures the rules and how ports operate. Today the privatisation of the PPA is at the heart of a two-track negotiation. On the one hand, it is about negotiating with the European institutions. He is involved right there because it has been entered as a financial revenue in the current period, as is regional airports. One level of negotiation is therefore the financial side of this year, and there are both basic privatisations - concessions in which the government is negotiating an agreement with the partners. On the other hand, in our immediate intentions - and this is something that has been made clear - there is the renegotiation of the concession agreement itself, so that it is more beneficial for our country and better responds to the public interest. This in this case suggests that the second phase - as you know, the notice proceeded in part, and it is not about 67%, but 51% - will be under five years of conditions and the creation of strong investments. Only then will the second stage proceed. On the other hand, there are three interested parties at this stage. In all directions, therefore, the Government is working towards changing important conditions which better guarantee the public interest within the tendering procedure, without the annulment of the tenders. This is whether it is an exception to part of the port - for example, if it is by boat or something else - or a change in terms of many issues relating to complex aspects of the port, such as the maritime repair zone and other aspects of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, Minister, although the questions were other, I leave them. And you know why? Because tonight I finally heard a clear answer that you have decided to give 51% over the next five years and the remaining 16%. So 67% now the Greek state has it. I urge to tell you - and I know that I am a minority within my party - that I am in favour of the privatizations in these things and not the privatizations. This means that I accept as a citizen and as a politician 49% and that management is given the private and 51% to the state. I repeat that I know that I may also be a unit in the New Democracy that says these things. I'm closing my parentheses, and I'm saying my point of view. So I'm not gonna lie to you about that. I may have told you, but I know that my party coincides with what you have said. 51% immediately and the remaining 16% over the next five years. Of course, the official statement by the HICP, which I have before me, does not say that you are negotiating a substantial change in essential terms. On the contrary, it states: ‘The GOI states that it does not negotiate with anyone the change of terms of the tender. The HIAD fully respects the terms of transparency and equal treatment of investors.... because the Danes have come and complained to you, "... and informs you that there are little amendments to the terms." So tonight, I want to ask you two further questions: This 16%, how will any company take the port? Helium is more likely to be the 'COSCO'. The Vice-President of the Government would not be exposed to going to China with a multi-faceted delegation. So that will be through an increase in the share capital that the Greek state will not be able to monitor and thus get the remaining 16%? If you are actually discussing an amendment, then you will have to make them have to pay the share of the Greek state, the Greek state, to at least 51%. Again they can manage with 51% and not with 67%. And secondly, because these Brussels bureaucrats are constantly invoking us before you and now - 'do not move on to privatization, do you not go ahead with privatization' - what is the role of the Commission, Minister, in the history of privatization in general? Because it is more obvious that the pipeline sabotaged him - and on the government of Karamanlis and on the government of Samaras and now - the Commission, on the subject of having to be inside the consortium and a European company. Have they told you the same thing about PPA? The Danes who came, came by themselves, or came sent? Because, on the one hand, we are being prosecuted as a country - and I am now taking the part of the government - that we do not quickly go ahead with privatisation, as they mean them, and on the other hand I have the suspicion - you will tell me whether it is right or not - that they are putting the same stumbling blocks on the name - supposedly - of European economic interests. So I would like you to answer these two so clearly, as you said to me in the first place, that we have already closed it 51% and gone for 67%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u238	You didn't suffice at the core of the question. You are satisfied with the answer, and now you are taking it to others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u239	I personally, Mr. Metropoulou, no. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u240	What will Mr. Lapavitsas and Mr. Sevastakis now say, not to mention me? Now, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u241	I think it is very clear that the distinction I have made in my first speech between what the TIAD is doing - the TIAD is making progress on what it has in its hands - and what the government, the government that does not have this policy for the PPA. That's clear. The only reason why this development exists is - I repeat - the fact that these were from the previous governments, they were pre-determined, they were entered in the current budget and, under the current conditions, only trying to improve the terms and conditions of this procedure. The contacts are made with all sides. Indeed, I met with the Danish company, which is interested, and I have generally met with all the candidate companies, and we are trying to see under what conditions and what conditions the competition can get - with the consent of those involved in it - a turn which is more friendly to what we as government are seeking. At first we would agree on a very different model. Now, for the role of the Commission. The Commission obviously had different thoughts in the past. The main point, which was raised by the Commission, relates to the role and specificity of dominant position in the European ports' markets. This creates some problems, I would say, for both companies: the Danish company, which has a large number of private ports in Europe and possibly also in the 'COSCO', since it has a stronger position, which can be characterised as a monopoly. But this is a debate in which, at least so far, the Commission had made reservations, which it has withdrawn, as far as I know at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u242	We've heard revealing things, Minister. The first under number 297/2-2015 topical question for the second cycle of MP Imathia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Lapavicas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the prevention of the conclusion and approval of the TTIP. In the timely question, the Minister will answer Mr. George Stathakis. Here, Mr. Lapavica, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u243	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that it is a special pleasure for me to address the question to the Minister from these chairs. Our previous exchanges were from different types of seat. I hope that this exchange will have some of the accuracy and less of the acidity of the previous ones. My question has to do, as has already been said, with the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, the famous or rather notorious TTIP. I shall start by saying that TTIP is a very problematic agreement. I come from glaukas to Athens, I am sure, to the Minister, saying that. I say, however, that TTIP, in itself, is, in fact, a political project which is lacking in economic content. The agreement is directly linked to the negotiations within the framework of the World Trade Organisation. Its aim is to put pressure on the two parties - the United States of America and the European Union - to the other major partners in world trade, the BRICS countries, so that the Doha Round can go ahead. The agreement does not have an economic substance, as the European Union and the United States of America already have the largest bilateral trade relationship in the world. In particular, the duties between the United States and the European Union are extremely low, so that both partners are key export destinations for each other. Moreover, there are no significant obstacles to direct foreign investment, which is apparent from the influx of one partner to another, which is the highest. The economic interdependence of the two regions is such that it leaves no room for further development of trade and investment through an agreement. So the economic effects of the agreement on the European Union are from pitiful to questionable. The European Commission overestimates the financial results, it is certain. The expected results of TTIP for Greece are also conceivable. The JRC also concludes that the JRC is a relevant study. These demonstrate that the country is not expected to have economic benefits under the agreement. Of course, there are no major benefits for the European Union either. At the same time TTIP poses serious risks to the country associated with changing the regulatory framework, as you know. At its core it has neoliberal logic and promotes all sacrifice deregulation. The main objective is to harmonise the European Union's regulatory frameworks with those of the United States of America to strengthen investor protection. For example, energy, raw materials related to trade, state-owned enterprises, public procurement and copyright. There are also serious changes in the status of labour, social, consumer and environmental protection, as they promote the interests of investors and their protection in every way. I conclude by saying that in this context the European Commission's insistence on including the state-economy resolution mechanism, the infamous ISDS, in the agreement, as shown by a document, a concept paper presented at the last Foreign Trade Council on 7 May 2015, is the basis for my timely question. In particular, the inclusion of the State-investment dispute resolution mechanism in the TTIP introduces the American culture of the legal claims of companies towards States. This mechanism threatens to undermine the implementation of public policies on the basis of popular will. So since TTIP does not offer either to the country or to Europe positive benefits and since it involves these risks, I would like you to tell me what action you intend to take to prevent this unjust and dangerous trade and investment agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Lapavica. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u245	With regard to TTIP, I do indeed think it is an agreement that does not concern trade. Trade is already liberalized in the relationship between the European Union and the United States of America. It is an economic agreement, which concerns very important things, very critical sectors of the economy, which are currently regulated in each economic area in a different way either at European level - and we are talking about the European Union - or at national level. This regulatory framework is trying to change TTIP. It is an agreement on which nine rounds of negotiations have already been held. It has certain characteristics and is subject to strong criticism. I could codify criticism in three basic sections. The first section concerns the fact that this agreement is being made and is progressing under a strict transparent regime. No one knows exactly what is being discussed and what level. The excessive secrecy surrounding the successive rounds therefore raises issues of transparency and whether citizens can know about this important agreement. The second level of criticism relates to the introduction of this mechanism, ISDS, namely the way in which the differences between the investor and the State are resolved. This is a very important issue that changes the whole legal system that governs and calls into question the simplest, namely the possibility of a State or the European Union to regulate and change the rules with which it regulates either the environment or its energy policy, its policy on copyright or its employment or many other areas in which a private investor may claim that the change in these terms entails damage to the initial investment and seek compensation. This ISDS, therefore, dispute between the private investor who considers that it has changed the terms of operation of his investment and calls for compensation for it, introduces an unprecedented legal system which brings a private investor into conflict with the State on the grounds of the State's right to legislate and change the systems that regulate various sectors. The third major conflict concerns, of course, national priorities which each country has, which is why TTIP meets very strong objections from a variety of countries, from most European countries, to individual parts of the agreement. In this light, one could argue that Greece is not unfair in the name of shipping. Germany has strong objections to public procurement in the United States. France, like Greece, has PDOs, which in the US system do not exist at all, nor will they ever join. The Americans are absolutely absolute in this regard. So we have three major points of criticism. I must say that they were also formulated by our side at the meeting on 7 May, so we directly opposed all of these three levels. We have fully maintained our reservations about any continuation of this process, under the conditions that are currently being done. I must point out, of course, that this process will be difficult to complete in the next few years. It is almost impossible for it to be completed in the current presidency of the United States. In any case, however, the Greek Government must remain vigilant in order not to allow the regulatory European rules to be relaxed in any case within a possible type of agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Lapavitsa, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u247	I thank the Minister very much for his first answer. I'm going to continue my question in the search for a little bit more accuracy. We therefore agree that TTIP does not have substantial economic benefits and pose serious risks. It is no coincidence that the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs in its relevant opinion expressed its unequivocal opposition to the ISDS mechanism, recalling that the judicial systems, both in the European Union and in the United States of America, operate effectively. I say that the given level of investment protection in the European Union and in the United States is fully sufficient to ensure legal certainty. The problematic nature of this mechanism has been pointed out by the European Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, saying that a mechanism for resolving disputes between an investor and a State based on private arbitration may undermine the right of the European Union and the national, regional and local authorities of the Member States to regulate in the public interest, in particular as regards social and environmental policy, and therefore would not respect the constitutional framework of the European Union. What are the consequences of ISDS? I want to mention it here, because many times these issues are a little abstract and it helps us to be specific. In practice with ISDS companies can circumvent European courts and claim large compensation from governments which, by legislating democratically to protect their health, the environment and socio-economic life, can influence their profits in one way or another. There is a real pipeline industry in this matter. It's not a theoretical shape, but it's a reality. In 2012, the French company ‘VEOLIA’ brought an action against Egypt before an ISDS-related mechanism. The reason was the introduction of the minimum wage in Egypt. In 2000 the company signed a contract to manage Alexandria's waste. The country refused to proceed with a change in the contract and the company applied for the arbitration mechanism, requesting compensation. Another case is Argentina. During the crisis in 2001 the government underestimated the currency, as we know, and frozen the prices for water and energy. The French company ‘SUEZ’, which managed to provide water to Buenos Aires, appealed against the country for the application of maximum prices. In 2010, the arbitration body justified the company, which subsequently claimed compensation of USD 1,2 billion. Finally, in April 2015, the avengered amount was $405 million. In other words, we are talking about large sums. We are talking about serious risks. And that is all but individual cases. According to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development - the UNCTAD - and in the early 1990s the ISDS cases were only a few dozen, by 2013 they approached six hundred. Neighbourhood Turkey has been involved in eight such cases, Poland in eleven and Albania in two. In my view, therefore, the rejection of TTIP and the ISDS mechanism from our country and from a left-wing government is a one-way road. I would like to ask, therefore, if the European Parliament seems to be very concerned about this agreement - proof that thirteen committees have drawn up opinions on TTIP - and that TTIP must also have its own approval, I would like to ask you, Minister, if you intend to ask Members to inform us of our country's positions in order to prevent this agreement from being approved by this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u248	Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u249	Two very brief information. One is, of course, the government's position and the information of the European Parliament. The second is the designation of this agreement as binding in order to require ratification by national parliaments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Minister and Mr. Lapavitsa. The second question, with number 307/2-2015, of the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, will be developed to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Education and Religious Affairs, on the reintroduction of the single price in the book. The Minister of Economy will answer Mr. George Stathakis. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, Minister, I have raised this issue because I have indeed been amazed to see the placement of the fellow minister with you, the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr Xydakis, for the return of the single price of the book. In other words, he is thinking of the Deputy Minister of Culture again legally prohibiting discounts on books. We want Greece, we want SYRIZA - ANEL, or at least Mr Xydakis! He can't afford cheap books! I am explaining what this is about: in 1996, the PASOK government, then - from which you are obviously affected - established a status in some countries of Europe as well. But where it applies, it applies to certain restrictions. But here it was without any restriction. In other words, it was decided with the single price of the book that the publisher should determine where he wants the price of the book and then not be allowed to make a discount more than 10%. It was supposed to be for a two-year period for every publication or reproduction of the book. But publishers issued a limited number of publications and therefore, there was essentially the single price, namely the ban on deductions in books in general, horizontally and vertically. This led us to have in Greece with data I had presented when I was in your place, more accurate books - I'm talking about the same category of books or the same title of books -25%, 30%, 40% compared to the other countries where the single price of the book did not apply. And the single price of the book does not apply to countries such as America, Canada, Great Britain, Australia, Finland, Sweden. The three-story study, the OECD toolbox, which found - by analogy with the Competition Committee as early as 2009 - that we had this special regime here and proposed to abolish prices. Because there was a reaction from the publishers for good reasons and within the arguments put forward it was to protect the new scholars, we exempted literary books for the first edition and said 'yes, the new scholars will be protected'. But we have no reason for the school book to get it from the parents extremely expensive and so on. Since the regulation, according to my own data, has been implemented, we have been in titles of efficacious historical books, tests, studies, etc. 25% discounts -30% in school aids 30% in literary books issued three, four years ago discounts 40% -50%. I would ask, then, that you, Minister, have any evidence showing that the prices of books from last year when the regulation was implemented have not been reduced this year? Because I don't have that kind of evidence. I have the opposite evidence. Secondly, you really tell me and it's not rhetorical at all. What has you been caught in the government and you want to be precise about the prices of books? We took this initiative last year, which was in favour of the reading public, for consumers, and you now only hear what the publishers say. And I would have been an editor. We are not here to listen to individual overprotected social groups. We're to listen to the world. Unless you "first time left" want to listen to one and the other who comes to your office and do not listen to the broad public opinion. That's the question. These questions really come out of my heart. I don't understand the reasoning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u252	Thank you. Minister, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Hatzidakis, the evidence is the first given in my answer. The evidence I have in front of me is the evidence of ELSTAT. They record a decrease in the price of books for the years 2013 and 2014, to which you refer, in the same months, the tenth, the eleventh and the twelfth. The average price of the book is -2.4%, -2.5% and -2.5%. From January 2015 onwards, no reduction has been recorded by ELSTAT. As you know, only scientific and other books have been released. Literature has remained under the single price scheme. The idea, therefore, that we have a huge impact is not the case. Secondly, the single price system is opposed not only to publishers, but to all the organizations involved in the book: bookshops, the province. There is no body that believes that market liberalisation would create a benefit. Thirdly, the statistical data before the introduction of this legislation, I am referring to the previous period, the previous seven, eight years, when we were able to record developments from the Book Centre, the CSR, which reminded me that your Government abolished, showed a steady decrease in the price of books, which shows that it was probably not the case that the books remained extremely expensive. We cannot compare books that have translation costs with British markets or others. So the picture is that first, the price of books was not reduced before the single book price. Secondly, the data on what impact has been, remains very limited and thirdly, the idea that the single price of the book works as you know with restrictions only relates to the first version not all of the publications - so in a book, which comes out in a second and third edition, does not apply to the single price - and is valid for a period of twenty-four months. The idea is, therefore, to listen and open up the dialogue with all those who are really interested in, work on the book and find the best way to maintain the bookshop and publishing activity with strong motives and, of course, the consumer who must have access - this value we all share - in the cheapest possible book.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u255	Mr Minister, unfortunately for me, this debate is not only followed by publishers, who already cover me with various cosmic surnames, obviously because they were damaged by the reduction in book prices. Otherwise they wouldn't have any reason to attack me. Apart from publishers, however, they are watching the debate and readers, who know that what you said about 2% - I do not know what method ELSTAT has been followed - does not correspond to reality. They know that "The Victory" of Christos Houmenides, which is considered a book - let's say - of the year, this year, he is out on a 30% discount. They know that "The Feast of Silence" of Kouder is with a 30% discount. They know Lena Manta's "Coffes" is at a 30% discount. They know and your colleague Mr. Kotzias also knows that his book "Patriotism and Left" is now sold with a 30% discount, which before it was forbidden to say, because the limit was 10%. Your colleague, Mr. Milios, knows that his book "From the crisis in the left-wing government" is sold with a 30% discount. Aristos Doxiadis knows that the "Invisible breach" he wrote is also sold with a 30% discount. That's the reality. Mr President, I will table a list of three pages of specific publications, politically, literaryly and other books, which this list shows the truth. What I said is actually based. I'll file the list, the journalists will see it, and the readers will see it, and then I'll see how the government will scandalally continue to cover its publishers and clients by ignoring the interest of readers. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the list referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also have another question, Minister. You - and good for you - while Prime Minister Tsipras here in March said that I allegedly intercepted the OECD seal and presented as OECD positions my own personal positions, then came this intercept...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u256	You're telling the toolbox.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u257	Yes, the toolbox. So this government came and adopted my alleged toolbox, adopting the proposals of the toolbox on unprescribed medicines - which in Greece in fact is 27% more expensive than those in which the medicines have not been released - as many of the proposals made by our own government have been adopted. So while you come along and follow the path of reason in this direction, even if you turn right by pulling light to the left, at this time you come to the subject of the single price of the book and do away with a clearly successful arrangement. Even with your own evidence, we have a fall in the price of books, even if you have less of a fall. So what do you want? Are you the government that you call 'vivor the accuracy'? Are you such a blanket? Is that your approach? I really call on you, even at the last minute, to reconsider, because a movement in favour of accuracy is the last thing that needs to be done in this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. I, too, have a feeling, Minister, and as a writer, that the fall in the price of books in recent years is greater. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u259	Mr Hatzidakis, I think I was quite clear that the'single price' only relates to the first version. From the second edition of a book, the price is free. The nature and definition of the'single price' therefore protects or encourages publishing activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u260	Yes, but I told you about the tricks, Minister, that they did...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u261	I repeat. You have called on books that first, are literary and have a'single price', so their price falls only because it is very commercial and they have second, third, fourth edition. Secondly, the scientific books, which you have also referred to, obviously fall under such a procedure. But it must be clear. We are making an open, public debate right now, and there is no other kind of commitment beyond the debate that has to be done in a much more structured way about the results that you have said and what I have suggested, so that we can make better and better decisions. Now, on toolbox 1 and 2, we can open another chapter of the debate, but I think this is not the right time to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Minister. The seventh question will be discussed under No 245/19-05-2015. Second question by the MP of Heraklion from the Communist Party of Greece. Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the airport of Chania. The Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism will respond, Mr. George Stathakis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 8 April, we tabled a question on Chania airport and related to airport sub-financing, staff shortages, extension of the airport, as well as the imminent privatisation. Unfortunately, the answer was also inadequate but also revealing the Government's intentions. In particular, with regard to airport credit due from the state budget, you told us that this financial year has been credited to Chania with EUR 500,000. It's half the truth. Usually, half the truth is a whole lie. I say this because of the EUR 500,000 in 2015 alone, which cannot be exploited because of the incredible bureaucracy. EUR 150,000 concerns last year's debt to suppliers. The 220,000 euros are about the airport's cleansing this year, but the workshops must first be paid for last year's cleansing and the people's proverb says, "What does the sasami do to him?" So, if you don't know, the services at Chania airport proceeded to a rough tender to cover this year's supply needs and no supplier came. So, barren, the competition. Why? But what do they come to do when last year's debts are pending? Through the airport of Chania, 2.5 million passengers were moved in 2014 and so many are expected for 2015. In this respect, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. So instead, what did we have? We had 240,000 euros for 2014. In other words, this is an illegal retention of compensation fees and not just retention. It is theft that leads to the dismantling of the country's airports, not just Chania, all over the country, because all airports face these problems. So I tell you that today is literally the end of the health paper. Mr President, what are we talking about in the Greek Parliament? For an airport's health paper, i.e. self-evident. There is an inability to maintain and support sanitary facilities. Fuel is done, and so is the pharmaceutical material is finished. There is an image of abandonment in the environment, inability to maintain the existing building, inability to repair faults posed by airport security. We're talking about luggage tapes, automatic doors, toilet damage, electrical damage, not to list them. And all this is happening in the middle of a tourist season. The second issue, to close my prototype, concerns the lack of staff and the need to recruit permanent staff. There are huge deficiencies in critical specialities, as in the technical section. There is no engineer of any specialty, and for repairs there is a need for competitions that increase both the repair time and the necessary costs. So what was the Minister's answer? A tour of the Memorandum Measures and Implementing Laws so far to reach what? Because other things you were electorally saying, and that is why the world had voted for you, that you would smash the memos with a law. Now you come to hide behind them to justify your refusal to meet the urgent requests of recruitment. So, where are we heading? In privatization of Chania airport, as well as fourteen airports throughout the country. So today - because you are also Haniotis, a MP elected from Chania - you must tell us very specifically about the timetable for the immediate financing of the airport and of all the airports in the country - so that we do not acquit any airports - in the middle of a tourist season - not to tell me about the autumn or winter, now is the tourist season, there is a need - to meet all their operational needs, in our view, to meet all the essential needs of the airport and of the people. In addition, please tell us whether you will go against the Memorandum of Understanding and Obligations, the recruitment of the necessary staff and the vacancies for the smooth operation of the airport with full and stable work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u264	Tell us, Minister, what about the airport of the beautiful city of Chania, your homeland? Tell us. The Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Mr. George Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u265	Incidentally last Saturday I visited Chania Airport and had a thorough discussion with both the administration and the employees. Everyone recognizes that the problems are huge, but the problems, as you all know, have arisen first of all from accumulated debts. Since 2014, tens of millions, which have not been covered and which the government has been faced with have to cover. Secondly, the procedures and the way in which the whole procurement system operates and operates have many problems. That's a fact. In cooperation with the PSC, we are trying to find the best possible ways to solve these problems. Thirdly, the government obviously could not face accumulated debts. All he did was seek emergency resources to meet the emergencies before the start of the tourist season, so immediately in the next few weeks an effort was made and around 2 million euros were found to meet the current needs of the airports. The fourth point concerns the extension of the airport and there were problems, which probably led to the closure of the business by the contracting company. This was announced by letter from the company. There has been an extensive debate on my part with the company, and we have decided to continue the work unnecessarily and the circumstances - we hope very soon - to restore liquidity and address these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u267	Minister, unfortunately you are not responding. And you don't answer, precisely why these commitments are. Wait for this notorious deal. No unilateral action! So we're getting a little out of context, woe and alas! But you spoke about the accumulated debts of the previous ones. No objections! You lead to the overcompensation of debts. So one hand washes both faces! Extraordinary resources EUR 2 million for the country's airports! Really, two million? Tell us how you distribute them and what corresponds to each airport, to see if they can really be met, not the basic needs, nothing will be covered at all, based on the increased needs we have today. In relation to other issues, you did not answer. It is a serious matter, and I will tell you below what you said about the issues of privatisation, as well as what SYRIZA said in Chania. As far as the extension of the airport is concerned, you answered the question in April by once again making an enlightening tour of the history of funding. We know that. This is EUR 110 million from the ESRB for the extension, more than doubled the number of buildings, etc. The contractors have stopped. That's true! You got off in Chania, you had a meeting and you made a commitment that today was going to start work. But they didn't start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u268	They'll start tomorrow, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u269	They didn't start! While the contractor is in phase, while with public money the new wing is being built, your government is moving on to privatization. Minister, the question is that these projects will be treated as private ones. It is a privilege of co-government and of the European Union for their profitability, given the privatization of the airport, which you have already launched at the German-Copelus consortium, possibly also with the involvement of American interests, despite your opposing election declarations. So I would remind you what you said in November, when the tender in favour of 'FRAPORT' was completed: 'Extremely negative development for the prospects for recovery of the Greek economy'. And you added that ‘the sale of this public infrastructure directly affects the public interest’. So I will tell you what SYRIZA, who had come out in the bars, that "the transfer of public property is an ideological neoliberal obsession and not a need". That's what SYRIZA said, and that's how you went in opposition to come to the government. So today you are going through everything and coming, not to overthrow privatisation, rather than speed it up. From the election crumbs and "slash the memorials" you have been through very quickly and easily in these catastrophic ambiguities. So you are selling the property of the Greek people, whose sweat the Greek people gained this public property, in order to pay back the debt for which this people were not the fault of you. You'll get from this 11 billion airport deal to give it directly to the lenders. It's not going to enter the pocket of anyone named Haniotis, no Cretan, no Greek worker or one euro. You may say you're renegotiating. You're not renegotiating anything. On the substance, the invitation to tender remains as it stands, irrespective of whether the concessions have been granted since forty years. In any case, "what you had, Yannis, what I've always had"! But let me say, and close with it, that Mr. Kammenos came to Chania a few days ago, who thought he was sharing mirrors with indigenous people, and what did he say? That it's against the privatisation of Chania airport, not the other thirteen. Chania Airport! On whose behalf did he speak? Was he speaking on behalf of the American interests and the administration of the US base Souda, as the Americans are interested and have every reason to intervene in this process? You will tell me, 'American interests, what German capital'. The same purpose, the same line, is for both men and women. However, Mr Kammenos came and told us his national patriotic sermons, his nationalistic slogans, on the occasion of the fallen in Candan and at the same time spoke of national sovereignty and that the Chania should be proud that the American base will be upgraded, because they will be protected by the jihadists, as the Carpathians must be for the new base, because tourism will develop. The government must also tell us very specifically about the issues of privatisation, it must tell us very specifically about the upgrading of the US base, because this is also related to the privatisation of the airport. The JRC, Minister, has said to all tons that the operation of air transport on the basis of private economic criteria, i.e. on the basis of profit, is inextricably linked at a high cost of using airports. In other words, the users will also pay for it, but we will also have workers' redundancies and those who remain with new employment relationships, which are unbearable for themselves and for their families. The only option, Minister, is what the JRC says: opposition to privatization and its consequences for the people, along with a fight for transport, which will constitute social and people's property. But this is a struggle for labour, people's power and freedom from the European Union, with labour, people's control. That's why the workers of Chania do well and move, well they do as they told you. And this whole world will be needed on June 11 to be at the great syllables and to give an answer to the agreement, whether on the proposals of the government or the troika, the institutions, which are moving in the same direction, at the expense of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Stynedakis. Minister, would you like to fill in?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u271	Firstly, with regard to recruitment, the Government, in spite of the limitations, proceeds to the CSCE competition which had been completed with regard to air traffic controllers, namely the completion of thirty-two very important positions for the operation of airports. That's what I forgot to tell you in the first answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u272	This has been going on for too long.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u273	Yes, but now it's going on and there's going to be a direct development.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u274	That's what the previous government said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u275	I now come back to the issue of privatisation. The government has formulated a clear and honest position. For those who've become, he can't do too many things. For the two in progress, he tries to formulate the best possible framework, under the current circumstances, in favour of the public interest and does not make any commitment to all the future that he has suspended. They're not in the deal and they're not going to go ahead. That's our policy. Under the circumstances, this policy is frankly explained. And I repeat that the visit was of this nature, that there should be a debate just in a honest manner, under the limitations raised under these circumstances. And here the negotiation is double. It concerns the overall negotiation - I repeat that revenues from 1.2 billion in the current budget - and at the same time negotiation with the company are written in order to find ways of guaranteeing the public presence in this investment. One last point. Safeguarding workers' positions is in any circumstances also made clear in the discussions we held in Chania last Saturday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u276	Thank you. The twelfth will now be discussed under number 187/5-2015, topical question by Mr Eleftherios Aygeakis, Member of the Commission, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the deprivation of the fourteen regional airports. The Minister will answer Mr. George Stathakis. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I've been watching you all along extremely carefully. I asked you this question since the previous government has systematically promoted - as you know - the gradual functionalisation of fourteen regional airports, the longer than the last years of long-term hiring, with direct revenues of EUR 1,234 billion and EUR 22,9 million annually guaranteed lease, with a commitment from the consortium to invest EUR 330 million and with a thousand four hundred direct jobs and some fifteen thousand indirect new jobs. However, the SYRIZA Government has not clarified its positions on the matter. I would mention to you, Mr Stathakis, that Mr Varoufakis, who is in this position now sitting about ten days ago or less, in reply to my timely question again, did not answer almost anything - I think you chaired, Mr Metropoulou - almost nothing - is common to this policy - and he did not tell us what the government's final official position is. So I ask you - if you can answer me clearly - what is the government's position - not you personally as a university student told us by Mr Varoufakis at the time - regarding the long-term rental of these fourteen airports? Obviously this concession is part of the negotiation, as we have already seen, and as you said before. But have you wondered, Mr Stathakis, what kind of negotiation is it that you've been doing almost a fifth month now? So I inform you - and please do not question the information I will tell you, because when I say something to you, I always check it out with absolute certainty - that only in May 2015 the arrivals of visitors at the airport "Nikos KAZANTAKIS" fell by 5.6% compared to May 2014. At the same time the completeness of the hotels in all tourist areas and in Crete, by extension, reaches 60% with 80% with much lower prices than last year, with much lower demand than last year and 65% of the rental rooms in Crete remain closed. These, which I have just mentioned, are only a few examples of this terrible and terrible negotiation that you are negotiating, which proves the shadows on the tourist map due to the general ambiguity, instability in the Greek economy, which you - not personally - are causing and which part of it is your own competence. What do you intend to do about this whole situation? Do you realize what this means to the economy, the market, our place? Minister, on Friday, May 29th, questioned by the New Democracy for infrastructure and regional airports, you described us in this Chamber as dangerous and asked us to tell you even a project - you said so, I do not believe you will forget it - which has been stopped. Your disguise, however, came one day later, on Saturday, when you went down to Chania, that is on your visit to the county where you were elected. There you have been informed that the work has been kept to a minimum. On Wednesday, 3 June, the works were stopped and the contractor made a declaration of closure due to a debt of 6 million euros. And today I inform you, Mr Stathakis, that the projects have been stopped and have not been reopened, they have not come back, despite the announcement, which you have issued as a Ministry, that after your actions everything is running well, that everything is going well and that the work goes ahead. Well, I regret to tell you that the work is not progressing. Otherwise, if you have any other development that I am currently ignoring, I would surely like you to table in this Chamber. At the same time, Minister, - hold another point - at a previous time, in the presence of the Region of Crete, the Mayor of Heraklion and most of the Members of the House - you and the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Spirtzis, committed yourself to a private meeting in your office that, with regard to the airport of "Nikos KAZANTAKIS" you would set up a committee or working group, as you said at the same time, which would study the problems and promote solutions. So I would like to inform you that nothing has happened today and that it has been over two months. And I ask you: is this the government's interest in the much-conscious and multi-speaked Crete? Once again, the government and your ministry are showing their insolence to our place, because beyond the courtesy that they confess to you, this is where you ask and assess your effectiveness. Minister, there is a number of issues that you have exclusive responsibility as Minister for at the moment. And unfortunately, despite the criticality of the period and the situations, we do not see the slightest progress. Firstly, I would like to inform you that airport debts to suppliers reach 20 million. And so far, as you said, only two million regional airports have been guaranteed for all the costs of the whole country's regional airports. And the point is what we're doing from now on. At the same time, one after another, regional airports stop taking night flights. And all this in the middle of the tourist season, because radio approach aids have not been checked, due to the lack of available resources. If you do not know - and I am ending this, Mr President - which airports I am referring to, I can personally inform you. Everything needs to be said publicly, because it is also a strange and extremely critical period. Do you realize, Mr Stathakis, that your policy has drowned the operation of airports?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Ausgeakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u279	Let's start with tourism. I think that statistics for the tourist year 2015, the first quarter, have written an increase in arrivals of 17% and forecasts on an annual basis speak of twenty-five million tourists. The month May probably had a small fall, it is also recorded, but the total operation of the tourist sector shows a marked rise for the current year. Secondly, I note that airport budgets are marginally greater than last year and the search for additional resources, those I mentioned in reply to another question, is precisely the additional part, which we tried to look for at the moment. Thirdly, invoking projects which have stopped, despite delays, in the previous debate was fair. Because projects may have financing problems, but the government has taken too many steps to ensure that large projects are properly covered and directly and in the future. The effort has already been made to mobilise the large loan of 270 million from the European Investment Bank, which has been made with the actions of our Ministry, and it can be seen that it will give a great breath to the completion of the country's major projects that are in progress. So the idea that the government is doing absolutely nothing is true. It does everything possible to deal with the issues under the circumstances. On the issue of airports, as well as their equipment, the upgrading of systems with the commitment of EUR 8 million to upgrade airport security systems, which is also an important task. Finally, I would say about the work that you say it did not start today, endure two - three days. The meeting I had with the contractor was constructive, withdrew the suspension letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u280	It hasn't happened yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u281	Allow me. There was a meeting on Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u282	Today we're talking, it hasn't happened. Don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u283	Friday was the meeting and you resigned because it didn't start on Monday? Be patient two or three days and come back next week and tell me that the project stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u284	I'll do as much as I have to, but don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ignace, accept it, since he's telling you now. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I accept anything Mr Stathakis says. Besides, we're here with good intention. But you won't lie and you won't fool us as well as the Greek people and the Haniots who are watching right now. No application has been made for interruption or reopening of the construction site. So no lies. And also for the airport "Nikos KAZANTAKIS" why didn't you answer us? Don't you care about the second airport arrivals in the country? You have committed yourself to a committee with regional, mayoral and local MPs. What's the position of the Ministry? You've been working on us for two months now? Questions are simple. And the other point is that you invoked some evidence. They're false. Otherwise, test them in the Minutes so that I too can invoke them. But the evidence you said about tourism is false, it's not accurate. And what I have invoked to you is evidence that I have formally requested and received. And I also told you, Mr Stathakis, and do it tomorrow morning - and I witness Mr. Metropoulos, who knows his interest in Crete - that today when we discuss the second airport arrivals in Greece immediately after "ELETERIOS VENIZELOS", he has a reduction. Seek the evidence from the D.A., and bring it here. Mr Minister, I will also go to another issue concerning airports. For the well-known text of the institutional proposal, for which there is a lot of talk, I do not want to go into the discussion process, but I will go into another text. I am going to go into the text of the proposal which you have put to the institutions, in the troika, and which has given me a special impression on two points, and that is why I should like to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u287	The word ‘troika’ is deleted. The Government shall not accept the term and shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u288	Let it be erased from the Minutes. But you in particular, Mr Metropoulou, have not shown the word 'troika' bothering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u289	It is being rejected within Parliament, we say!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u290	So let's go further. Mr Stathakis, you said just before replying to another colleague, that it has evolved well and that we do not discuss something new with regard to privatisation. You're lying again. Well, I am telling you this: in your proposal you tabled to the 'compositions' - do not misunderstand - I read 'private funds' and I confessly did not expect to see that you were giving land and water and I did not expect a privatization boat and within it, of course, all fourteen regional airports, just as the agreement had been promoted by the previous government. I understand it's hard to justify turning from left rhetoric to hard today. In fact, we see all the privatizations that have been agreed with the creditors, except that of the Greek one - I hope not because you want to make this a dump and a dump - and I am referring to a few points. Because you said four months ago, "end of the privatizations, stop the concession of airports" and other such pleasant things to the ears of your voters. I wonder, Mr Paulakis, your colleague in Chania, has read this about the completion of the fourteenth and the additional privatisations of all the regional airports in the country? Didn't you say that the country's government-running company leads to a national, social and economic crime? Didn't you say that SYRIZA would contribute with all its powers to prevent this crime of the government and the troika? Mr Stathakis, we are actually welcoming you to the payroll world and thank you for continuing in the steps of the previous government in this area and I am referring to the agreement of the fourteen airports. Because it is the greatest proof that so long you have swayed it and aroused it and now you are coming to our so-called. But you have to tell the people who have voted for the truth, because this agreement, as it stands, for the fourteen regional airports, you have included it in the proposal yours. Of course, for the privatisations you are proposing, I would ask you to respond on what terms and under what procedures these privatizations will take place. And that's not in your blessing, it's your obligation, I remind you. One more thing, Minister. Kammenos as a government partner, located in Chania and referring to the airport of Chania, said antiquity as he describes it, "The airport of Chania cannot be demilitarised. We will strive to exclude it." How do you really translate this statement to him? Privatization will inevitably proceed. The fighting of the Independent Greeks better to leave them in business. But Mr. Kammenos, inexpensive and irresponsible, states what his constituents want to hear but also the local executives and friends of his party. What are you, as a competent Minister and Haniotis, doing for these so-called fellow minister, a member of the government? Unfortunately, you are committed to the easy rhetoric that you have developed throughout the past period and I am sorry to see that you continue to do so. The second point I want to make on the government's proposal is on page 35, concerning exports. Minister, you're not saying anything at all, just the title. You put a title and not a word below. Don't you have a plan on exports? Don't you have anything to say? For all the rest, were you popular about exports to the proposal that you sent to the Troika - institutions, do you just put a title and zero content? It's yours! [[Laughers in the Chamber]] It's laughing, admittedly, that's for laughing. But I honestly wonder, because when the New Democracy had brought the draft law to the House a year ago: 'The Single Act', which happened to be the rapporteur too, in terms of SYRIZA, a draft law which all the institutions had recognised the positive direction in promoting exports, I remember you very much. You didn't shut your mouth and you did well then. In particular, you, who were rapporteurs, had disagreed and argued that - I have turned to the Minutes and found it - that the government's intervention is of a fragmentary nature, that it is a improvisation and a repetition of negative practices, and that it is not enough to create a new landscape of extroversion in the country. Today, what are you saying? The title? What's the content? Anything? Is that your suggestion? Don't you have a plan on exports and extroversion? How will this new landscape be created in the country you were talking about? Minister, I am sorry to tell you this, but you are experiencing your total self-defence as a government and of course as a party. It's sad. And the saddest thing is that on your back you have the fate of a people and a country. And if we are in danger, as you accused us last Friday on the occasion of our question, you are ignorant of danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u291	Minister, would you like to fill in something with your late Hercules compatriot?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u292	There are too many issues to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u293	Today, the Hercules Members of Parliament have "pained you" properly. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u294	I want to make it clear that I rarely use false evidence. For the truth, for the course of tourism, I would refer you to the annual SETE meeting ten days ago, in which the evidence was evident about the huge rise in arrivals in the number of arrivals in the first four months but also the prospects and forecasts for the whole year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u295	You can testify, so we can get them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u296	The second point is this: I repeat that our privatisation policy is the one I have made in the previous answer and it is clear. They have been removed and there are no further privatisations. I would remind you that in the list of privatizations in the memorandum it was PPC, ELTA and many other organisations. These do not exist in our proposal as much as you look. I am going to the issue of exports. I do not know which version you have had, but I can assure you that there is a text on exports. Our strategy is a given one. We now have a relatively weak organisation, the one we discussed a year ago, 'Enterprise Greece'. This needs too much support, and at the same time other tools, which we are talking about at the moment and are in progress, in order to have a substantial institutional intervention to strengthen this system. A little more patience and you will see what our strategy is on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Minister, Mr. Ausgeakis. It will now be discussed the fourteenth with number 172/30-4-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the legislative guarantee of disability pensions and the incompatibility of first residence. The Minister will answer Mr. George Stathakis. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, let me have a little history of this question. This question was initially tabled to the Treasury, but it remained unanswered. In fact, the services of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Varoufakis' Secretariat, have informed us that it is unauthorized for the Ministry of Finance to answer that question. When we asked her: 'Who are they responsible for?' He answered: "I don't know. Aren't you trying to do shipping, tourism, infrastructure? Or better put Social Solidarity, to be inside." I say this because you are also in the Conference of Presidents and you have the experience to understand how parliamentary toys and questions are working in this Parliament. I had, in fact, found Mr Varoufakis and I say to him: 'What happened with this question? Why don't you answer me?" He says to me: 'What question?' I explain to him what question and he says to me: "I don't know anything. What did they tell you and who told you? I don't know anything. I will send you e-mail and tell you exactly what is going on." We're still waiting for Mr. Varoufakis' email. It seems, he has an e-mail experience, Mr. Varoufakis. In any case, in order to get to the bottom of the matter, this question has come to be discussed with Mr Varoufakis, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Stathakis. So we are talking today about a question - the Golden Dawn, through me - which is not exactly a question, but about a demand for people with disabilities and especially those who are in poverty, who are incapable and with special needs. Of course, instead of the expression'special needs', perhaps, in order to be more precise for these people, we should also say people with special qualifications and not just specific needs. It is about individuals whose nature or an accident has deprived them of the grief of mental or physical excellence, let's say, physical excellence, against the rest in the name of healthy ones. Questions, therefore, and demand: We are asking and demanding that we, the Golden Dawn, through my questioner, do not take any oath from the institutions - the troika with which, unfortunately, you and the previous government are confronted - either by a ministerial decision or by a disability pension, the inconsistency of the disability pensions and the inconsistency of the homes of these people. In particular, to conclude, Mr President, we say that ensuring the minimum standard of living for housing and welfare benefits of the HEIs is the ultimate concern of the modern rule of law. Today, then, we see that none of this is guaranteed for these fellow citizens. And even though these so-called red lines exist - although they fall apart after last Friday's sitting - there is this combination of red lines and the creative ambiguity of the red lines, we are asking for what is unfortunately not guaranteed until now, in other words, the incompatibility of pensions and the incompatibility of the first residence. The question - the demand I would say - will be made by the government to ensure that this debt-neglected debt is guaranteed - and to the public, the ECJ, banks and so on.Huh? And will it apply on a permanent basis - not for one year, but forever - to the inconsistency of the first residence of the disabled or special qualifications of the disabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u299	In the speech, Mr Pappas, it seems - you have made it quite clear to us - that the wording 'concerning the legal protection of disability pensions has been worded'. However, you are asking for the incompatibilities of disability pensions to be awarded. Is that right? Because the pronunciation here, if you'll see, is different. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u300	As you know, in the existing legislation - I am referring to the Code on Public Revenue and Law 4254/2014 - there can be no confiscation of wages, pensions and insurance benefits paid periodically for amounts of less than EUR 1,500, and in cases of larger amounts the seizure can only represent one quarter of the amount. This obviously also applies to disability pensions. Of course, it is a fact, which I recognise, that there is no positive discrimination in favour of disability pensions, as there is in many other legislations, as we will then see for the protection of first residence. In this regard, however, the only flexibility available in addition is the possibility offered to the Head of the DU at the request of the debtor to limit by reasoned decision the amount or percentage of confiscation imposed. So this is the only additional element that gives the current legislature the possibility of an additional protection of small and medium-sized enterprises. We are, however, going to further strengthen by legislative regulation the MEDAs in this category, because this is how the legislator should do. The president knows better. As far as the second question, as you know, when there is disability, especially more than 67%, the criteria for protecting the first home increase. The protection of first residence is therefore also provided for in the law we are preparing for the protection of first residence, so that there are broad criteria for small and medium-sized enterprises. From there on, the policy of protecting the first home is part of the policy and the debate we have had with the institutions and we have reached an agreement, which relates to the whole process of management of a very delicate issue as that is. However, there is provision for protection with particularly increased conditions for the first residence of AMEs. Until then, of course, we have ensured in various ways that first home auctions are not carried out. This has not happened so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the last one. The Minister said that it was ensured that no auctions were made for the first place. Here is the MP, the competitor, Mr Lagos, who is under house arrest, but the rivals of the local organization of the Piraeus Golden Dawn are every day in the courtrooms and courts in order to stand up for, treat and even rescue the homes of people who are confiscated. You're not well informed about this. Also, as far as MEDIs are concerned, you said, I think, by vaguely "We intend...". We are asking for a ministerial decision today, now, tomorrow morning, not even a piece of legislation. We ask for a ministerial decision for the most vulnerable part of the Greek people, who are the innocuous LEADER, our peoples with disabilities. That means a social state. We have not said what you said: 'In agreement with the institutions, we will bring the legislation or do...'. Cleaners are good. That's good for the ERT black you're talking about. We also voted to hire the cleaners and go back to their jobs and the ERT journalists. But you, at the moment for communications, are looking - and you're probably watering - the tree, despite the forest. We, therefore, from this forest, from all over the Greek people, say the smallest trees, the most vulnerable ones, the winds, which are the people with special needs that you have a duty - and we demand that - tomorrow morning to make ministerial decisions - I do not know who will take them if they are Mr Stathakis or Mr Varoufakis or any other minister - and to protect the pensions of these people and their homes. You said about the inconvenience. You said the DU's chief of staff helps the man with a problem and special needs. So we're going to put the head of the DUI in place to protect our unfaithful fellowman? We're going to get to the point where I saw her on the Internet just now, a woman who took her sick child abroad to worship and kiss your colleague Minister's hand? Is that the state? Is that the social state? That is what we demand, Minister. I don't want you to answer us. You don't have to answer for a second. I want you to do tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Minister, would you like to add something to this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u304	First of all, my position was clear in the courts and residences. It was about housing loans for first residence. For commercial or other reasons, there are indeed courts, but commercial law and not housing loans. I repeat that I share the idea that the legislator's spirit in all matters is that there should be specific broadening limits for small and mediumsized enterprises. LEIs currently fall under the rule of 1500 euros inconsistent with salaries, pensions and all forms of allowances, plus the flexibility provided by the legislator. Any enlargement in the spirit of the legislature must be done and we shall do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u305	Thank you. We are finishing with the sixth Question No 201/11-5-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the reform of the rules of operation of TIERISIA S.A., finding a solution for businessmen, traders and farmers who are unable to meet the financial obligations, as well as the re-bidding of the first home auctions. The question will be answered by the Minister of Economy, Mr. George Stathakis. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since 2009 overcompensation has emerged as the most important problem for Greek society. Thousands of households have come to despair because of the policies applied. The only legislation, which actually protects vulnerable households, was and is Law 3869/2010. It is the only piece of legislation throughout the European Union, which protects the first residence, known as the 'Katelis law'. By 2014, we banned auctions. We start the first question from the question of the last. To date it is not an honour for this government, while it was in the programme, not to pass an amendment to suspend auctions. What for? First of all, it does not cost anything, and secondly, we who had this flag cannot, when the auctions were suspended in New Democracy and in PASOK, today cannot be suspended. Second question: Red loans. To prevent your answer that it's in the deal and in the negotiation, as a Ministry you have designed, have you spoken with the Association of Greek Banks, with consumer associations, banks want houses or cash? In a EUR 150,000 housing loan with an objective value of EUR 80,000, Minister, the bank will only receive EUR 80,000. So he'll even get it out in the auction, he'll collect half of it. Should there be a haircut? Debt management above all, Minister, is psychological and then legal and economic. The fact that the Greek citizen knows that his first residence will not be auctioned is very important. Above all it's psychology for the market. What you're saying is there's no auction, I'm not personally covered. I would like you to say, 'I cannot answer and I do not answer', because I have dealt with this very much. The suspension of the auctions costs nothing, neither at political level nor in legal or financial matters. The banks themselves want the money. To suspend the auctions tomorrow morning - not the confiscation, as Mr Pappas said, namely the inconvenience - to suspend until the end of the year or at least until the end of the negotiation, strengthens the psychology of the Greek citizen. Also, in red loans, what is the planning of the Ministry? Which body will take care of it? Will it be a public body, or will it take up banks again, as Mr Hatzidakis did? Will agricultural loans be included in the planned arrangement? These are questions which employ thousands of Greek citizens, whether they are farmers or free traders. Also, about TIERISIA, although the Greek BANK is a public limited company, what are you planning as a Ministry? Can you intervene to reform TIERISIA, which has had a negative impact on the backbone of the Greek economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Red. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u308	Mr Cockfield, we all share the intentions of this particular question. But as you all know, it's an integral part of the agreement. There have been exhaustive discussions on this matter. I think it can be seen that we have come up with a strategy that is positive and beneficial. It will give an answer to all the problems that exist. As you know, it will include all the elements, namely the Katseli Act, which will speed up through specific predictions, since cases are now avenged in fifteen years. There must be procedures for speeding up and protecting and proper regulation and safeguards. So this is a matter to which we would like you to give us some time. When we all want the agreement to be made, the overall strategy on this issue will also be able to be transparent. In any case, the law of Katseli is certainly in force and has already applied to it a hundred seventy - seven thousand households. It's the most protective tool right now. For the other issues you have raised, especially the issues of TIERIA, he, as you know, is a private company and does not come within the government's interference. Possibly, if there are issues which concern institutional or other aspects of good functioning, we can be open to discussion. But, in essence, it is very difficult to take some concrete action. With regard to other forms of loans, such as commercial loans, which contain the first residence, we need to see very detailed how they can give the right protection to the objective that we all want centrally and which is the protection of first residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Minister. Give your government partner some time too. Did you hear what he said? Well, don't push!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u310	Many things are much easier. Minister, as far as the question is concerned, at least in the part concerning TIERISIA, I will respect your answer because it is a private company and there can be no legislative initiative at its expense because it is an anonymous company. However, the question was about protecting first residence. The Katseli law is well known. The protection of the consumer, however, of the borrower, is a matter of state and not of justice. We cannot force every citizen to appeal to justice. Is the protection of first home in your immediate plans? Immediately on specific terms and conditions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u311	Well done, Mr. Comrade! I congratulate you on the brief. Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u312	Obviously, they are in our immediate plans, with strong social criteria and, of course, taking care of the stability and banking system. We are looking for this balance. I think we'll get it. Give us some time and our announcements will be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u313	We have invoked you here in a sense, unanimously, as soon as possible and as essentially as possible. We congratulate you and thank you. We were set to finish at 00 o'clock. You took it at 23.50 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-08-S1-commons.u314	With the consent of the House at 23.50 p.m. the sitting on Thursday 11 June 2015 at 9.30 p.m. on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny a) a statement of reference and b) a debate on topical and urgent questions.
