ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", ninety-six officers and two escort officers from the PALASKA Education Centre. The House welcomes them and thanks them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Maritime Affairs: "Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the cooperation and activities of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the Hellenic Republic." In plenary, if I remember correctly, in yesterday's Conference of Presidents we decided to vote on Wednesday. In addition, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Environment and Energy, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy and Tourism, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Culture and Sport, Economic, Maritime and Island Policy, and the Deputy Ministers of Economy, Development and Tourism, National Defence, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, have tabled a draft law on 29-10-2015: ‘Retiremental provisions, Incorporation into Greek law of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on Energy Efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC, as amended by Directive 2013/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 May 2013 on the adaptation of the European Union Energy Union’, as amended by Council Directive 2012/12/EU and Council Directive 2013/27/EU. It is referred to the Co-responsible Committees for Production and Trade, Economics and Forums, which will begin - if they have not already started, in any case - their debate today. In the anticipation and decision of the Conference of Presidents, this bill will be discussed next Wednesday and Thursday in the House. In other words, next Wednesday we will begin with the small ratification - the previous bill I told you - and we will continue with this multi-legislative bill, which will continue on Thursday on the articles. I would also like to inform you, outside the text, that the draft law on the recapitalisation of banks has been tabled. According to the decision of the Conference of Presidents, this afternoon at 17.00 this afternoon - to have the minimum time to study this bill - the Committee on Economic Affairs will meet. Tomorrow in plenary, in accordance with the ten-hour procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure for urgent procedure, from 10.00 a.m. to 20.00 a.m., the bill will be passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Pursuant to Rules 129 and 132 of the Rules of Procedure, the Prime Minister will answer the first question under No 43/26-10-2015 of the first cycle of the Prime Minister of Athens, Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakou, on the country's refugee - immigration policy. I think it is good that three weeks immediately after the new parliament's vow, this process begins with the presence and intervention of the Prime Minister of the country. The honourable Member has the floor for two minutes in order to develop his timely question. In these procedures there is always a greater comfort of time - we know it - to have a substantial debate. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, this is a very critical and serious matter. It is therefore important to have tolerance to the issue of time. Prime Minister, today's debate is under a very heavy shadow. The shadow of drowning and shipwrecking in Greek territorial waters. But then there's an agreement that has your own approval. The agreement of 25 October of the summit with the countries of the Balkan corridor of refugees. That is to say, the country has made very heavy commitments, with vague compensation and vague compensation - I would say with no compensation. When the summit ended, you made statements and said that you were prevented from fighting hard, unacceptable proposals. But I must tell you that 'unacceptable' particularly on the subject you mentioned at the time, namely the obligation or the proposal to create a camp of fifty thousand refugees or a town of fifty thousand refugees in Greece, such a proposal has never been formally tabled, Prime Minister. There was no such proposal from the partners and you know it unless you negotiate with SPIEGEL. Unless you're negotiating with press releases and not real proposals. On the contrary, from what you have said, you committed yourself to the stay and hospitality of fifty thousand refugees: thirty thousand in some area we do not know - we do not know whether these infrastructures exist, we do not know what conditions these people will remain in the country in the winter - and twenty thousand in an unprecedented rent practice. You took responsibility for it, and Greece is the only one of the countries that participated in this meeting, which has been given quantitative and time commitments. You promised that these will apply in two months. But you said one more thing, that "happily" you prevented third-country nationals from refusing to accept or accept refugees coming from Greek territory and going to their own territory. You said you did that. But in paragraphs 3 and 14 of the seventeen points of 25 October, you have agreed completely different things, but quite different things. So the risk of hundreds of thousands of refugees and immigrants being captured in our country is both present and immediate. And in order not everyone will claim what they want, I present, Prime Minister, and the statement of the seventeen points, but also your statements, for a comparative study. But the statements say, but they refer to the text you signed. [[At this point Mr Georgios Koumoutsaskos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Every time you talk about successes, you know, we're worried. Because other things you say in public and others you agree. You did it with the memorandum, and I'm afraid you did it with the refugee. And we need to see where the truth is. The basic question, Prime Minister, is one: why did you make these commitments without any visible compensation? How will you implement these commitments? Where will the thirty thousand refugees settle? Are there any infrastructure? What conditions in winter? What does it mean to grant the rent for twenty thousand refugees? How will it be subsidised for how long? Where will they be, where will these apartments be by the end of December? Who says it will not be rented by one and will ultimately be staying twenty or thirty or forty refugees in the same apartment? How will social cohesion be ensured? How will you ensure that this policy does not strengthen extreme racist and xenophobic forces in Greek society? How can you talk at the same time about temporary hospitality, but also about integration into the social fabric? What's the matter with both of you? Where's the truth? And I come back to the main issue. Faced with these commitments, which are heavy and substantial, what did the country get? See the example of Turkey. It's completely different from what you show up here. Turkey has won without any commitment. It earned financially: aid of EUR 3 billion. He has won politically: almost lifting the visa ban for Turkish citizens. He won geostrategically: they are recognized as a key role throughout the region of the Eastern Mediterranean. We, nothing! And what is operational coordination between Greece and Turkey? How will it be ensured? Who's going to take care of him? Is it still undercover - why do I see from yesterday's meeting with Mr Steinmeyer here the talks - is it still alive to have joint patrols? All this creates reasonable concerns. All of this creates reasonable and great concerns among the inhabitants of the islands, which Mr Konsolas, Mr Kyriazides, Mr Kefaliannis, Mr Athanasios also carry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Kumucaco, hurry, please. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u4	Yes, Mr. President. And yet, as the Group of the European People's Party has shown, Mr President, when it has been necessary, we have supported it, because we always put the interests of the country above all else. This is what the Party President, Mr Meimarakis, has done, leading Mrs Merkel to not even mention indirectly the possibility or possibility of mixed Greek Turkish patrols in the Aegean Sea. And finally, we said with pain that today's debate is under the heavy shadow of drowning and shipwrecking. This is an inhumane situation. Let me remind you that in corresponding tragic cases, in accidents, in tragic situations, in 2014, as Opposition, you asked the Government to assume political responsibilities for the loss of people. You have asked for resignations, involving essentially and exposing the country internationally that we have not done our work well. Listen, Mr President, we with this issue of this type of second-class opposition are not going to make a cheap opposition. We are here to ask you to clarify whether Greece is in danger of becoming, in your own words, a'storey of souls'. If there is to be a vast settlement of hundreds of thousands of refugees and immigrants, which cannot be managed by the country in its economic situation. You have a responsibility for this, and we expect answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Your Honour. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Kumoucasco for this question, because it is really timely and gives me the opportunity, especially after the incidents that we have seen from the receivers of our televisions - and I am referring to yesterday's tragic wreck, one of the dozens that is happening almost daily in the Aegean Seas - to express my deep grief in this House, the enormous suffering for the dozens of deaths, for this human tragedy that is evolving in our seas. I would like to stress that in these days, the Aegean waves have not merely eroded dead refugees, dead children, but are eroding European civilisation itself, because it has not been possible to remain unaware of a humanitarian tragedy that has been evolving under the responsibility of the West, under the responsibility of the Western governments. Because the military interventions in the region were not interventions, which were carried out in order to show the necessary democratisation of these states, but to show geopolitical interests which were badly estimated not to have such tragic consequences from the governments of the West and the European Union. Today those who sprinkled winds reap storms. Only these storms are mainly for the first-host countries. I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that as a member of this European leadership, representing the country at these summits, from the previous February with our own - my own and the Italian Prime Minister - an application was made for the first summit to address the humanitarian crisis and the refugee problem, which at the time in the European Union did not consider it to be about the Aegean, Turkey. They only requested - and it will take place on 14 November in Valetta, Malta - a European Union conference with the African countries, considering that the problem only concerns Libya, the migration flows from the Libyan country to the Mediterranean, focusing on the dramatic wrecks in Lampedusa. Since then we have asked for consultation with Turkey, knowing, as all of you - and I imagine - that since then there have been dozens, hundreds of thousands of refugees from Syria. I would therefore like to say that I feel as a member of this European leadership ashamed, both for Europe's inability to deal effectively with this human tragedy and for the level of the debate that is taking place at the top level, which one is trying to throw the ball at the other. And there are hypocritical and crocodile tears for the dead children on the Aegean coast. Because the dead children are very much liked to all of us and we are sad, but the living children who come by tens of thousands and stacked on the refugee road do not like them and are not the subject of sympathy. I would like to say that this level of leadership of the European Union is a sad level - the level of debate I mean - and it demonstrates Europe's inability to defend its values, at the same time that some governments, perhaps following the same concept that you, Mr Kumucaco, have, adopt the logic of raising walls, barbed wires at the border between countries - countries of the European Union. And because I think I am responding to Members who are, from a different ideological start, a common European vision, to tell you that, in my own perception, from a left-wing perspective, the European vision was born when the Berlin Wall fell that separated the same people. And today this European vision is dying when some countries raise walls and wires to prevent refugees from crossing their borders. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So our first task, ladies and gentlemen, is now our humanitarian task. And I would like to take this opportunity to express my sympathy, solidarity, my congratulations to the men and women of the Greek Coast Guard who are saving hundreds of human lives every day. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For, of course, the main task of the Coast Guard is legality and border care. But these days, even greater duty is to save human lives. When life is at risk at sea, then this is the primary task of humanity. And I really felt very unpleasant when some country leaders - there is no point in talking about who - at the summit last Sunday, in the same way that some from the opposition had hoped for the Greek Government, which was talking about the humanitarian task of saving lives, accused us of being unable to guard, he says, our borders. And when the question was raised, under international law, when people are at risk in territorial waters, what is the primary task - their repulsion or rescue? - they didn't have to answer. I hope you have an answer to this question, Mr Kumucaco, because it is crucial. Our primary task, then, at this time is to rescue these tortured people and limit the humanitarian tragedy. And this is a humanitarian task, a duty of solidarity with people who have left their country to build their lives, which have been destroyed by war and desolation. And as Greeks we know what refuge means. We younger ones from the narratives of our grandparents and grandparents know what refugee meant and especially those islands that are now living in this tragedy are the islands that have lived the refugee in their flank. It is also our duty to do what goes through our hand, even to overcome our possibilities, so that we do not relive moments like yesterday's day, not to allow others dead, not to allow the Aegean to become a cemetery of the sea. In order to be able to serve this task, it is necessary at European level to take a stand of responsibility, a position consistent with the values of Europe that tends to lose them. And much more, we need not be horrendously reflexive to the refugee flows and avoid risky, constantly isolating extreme and anti-racist voices, both in Europe and in Greece. It is not an issue that is offered for anti-political rhetoric exercises. It is an issue that goes beyond us and we need to deal with it and raises existential issues for all Western societies, not just for the Greek one. Mr Kumucako, we know very well what the challenges and the risks are in managing the refugee crisis, but we also know well that we cannot manage it effectively if we choose a attitude of appalling and defensive. We cannot manage it effectively, as a country and as a society, if we choose to close ourselves in our crab and pretend that nothing happens and lay the blame on the other side. We cannot be useful either in Europe or in refugees or in Greek citizens, although we choose, as others do in our neighbourhood, simply to play the role of Europe's fortress. If we chose this, we would only create the conditions for a future explosion of huge scales and incalculable costs for Greece and for the whole of Europe. On the contrary, we must - and that is what we are doing - adopt an active and interventionative attitude to explain the problem in Europe, as many countries consider it not to be touching them, but also to address and manage the specific problems that are encountered in Greece. In this context, and with this humanitarian and solidarity attitude to the problem, the Greek Government ensures Greece's positions at European level and at the same time, as I think it is clear from the statements by European officials, that it is on the part of the crisis, that part of the effort for more effective and human management and a solution to the refugee problem. And that is the right policy for our country: to have a constructive attitude, to contribute with concrete proposals and actions and to play the role of a link between Europe, the European Union and Turkey, not just to monitor the debate that is currently taking place between the European Union and Turkey. This is a policy that can enhance our country's position, make it useful and strengthen its geopolitical potential. Because this must be the role of Greece: not the role of a voyage and a poor relative who simply calls for additional funds but for an active role, a role of an equal partner and a protagonist, not only in the refugee but on all the issues of multi-crisis management, in which we have - and because of a geographical position - to be in the eye of the cyclone. I would like to remind you here that, unlike New Democracy, we have seen the problem and the size of the problem from the outset, we have put it both locally and at European and international level and have not led to statements and communications that expose our country internationally. On the contrary, your party, Mr Kumucako, in the past, did not hesitate, with official statements and opinions from the Stepping of the House, to characterise refugees and refugees as 'roots of illegal immigrants' and to accuse the newly elected government as a government which is causing the problem of a global problem throughout Europe. Flows that mankind has never seen since World War II you then accused us, in April, of causing them by our newly elected government. But now, indeed, I too want to acknowledge the fact that you have now realised the difference of refugee flows from migration and you have stopped insisting on reports which I think are bad for you and our country as well. After all, Mr Kumucako, I know that you have a term of office in the European Parliament and such approaches were not for your own reason. I now come to the specific questions you have raised, hoping to answer what I can do with my prototype. As far as I can't do it, I'll have the second one to answer it. The informal Brussels summit was a summit which - you know - had the countries of the refugee flows corridor and the ending countries - Austria and Germany - and which lacked a critical country, Turkey. We had the aisle, but we didn't have the door opening and the flows entering the hallway, and that was wrapped up from the beginning. So in this session we have made it clear that in recent months Greece has lifted the burden, but at the same time has the honour with its attitude to rescue the humanitarian person in Europe. The dramatic dimensions of the problem, however, show that this is a problem that goes beyond the scope of a country to manage it on its own. We have therefore pointed out that there is an urgent need for the problem to be addressed through the principle of solidarity, cooperation and shared responsibility. As I said at the European Council meeting, the European Union has moved at a slow pace, tortoise, as I have said attributes. At this time, however, he is trying in the right direction to consult with Turkey and, at the same time, to organise and coordinate the relocation - and relocation - of the resettlement - that is, the refugee flows are organised by both the first host country and Greece, but that is also the objective - of Turkey itself. We must therefore force Europe to deal with this issue more decisively and with better coordination between states. The first point you have raised concerns the existence in the original discussion text of the proposal concerning the requesting of a neighbouring country to transfer refugees from another country there. This report with our own strong criticism and pressure has withdrawn. I want to tell you here that it is not just a reference, a word in a text. It is a concept which we must unite together in Europe. Europe is being pushed at this time by governments that adopt for internal reasons, due to the pressures of internal public opinion, a attitude which is appalling, a attitude which wants to throw responsibility away from the next country, and this pressure has been translated into a decision that adopted the logic of, in two words, that, slowly, it must not just be controllable - that is legitimate - but that flows should begin to be excluded. I would therefore like to ask you, from this point of view, to state and ask you to agree together that such a logic cannot be accepted. I would like to point out that it is not only unacceptable that there should be a commonly announced verbally implying the possibility of refusing countries to allow refugees to cross their borders, but that our country will ask the next summits to expressly and officially condemn the choice of walls, the choice of fences and closed borders to refugees from countries - members of the European Union. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I come to the third point of the conclusions. The third point of the conclusions of the last decision, following our intervention, has been changed in relation to the original wording and simply this wording ensures minimum, namely the need for a good level of communication between the countries in the region for the number of refugee flows and understanding, which Greece has already done. Greece is informed of the refugee flows and is officially recognised for the first time that these flows exist and will exist. Identity and international communication are, of course, needed for their management. But these flows will exist as long as the vision, the dream of these people live a better life. I note here - to remove misunderstandings - that our country's firm position is not to encourage land or sea - and how much more - at the risk of losing lives uncontrolled refugee flows from Turkey to the rest of Europe. Our position is to support a structured resettlement process directly from Turkey to Europe and for those in the relocation process who have already passed from Greece to the European countries. So the reference to the discouragement of secondary flows is not something that should concern us. Secondary flows, therefore, should be discouraged, precisely because we do not want these people to suffer at risk of losing their lives, drowning in the Aegean Sea, or passing through these pedestrian pedestrians at the border in the snow and cold. We want their relocation to take place in a coordinated and legitimate way. This process of relocation in a legitimate way will also start from our homeland. Secondly, in my statement after the summit, I said that we prevented the creation of a whole city of fifty thousand refugees. Look, I did not refer to the text of 'SPIEGEL', as you mentioned in a report. I do not know where you have internal information about what is going on in talks behind closed doors. I would urge you to address and ask the Greek Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos, who was present. There was this request, Mr Kumucako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u7	It's not registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u8	There was - if you want - in the most official way, but because you are aware of the procedures, you know that the most dangerous things are not put in the official way and that the devil often hides in the details. So there was this request on the part of partners in the logic that this will help the relocation process, create a centre - I would call it a refugee camp - to carry out the relocation in this way. Irrespective of the intentions of those who have made this proposal - I do not want to judge them - the adoption of such a proposal would lead to the opposite effects, because it would create a ghetto, it would strengthen racistly reflexive and it would not help these people, nor would the need to provide them with the best possible hospitality services, first aid in this temporary period until they are relocated. Let me stress at this point that the commitment we made to increase the capacity of the reception centres is an absolutely understandable and positive one and we want - and we must - to implement it as soon as possible. Don't confuse each other. It is another thing to want to build a ghetto, even to strengthen the European Union, so that we can increase our capacity to provide first aid, to host and identify these people at the same time. First of all, I must tell you that these positions are not permanent residences. They are temporary places on both the five islands, where the graduation of the stay of refugees in the so-called 'hot spots', as they badly called them, in the reception centres, were three days, as well as in the accommodation areas in the mainland, where, from the outset, the possibility of twenty thousand places was predicted. We'll probably share them in Attica and northern Greece in the mainland. The refugees who are waiting for the official relocation process remain there. So there stay can't exceed, maximum for the two months. Secondly, I would like to point out that it is good to increase positions in the reception centres, because only in this way will we be able to implement the sixty-six thousand refugees relocation programme in Europe, which we have agreed at previous European summits. Finally, it is important because this is the only way we can manage these flows in the difficult conditions that come in the heavy winter. We have therefore fully agreed, ladies and gentlemen, with the European Union's proposal to support us directly with financial assistance, as is stated in Article 5 of the communication, as a precondition. But to do what? Just what the Minister and the Ministry of Migration Policy planned from the outset together with the High Commissioner: seven to eight thousand places on the five islands, first reception centres and 20 thousand people in the inland. Instead of the idea of a refugee camp, we have proposed and adopted the idea in the future - we do not have to implement this by the end of the year - to rent Greek families a rent so that they can also be housed on a temporary basis for the twenty thousand refugees. As has become clear, these refugees will also be available for relocation, namely those who will stay in subsidised rents. As the High Commissioner points out, however, this measure allows the hospitality of these people in much better conditions and at the same time will also give the possibility of even a small but significant benefit to the Greek families to be subsidised in order to accommodate refugees in rent rooms. But because I'm too far away, Mr. Kumucaco, I want to come down from the Stepma to get the floor. I imagine that in my dentext I will have the opportunity to refer to the crucial issue of our relationship with Turkey, the issue of joint patrols, but also to your question concerning any 'benefits' that the country may have - economically I mean - regarding the possibility of dealing with these flows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor. Thank you and the President for sharing your time with the relevant economy. Thank you. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] I mean, they spread their protology and dentext to their time. They don't have the same time, but Mr. Kumucascus will speak as much as he wants. We said comfort!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I am not going to take the step. Mr President, this is not about time. The question is the answers, the answers we have not received, at least in the originals of the Prime Minister. I hope we have something more specific in dentistry. And we have no specific answer to the basic question I raised: What is the compensation that the country has made for this commitment? I would also like to thank the rapporteur for her report and also for the work she has done. Before I go to these, however, I would like to say this: the Prime Minister referred to Europe. Look, you have previously opposed the government, now you are opposed to opposition, and today you are also opposed to Europe. Not that she did her job well. He delayed and delayed much, despite the fact that there were signs, there were phenomena, there were strong signs of the crisis that was coming. It has been long delayed and we must stress it. But can we alone? We're getting beyond the problem. We therefore need Community solidarity. That is why we must also be very consistent with what we undertake to do. But here you took things that the country can't do. We'll be accountable in two months. You cannot find infrastructure facilities in two months for thirty thousand people. The rental system cannot function. I have to tell you that yesterday at the Regional Council, your District Commissioner, Mr Duru, was completely ignorant of how this commitment will be implemented. And without the help of local government you can't do it. But she didn't know. He had no idea! Let's go to some other issues you raised. I see that today you have recognised the role of the Port House. Then you have denounced it, today you congratulate it. We, the heroic effort many times, congratulated the port and we congratulate it on the difficult task, and now we congratulate it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But I see that by means of this recognition of the role of the port, indirectly but clearly a move of your policy begins. Prime Minister, refugee immigration is a complex issue. It has its main dimension, which is humanitarian, but it also has a security dimension for the host country. You were ignoring this dimension as an opposition. You find out now, but time is gone. You started entangled in ideoscopy, which led you in the seven months of the previous government to full inappropriateness, and now you are trapped in inefficiency, as is apparent from what you agreed on 25 October. And I'm becoming more specific. Why am I coming back to his question about what you got? In the text of the seventeen points, the fifth point says that the implementation of the commitment to the fifty thousand - thirty thousand plus twenty thousand - refugees is a precondition for the internal relocation mechanism to be started in Europe. So it's not running now. We must first do what we have agreed and then start the relocation mechanism. And at what rate is that going to happen? I'm telling you it's begun. We are talking about a few dozen or hundreds who have started relocation to other countries - members of the European Union, and the decision has been taken for months. At this rate, as New York TimES recently wrote in their article, it will take about half a century to relocate a hundred and sixty thousand people. Did you ensure on 25 October other rates? And why did you accept such a condition to start the mechanism? One more thing. The refund mechanism when will it begin? We are prepared and what infrastructure do we have at the moment to start the return mechanism, namely those who have no right to asylum or who have illegally entered the country? You said something about illegal immigrants. You know, we play with words. In Greek, whoever reads without being allowed, is called a smuggler, who hunts illegally, is called a poacher. Anybody who is in the middle of a...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u11	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u12	Let's hear first. Anyone who is illegally invading an instrument is called a smuggler.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u13	It's called illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u14	You demonize a term, which in fact in Greek, when identified with a man, may cause a problem. However, when you are criticising an entire policy - which was more effective than yours - on this condition, you are wrong. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Do you want to make a war of words or give answers to problems, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u15	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u16	So, to finish with them, the illegally entering and those who are not entitled to asylum must finally begin the refund procedure. And here comes the issue with Turkey. What did you ensure in terms of Turkey's return? You know that there is a bilateral Greek-Turkish agreement between 2002 and today. They don't do it. We have called - look - forty-four thousand returns to Turkey over the years, and Turkey has accepted three thousand eight hundred out of a hundred forty-four thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u17	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u18	Did you ensure something by giving this commitment to the 50 thousand? Have you ensured or pressed that FRONTEX not only patrols the sea - which is very difficult, because if our fellowman is drowning, we cannot ignore him - but patrols in cooperation with Turkey on Turkish territory to hit, take out, end with the circuits of slaves and traffickers? That would really be an offer in the country. Have you started a debate on 'hot spots', i.e. the mechanisms for recording, in the peripheral countries of the crisis, in Turkey, in Lebanon, in Jordan? We also need to involve the international community, Prime Minister, because on this issue Greece is also being called upon to deal with a European issue, and Europe has an international issue. None of this can be done without the involvement of the international community. We have not received any substantial answers, Mr President. Perhaps in your dentistry the debate is more essential, but you have again opposed opposition. Prime Minister, this game of transfer of responsibility has to end. In democracies governments are ruling and opposition is opposing. That's the way it is. It's not going backwards. We can't take care of you and it's 23% now. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Listen to something else. You chose to rule. We had multiple elections to claim the country's responsibility for governance. You've got it. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, Don't give up on us because we don't make proposals. We have and I can give you a dozen proposals, but that is not the point. You cannot be irresponsible opposition and irresponsible government. Government and ensure that the country does not become an endless refugee and immigrants' camp, legal and illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u19	Mr President-in-Office has the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u20	Mr Kumucako, your dentistry has proved not only that you have no proposals, but also that you are not well aware of the issues you are asking. I will not respond in polite terms, but I will try to answer the substance of it not to you, but to Parliament and to the Greek people, because at the moment we are dealing with a crucial issue of national responsibility, to which it does not belong, nor to any plaque or ingenuity. Well, listen. On the issue of refugees, the refugee crisis, we are facing a problem that goes beyond Europe's capabilities, not a small country in the economic crisis. And how to deal with this and whether there is a level of real political national understanding is a crucial issue. So I want to answer very specifically. You forsake us, he says, because we did not gain anything from this process, because we did not enter the bazaar, as you quite rightly say, does Turkey and claim some billions. Why does he claim them? In order to do what it needs to do as a country claiming to join the European Union, to respect human rights and to secure borders with the European Union until it joins. Let us, then, join the bazaar and tell the European partners: "Watch to see if you don't give us anything more, as Turkey is now asking for, we will let these people drown, we will leave them without a plate of food and without help and we will threaten you from above that we will transfer them at our own expense, secretly at night, to cross your borders." Is that what we will do in the European Union?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u21	We never said that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u22	Is that what we're gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u23	Away from us...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u24	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u25	So since you did not say that, let's say that we're going to reach agreement on the substance. The point is that we are not, Mr Kumucaco, illegal immigrants. I am very sorry, because I did not expect you to adopt these designations, indeed by making some verbal acronyms.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u26	I didn't adopt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u27	Because through the misuse of linguistic determination, if we continue this logic and say that whoever comes from smuggling is a smuggler, we could also adopt the view that those who do not have the same color as us are second-class people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u28	All right, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u29	To God, Mr. Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u30	That's too much!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u31	I don't give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u32	Yeah, but don't say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u33	But I say he needs attention. It takes attention, because a society which has been under severe economic pressure in recent years, which has also led to social tensions, do you know how easy it is to adopt the idea that the person responsible for unemployment is the foreigner in our country? In fact, some of these voices come not only from the extreme top right seats of the House, but they are unfortunately also from your lineup, perhaps from other parts. The country, he says, has as many unemployed as the immigrants here are. It is not the responsibility of social and economic policy, it is the responsibility of the people who come here! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Prime Minister is ringing.]] Do you know what these people work for? They do work that no Greek, unfortunately or happily, is willing to take over. We are therefore saying that, in the face of a global problem, we must demand a global and European solution, without entering into the temptation of populism, in order to claim the vote, because this populism shows disgraceful and racist perceptions, and then we wonder why the Golden Dawn has reached 7%. So I want to come to the critical issues. As far as Turkey is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u34	For the visa, tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u35	On the subject of visas, which you said, first of all, it should concern Germany itself, because Germany currently has three million Turkish citizens. It is the liberation of the visa that will lead to another three million - perhaps more - their relatives visiting them with absolute freedom and possibly half of them staying and never returning back. So you realise that here we have to deal with problems with acidity and see what the country's interests are right now. Others have more reservations and inhibits in bravely moving a policy of understanding and supporting Turkey into an accession perspective. I'll tell you something. I feel that no political force - at least of those governing the place - of any of the parties in power, namely New Democracy and PASOK, has ever been against Turkey's European perspective, but on the condition that Turkey fulfils those conditions, those rules laid down in the accession process. So, in the face of Turkey's prospect of joining the European Union, we must not be the poor and fearful relatives, but we must be the ones who have been claiming to start the process, but Turkey must respect its commitments to democracy, human rights and international law, so that the illegal occupation of the northern part of Cyprus is finally brought to an end forty years. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] This is a attitude of national responsibility to this issue. The Greek Government intends to take the initiative. We do not intend to allow Mrs Merkel to negotiate Europe with Turkey. We are the European neighbours of Turkey and we must be the ones who are going to take initiatives in the process of necessary dialogue with Turkey. I shall refer to the issue of joint patrols. Why do you put it again after this issue has been resolved in all ways? We have raised it, both with my own statements and with the statements by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and now you see that all Europeans after the first word failures return to a logic that says 'coordinated patrols'. They don't talk about joint patrols. And can I tell you something? The strong argument on this issue, for our part, concerns not only the absurd claims and demands of Turkey in the Aegean, but also the fact that joint patrols along with FRONTEX in Greek, namely in European territorial waters, are completely ineffective. It is not necessary, precisely because everyone knows that in Greek, that is, in European territorial waters, all they can do, whether the Greek coastguard forces or FRONTEX, or whether we are patrolling together - which we would never allow - to do so - with Turkish coast guards, would be rescue. Because that is what International Law defines us. On the shores of Turkey, however, where boats start, these trafficker rottens, aiming to cross them across, to pierce the boats and to let these people drown there on the shores, in the hundreds, in the hundreds, in the five hundred meters, there can be a substantial patrol. So you asked us what we got. I will tell you that all of these things you have raised, and the hot spot issue in Turkey, in Lebanon, in Jordan, in those areas that currently have huge refugee flows and also the issue of the readmission agreement between the European Union and Turkey - not Greece - which will obviously also include Greece, but also the question of effective patrolling on the Turkish coast and of combating not only refugees but traffickers, those people who trade human souls in all these three issues, are at the top of the agenda of the negotiation that the European Commission is currently doing with Turkey. This is a negotiation in which we want to participate actively, as I told you before. However, I would like to make a comment on this. You keep telling us what you got and what you got. Listen, Mr. Kumucako! I would also like to make it quite clear on this point. Really, how much do you cost for a human life? How much do you cost a child, a five-year-old kid who drowns in the Aegean Seas, and we have to take it to save? How much do you cost a plate of food, a human hug, a blanket to heat these kids? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Listen! I'm not addressing you. I address the European partners, I address those who move the finger in Greece! Greece is in crisis. The Greek people are a poor people but rich in values and humanity! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are therefore not claiming a single euro! We do not claim 1 euro to do our duty, our human duty to those people who die in our yard! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Any of us here had people dying in their yard would claim to give them a plate of food and save them. Away from us, then, those logics that want to cost humanity. And I'm addressing not to you but to those who swing our fingers. Greece teaches humanity, Greece at this critical time, teaches the European partners what the real face of Europe is. This is the real face of Europe, what Mytilini shows! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And not that face on the Hungarian border that some put tripods on refugees carrying babies in order to photograph them! And I want us all to be together in this attitude, in the attitude of national responsibility, against those who, at every opportunity, try to find the way they fight Greece for the way it fights to defend values at a very difficult time for our country, for our country and for our people! But we will overcome this crisis with our heads high and proud, as we deserve as Greeks. For these are the Greek values and not the values of intolerance, xenophobia and racism that are displayed by the extremes of the House, and which, unfortunately, are often adopted by some on your side.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute. Because matters of principle were raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u37	As we move along the lines of the Rules of Procedure, during this debate, a worthwhile debate on a crucial issue, I give the floor for a minute to Mr Kumoucasco and, of course, if any question arises, the Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I request the floor for a minute because the questions of principle have been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u39	I repeat that, while respecting the limits of the Rules of Procedure, this is not permitted. However, I am doing so to complete an extremely interesting conversation. Here, Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u40	I very much appreciate, Mr President, the flexibility of the Bureau, but I think it is necessary, because the questions of principle have been raised here and the questions of principle cannot be left at the moment. The reference to a term that you used and used cannot replace the fact that it is wrong to enter a battle of words instead of asking for results. This was the point of my remark and not in any way adopt any conditions that may be applied to some - but not to this wing of the House - to imply and conceal racist, xenophobic, extremist policies. That's not about that wing. So let's get this over with. And one last. When I asked for compensation and compensation, Prime Minister, I obviously did not talk about financial compensation. You noticed, after all. I spoke about pressure on Turkey, I talked about another logic of action at FRONTEX...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u41	You said about Turkey...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u42	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u43	I have talked about upgrading Turkey's diplomatic and geostrategic strategy through the refugee that it opens funds that were closed in the accession negotiations, and that should be our concern. I talked about such compensation, not financial. Prime Minister, who connected the refugee to economic issues, to the programme that is running, to evaluation and to debt? We or you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u44	Schultz and Juncker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u45	There are members of the Government who cynicism in their public interventions have linked the refugee to what is going to happen to the issue of the programme. So don't blame us. Look for that logic at the benches of your own government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. Mr President, would you like to make a comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u47	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much. [[Mr Alexis Tsipras leaves the Chamber]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, forty-nine students and students and three teachers attending from the 15th Elementary School of New Ionia and also thirteen students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Municipal School of Moschatou. We welcome you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u49	Please, colleagues who have nothing to do with the topical questions, leave the hall or remain silent to begin. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical question to the Prime Minister has been concluded and we continue with the other topical questions scheduled for debate. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the debate on the next topical question, I have the honour to inform the House that the Ministers for Finance and Economy, Development and Tourism have tabled a draft law: 'For the framework for the recapitalisation of credit institutions and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance'. This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I think the sooner we finish, the more time we will be saving for the Members involved in the relevant Standing Committee. I am obliged, however, because I consented yesterday to the Conference of Presidents, to make my position today, because the government's promise was that this draft law would be tabled yesterday afternoon or at the latest in the evening. That is why we agreed to hold the debate today at 3 p.m. at noon in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs. Until now, the bill has not even been distributed. He's down, but he hasn't even been distributed. It's not the President of the House. I want to be clear about this. They have nothing to do with what I say to the President, because the President informs the Conference on the basis of what information he has from the government. However, once again the government is telling the President and the Bureau and so on. That is what I want it to be written in the Minutes, because if we knew about it last night, at least as far as I am concerned, I would not have voted in favour. That's all about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u50	What time will the committee meet?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u51	Instead of the 15 a.m. we decided yesterday, because of what I said to you, it will take place at 7 p.m., as the President said. It was right to take the initiative to take it back two hours, so that Members can read this bill even two hours longer. We are now continuing with the debate on the rest of the topical and urgent questions. The third, with number 35/26-10-2015, top-circuit question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the prospect of the country's development, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fifth question under number 41/26-10-2015, the first question of Attica, Mr. George Mavrotas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning sport discrimination in the European Games in Baku, Azerbaijan and the subsequent benefits for athletes who participated, will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. The sixth question under number 33/26-10-2015, first question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the control of the movements of ships in the port of Patras, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted. The second question, under number 36/26-10-2015, is the second time question by MP Kozani of the New Democracy, George Kasapidis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the national pending of the seven thousand nine hundred and sixty-seven people in the North Continent during the 1940s, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third, with number 40/26-10-2015, topical question of the President of Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the actions and timetable for the inventory and restoration of the damage from the recent bad weather in Attica and the Region in general, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u53	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for half a minute by way of derogation, because in any case we took him...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u54	I would like to say that the cancellation not only of the timely question that I had tabled, but also of the declaration that the ministers were prevented from doing so. I should first like to praise the two present ministers who have come to answer. But self-evident has become something that should be praised. If that's possible! There's no reason, and there's no coma. His office is the Minister. He has no reason. If there is a coma, it should be mentioned and what is the coma, because it is a phenomenon which, unfortunately, has been swelled again, as in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Kegeroglu, please help me. Your objection has been recorded. If I were not in the Bureau, I would say that I would sign it. But since I am presided over, I cannot make this comment. The fourth question under number 51/27-10-2015 will now be discussed in the fourth quarter of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the spread of lumpy skin disease with serious consequences for domestic livestock production. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Markos Bollaris. Mr. Delis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, because my colleague has been out for two minutes, can we move to the next timely question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u57	Why didn't you tell me before I called her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u58	I didn't want to interrupt you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u59	It's worse what's happening now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, my question is ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u61	My colleague, as you know, when the questions are similar, is not exactly the order. You're typically right, practically that's how it always happens. Not now, for a number of years. Therefore, the fourth question under number 50/27-10-2015 will be discussed at the second time by the Member of the Magnesia Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Stelios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the withdrawal of redundancies in the "Visi SA" Industry in the 1st Volos Industrial Area. Mr Katrugalos will reply to his timely question. Mr. Steeriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the "VIS S.A." Industry, based in Volos, is owned by the Phillipou Group. At the end of September, the employer announced the closure of part of the industry, announcing the dismissal of 30 employees working in this section. This section is the papermaking section which produced the raw material for the papermaking industry. So we have eight redundancies in late September and the announcement of another twenty three in the next period. Workers, by decision of the general assembly, decided twenty-four-four repetitive strikes, which have been carried out so far. Let me remind you here, Minister, that recently the employer assured the Ministry, you and the workers, of the complete modernisation of the plant and that is why a bond loan of EUR 12 million was approved. On the contrary, the magnifier proceeded with the closure of part of the factory, literally throwing thirty - one workers on the road. Minister, you ask: What will you do and what measures will you take to withdraw the eight redundancies already made and the other twenty three that have been announced to ensure permanent and stable work for all staff with rights and stable work? I should also like to mention, Minister, that two tripartite meetings have already been held at the Ministry of Labour, which - let me say - have been totally degraded by the leadership of your Ministry, because in the first, after my intervention, the Secretary of your Ministry attended, and in the second, were only two directors of your Ministry. At these two tripartite meetings, the employer was unmoved for redundancies and for the continuation of redundancies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But I would like to say, Minister, that the position of the Ministry was essentially Pontius Pilate. This is because the attitude of the Ministry, namely, finding it among you in ten days' time and finding a commonly accepted solution, is essentially an attitude in favour of this perpetrator and - let me say the word - criminal for the workers of the factory. That is why, Minister, because you also know the minutes of the tripartite meetings in your ministry - we want you to tell us here, because the workers in Volos are also watching us, what exactly measures are you going to take to stop the dismissals from the Philippo Group? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, you refer us to the written text of the question, that we are following the PASOK and the New Democracy policy in this area. Nothing less real than this observation! In a similar question, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, I said that we want to deal with the jungle currently formed in the workplace, fighting fear. And fighting fear means hitting the terrorism that exists, forcing people to work for eight hours and paying for four or forcing them to change their individual contracts with fear of dismissal. I called the channels, the biggest in terms of political power, employers, and told them that covert terrorism of this kind will not be tolerated by the Ministry. A similar policy was followed in the event that you put it in our minds. On Friday, 25 September, a request was made for the association of workers of the union with the request that you have made today. In less than a week, although it was Friday, a meeting took place at the initiative of the APRC, where employers, following the pressure from the APRC, agreed to withdraw all redundancies - all twenty-three - if workers' mobilisations were stopped. An extension was granted for the general meeting. The general meeting rejected this request. We respected the position of the workers, because we are with the forces of work. In the reconciliation pact, in which you were present, the Secretary-General said, not as Pontius Pilate but as clearly taking the position of the workers - I read from the practical reconciliation I will present - the following: "The Ministry has as its main objective the reduction of unemployment and cannot tolerate new redundancies and unemployed people at this time, and in this direction the Ministry will initiate all possible procedures to prevent them." We have done everything the existing responsibilities allow us. The Ministry can't withdraw redundancies. From the outset we have been on the side of the forces of work. And the Communist Party of Greece, which always makes honest criticism, must be able to stand out and deliver Caesar Caesar.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u66	Minister, I'm sorry, but I'll say a folk phrase. Other words to be loved you said here today in the House. On the substance, Minister, will you answer? We have eight redundancies and an announcement of twenty more. First, what are you going to do to stop the redundancies? Secondly, you said here that you are seeking to eliminate fear from workers in factories. How will this be done when you serve an institutionalised anti-legislative framework, which allows employers to carry out rotating work, individual contracts of employment, operational contracts with reductions, availability, repayment? This legislative framework that you have found and which you are continuing to strengthen is exactly what you are serving today with your policy. Also, as far as your prototype is concerned, you said, "We will do anything to withdraw the redundancies." What exactly are you going to do, Minister? You're not answering. Minister, let me say that in the 'VIS S.A.' industry it is shown that the policy implemented by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, like previous governments, is a policy that supports the competitiveness of industrial capitalist groups, in the context of the strategy that you and the European Union have drawn up. This policy, therefore, has completely dismantled employers, who, by using all the anti-corruption laws of the previous, but also those of which you are bringing before us, with the release of redundancies, etc., are breaking workers' rights, depriving them of permanent and stable work, minimising jobs, etc. That, Minister, is because you and your government are serving this system. And leave the words you say, that you are in favour of the forces of work. You're on the side of employers, industrialists, more generally capital! On the one hand it is the world of work, that is, we workers and workers who, with our hands, our minds and our sweat, produce everything and, on the other hand, it is the world of our exploiters, that is, a handful of industrialists, shipowners, parasites, who are told by us, who are fruitful of our work and our suffering. That is why the JRC's proposal today is as timely as it ever has been, but also realistic. Because our political proposal, Minister, takes into account the enormous development of science, of human work, which we give with our work, technology and productivity. And these, if properly exploited, can work to satisfy modern labour, social and people's needs and not the profitability of industrialists as they are today. That is why, Mr Minister, in the position of the jungle you admit that there is today in the workplace and the fierce competition between business groups that send thousands of workers to unemployment, the socialisation of the means of production and the central plan for the benefit of our people is taking full advantage of all the experienced workforce. We are not talking about one of the same things, Minister, but about a radically different way. This road is opened every day, Minister, with our struggles. This way, overthrowing, the working class will choose him sooner or later, because really the suffering you put on her back is huge. In this, then, the way the conflict and the break with capital can really play a leading role. Finally, Minister, because the "Viss S.A." workers and Volos workers are following us in general - I would like to say that your answer not only does not cover the redundant workers, but also the thousands of other workers in the Volos region and throughout Greece, but in substance solves the hands to each employer to do exactly what Philip and Philip do in every industry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, with regard to the reversal of the legislative dismantling of the collective agreements currently in existence because of the five-year neoliberal impact on Labour Law, you know that we are working in the direction of being able to get back - as I have said many times - to European regularity, what constitutes the European social model. But in this case, in terms of redundancies - and in the context of parliamentary scrutiny - you need to check that we exercise 100% or 110% of the possibilities that we had the existing responsibilities of the Minister of Labour. We did that. The RCF over a week examined the complaint and a solution was found to the withdrawal of redundancies, which - and I accept - the labour movement in the workplace, in the company, rejected it. However, with the initial intervention of the APRC, redundancies were withdrawn until the end of the year. Secondly, we made two reconciliation efforts involving the Secretary-General in the first place. Tell us, if you want, what more we could do, since the Ministry cannot withdraw the redundancies in a private business. On the contrary, however, we have drawn up, in the most powerful way that we can, through the APRC, that any illegality will immediately be dealt with by means of the law, with the greatest possible fine that can be imposed. And at meetings, we said very clearly to the employer that we policies that increase unemployment and lead to redundancies will not be tolerated. Anything that you suggest to us within the framework of the responsibilities of the Minister of Labour, we will do it to protect the workers. But I think you have nothing to blame for. I said before that, not just at 100%, but at 110%, we exercised our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u69	We are returning to the discussion of the fourth under No 51/27-10-2015 topical question of the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the spread of lumpy skin disease with serious consequences for domestic livestock production. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in recent years the attacks on domestic livestock, livestock production in general, have been large and inexpensive. While small and medium-sized farmers and, more specifically, ovine and caprine animals, have not recovered from the blow of bluetongue disease that hit their ovine and caprine animals in 2014, a new zoonosis makes its appearance, follicular bovine dermatitis. And she makes her appearance in northern Greece, starting with Evros, expanding to eastern Macedonia and Thrace. In fact, we have recently had cases in Central Macedonia, in particular in Halkidiki. At the same time, veterinary services, those responsible for dealing with these issues, are under-represented. In fact, it can be said that they are literally declining from the necessary scientific administrative and auxiliary staff. And to say here that this minimum staff of these veterinary services is trying self-sufficiently to fulfil their duties. But the needs are enormous. Because of this anti-agricultural policy of your Government, which is also a follow-up to the previous ones, it is always on the table and the strategy of the European Union that small- and medium-sized sheep and goat farmers are being driven out. And they are literally indignant, as they face very serious problems with their income and, of course, the general lack of liquidity. It is characteristic that their allowances, Mr Minister, have been delayed for almost a year. So we ask you: What are you going to do to prevent and deal with diseases, without any burden - no burden - of small and medium-sized farmers? What will you do to take all necessary steps to prevent the new zoonosis, follicular dermatitis? What are you going to do for the immediate administration of veterinary services with the permanent staff of the geotechnics necessary to meet the needs of poor farmers? And, of course, what will you do to cover all the losses suffered by poor farmers in livestock and incomes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the question. It is quite clear that livestock farming, the primary sector of production in the country, is a sector that needs immediate, daily support, because the recovery of the primary sector depends on the recovery of the country's real economy. It's the first, the important, the critical sample. You rightly referred to the fact that in recent years, not two diseases, but three zoonoses have passed Evros and entered the country. This in itself is a major policy issue, for which the government has first of all initiative in synergies with the neighbour and then by raising the issue in the European Union, because at the moment the country in question is being called upon to pay compensation - and it must give them - such as that which will lead to the restoration of the livestock of all the regions affected. I can assure you, however, that the problem is not due to the negligence of the veterinary services. The fact that it is not due to the negligence of veterinary services has shown this to be a direct, timely labelling of the animals affected and the mobilisation made with the surveillance zones, with the protection zones, with the vaccinations, with the mobilisation to bring the vaccines produced in South Africa alone. This disease does not exist in Europe. The protocol observed by the Ministry's services in cooperation initially with the services of the region of Eastern Macedonia and now Central Macedonia is the protocol followed by the European Union by instructions from the European Union and is equivalent to that of blessing. There's no cure. There has been vaccination since the problem arises and then we have massacres. We have a very large number of cattle that have been killed to stop the extension. However, I would like to assure you that to date, in eastern Macedonia and Thrace, some forty-five thousand vaccinations have been carried out. There's another thirty thousand missing. And we have vaccinations now in central Macedonia. I would like to tell you that that is why the services - rightly so, and you mentioned it - work overnight both in the Ministry and in the region. And there's private assistance, there's military assistance. Mr President, I shall conclude in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u73	Before I give the floor to my colleague, I would like to make the following statement: MP Nikos Dendias and MP Olga Kefaloyannis request a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u74	The House approved the requested permits. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u75	Of course, the problem is not due to the negligence of the services, and we did not say so either. We have said exactly the opposite that these services, although subordinated, give self-determination to the struggle and make an effort to protect domestic livestock production. I listened carefully, Minister, at the time you were talking, but I did not hear you talking about specific issues that we raised. No care, for example, for poor farmers to be fully covered and unnecessarily charged in relation to vaccines, insect repellents and animal feed which come into isolation after such cases of zoonoses. Here, let us say that, in relation to bluetongue, you have chosen vaccination before, and the small farmers have paid this from their pockets, Minister, which is empty and, of course, you are getting more and more empty in your policy. We have heard nothing about the compensation these poor, small and medium-sized farmers had to pay for the loss of their milk production due to the loss of their livestock. What are you really going to do about rehab? We want specific, clean words on the restoration of livestock depopulated by zoonoses, which is not one or two. We must say here that the policy of your own government and the previous ones is literally being smashed by taxation on small and medium-sized farmers. What can we say here? Should we mention what will be discussed these days in relation to the exemption, rather than the increase in taxes on fuel, the taxation that goes from 13% to 26% from the first euro on all incomes, the more than triple the tax advance that will go to 100%, the tripling of the OGA's contribution? These are all decisions that break the lives of especially small and medium-sized farmers. One answer - and I will put it in the Minutes - in your policy and in what you said to us a moment ago. It is a communication made by the Panhellenic Association of National Veterinary Officers a little earlier, which mentions very typically the problems these farmers have in northern Greece and the fact that they are not solved by political visits and wishes. You are accused of criminal negligence, that despite warnings and constant information, the appropriate measures were not taken to prevent this zoonoses from entering Greece. Of course, this Pan-Hellenic Association of Public Officials considers the need for permanent staff to be recruited to veterinarians, as we have said, to cover the major gaps that exist in areas such as Evros. As regards the compensation of farmers, these should be paid directly and at real prices for animals killed. You know, the problem with livestock farming is that as much as it affects what is called the 'food dependency' of our country on foreign products. In conclusion, I would like to say that this policy does not take on much of your word. We already have coordination between farmers, farmers and small and medium-sized farmers for a struggle and a joint action with those who face the same policy. We're talking about employees. We're talking about professionals. We're talking about youth. The first stage of this struggle will of course be the 12th of November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u76	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u77	I understand that when someone 'opens' and leaves the subject which is being discussed in the very critical little time of the question, it means that there is not much reason to focus. I would point out, therefore, once again that follicular skin disease is an exotic disease, which has been in Europe for the first time. There was a question of intercept in Turkey. The disease went through the country. There are issues that the Ministry is currently running, such as the spray tunnel in Evros at both gates of entry, strengthening the veterinary service with ten veterinarians in Evros, because, as I said before, it is the third zoonosis within a period of very few years that has passed Evros. The problem we have been discussing here before is that of zoonoses. Do not be easy to blame the government when this zoonosis has passed all over Africa, the entire Middle East, Turkey and now passed Evros. What can the government do? You should be aware that this issue and the Ministry started proceedings as of August 2014, with joint meetings between both Turkey and Bulgaria and Greece. There are issues. Because in Evros there is grazing in Delta, in estuary, in a place with rich vegetation, which is offered for grazing, but is also exposed because it is a wetland. If you see the map of disease movement, you will see that it moves seaside and where we have wetlands, which means that there was an insect issue. I want to tell you that the characteristics of the transmission of the disease have been surprised. They have found the services and the European Union because they have given other features. For the Ministry, therefore, apart from the fact that we have strengthened the joint ministerial decision on compensation for farmers and the restoration of livestock by 3 million, I told you that this matter is at the level of the European Union. Why, it is not possible that Evros or the eastern side of the country at all times suffer the huge consequences and these consequences should be called upon to pay them and to take them on board only. As far as vaccines are concerned, there was a question, because when the first direct vaccination was required, we had capital control. Indeed, there was a contribution by individuals to order the vaccines, but all of them would be returned by the Ministry to all those who, whether cooperatives or breeders, contributed to the treatment of the first vaccines. The Ministry has then tendered and is normally commissioned from South Africa to deal with all vaccines. And in view of the fact that, in order to be able to deal properly, these vaccines must be repeated next year. In conclusion, I tell you that there is an issue that controls the Ministry and there are synergies with the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace for the sprays, to see the effectiveness of the fight. Because it turns out that the disease is transmitted primarily by insects. In this context, therefore, the farmers in Evros know themselves very well from the interventions of the services and from the continuous visits of the veterinarians and the synergies which existed before and after the disease occurred that the Ministry did what it should. I should like to point out that the original European Union milk directives, after strict compliance with the protocol, have been lifted - the farmers who are milk producers are very well aware of this - are well aware of the possibility of moving. The protocol was fully adhered to in order to preserve the highest possible proportion of livestock. In conclusion, I am focusing on the fact that livestock farming in Evros, livestock farming in Thrace, is synonymous with the presence there of the people, the locusts in these areas, is synonymous with development, is synonymous with the primary sector and that is why there is a working, daily effort to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u78	Before I give the floor to my colleague, Mr Karayannides, to announce to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Municipal School of Melissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Subsequently under number 46/27-10-2015, the second time question of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP Mr Christos Karagiannides, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the operation of the management bodies of protected areas. Here, Mr Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the management bodies of protected areas are a painful story. Since 2007, it has been the only shape of administration and management of protected areas and not all regions in the country but around 30%. We have two originals in this case. One originality is that these management bodies, even today and until 31 December of the end of the programme, are financed by European money. And that is a global originality, that is to say, one country does not give a single euro for the protected areas. It comes from the past, of course, not a question of the current government, but it also shows a political will which the previous governments have had not to deal with the protected areas at all. The second world originality is that workers, scientific staff in these management bodies, are fixed-term workers. Eight years of work and they are fixed-term workers. Perhaps because the previous governments have never been willing to have a permanent scientific staff who will also have the expertise and experience for these management bodies to function. And yet we come to today. On 31 December this programme expires, and on 31 December European funding will be stopped. I know that in the bill now being discussed in the co-legislative committees there is a specific article, which gives an extension for the operation of management bodies until 31-12-2016. This is not enough, however, because the costs of these management bodies, which are about 8.5 million, have not been written and they are inappropriate payroll costs. And if we add operational costs to about 10 million. And we need to know what is going to happen with this. I should also like to say that in the past, in 2014, there was a common place, unanimously agreed on how these management bodies will function following a national dialogue that the former government has done too late. And we need to know what will happen with this bill of mergers and abolitions of management bodies, which was not only non-functional - and that is why it has never been true - but also gave no prospect to management bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u80	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u81	Mr Colleagues, you raise a hot issue. Greece, a country where its natural capital is major for its economic development, is indeed the only country in which even a euro was never given for this natural capital. We are perhaps a country with the highest biodiversity in the European Union and we did not give a single euro for this biodiversity. And I remind you that Commissioner Velasco, who said that the protection of biodiversity is not a cost, is an investment. And this saying should be observed in Greece. It has never been observed unfortunately. We really are a country that has the originality of having twenty-eight bodies, which do not cover 30% of the protected areas, and we have done nothing only to support them, but at least to equip them. Indeed, these people were, intermittently, even with huge delays, paid by the NSRF. Many times they were found and without payment or late or even some were forced to leave because they could not be paid and some subsidies later came. We will certainly change this regime, we are committed. We are in a dialogue, we will now immediately - and I have announced in the programming - the new draft law for the institutions, which has the following pillars that need to be changed: first of all we will have the management of all Greece and not only of selected areas, and secondly, if there is a placement will take place on scientific criteria and not on economic criteria to bring together Karpathos with Samarias, which is not based anywhere, it is in the air of this type of mergers. But most importantly, the bodies will have power in terms of monitoring and certification of infringements that they currently have no jurisdiction. And of course it is not the protectionist object, which can be the flora or fauna, by an administrative board of mayors, local bodies, which is not done anywhere in the world. To finish with the flame. We have written and already approved the Green Fund 5 million, not because we want to say that it will be less money this year, but because I think that soon it will be a solution. Of course, if it is not solved, we will also write down the rest, which we know about. At the moment, however, we have registered 5 million, because we believe that in the first half of the year this history of operators will have ended, that is, a temporary disbursement. I won't get tired anymore. I will speak in my speech and our strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u82	Mr Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u83	We have, myself personally, but the workers, as you said before, one fear of registering only 5 million. You know that these workers have been miserable in the past few years and have been unpaid for seven months, and many have left for that reason, as you have said. We also need to see a target in the medium to long term. Since you mentioned there would be a bill, we expect to see it. But at the moment the three hundred eighty workers have acquired huge experience and know-how, are tied to the local communities and I think they are the only supporters and protectors of the environment that have been able to study and manage. On the other hand, you should, of course, tell us whether this unanimous conclusion of the national dialogue will be accepted in its entirety, in part or in part from the outset, so that people will also know what will happen. As you say that the mergers that have taken place did not actually respond, but it was only a piece of paper, we should know. What about the mergers? Also, the irreversible expenditure should indeed be included in the budget, because the irreversible expenditure has been said to you to be 8.5 million. There is one attempt to provide information centres for these management bodies, i.e. in the prefectures to which management bodies refer. A further effort should also be made. I will give you a typical example from the body I know, which is in Drama Prefecture, the Rodopi Mountain Management Agency. It is with ten staff and has a budget of about 900,000 euros. The corresponding budget of the Harts National Park, on 1/10 of its land, has about fifty workers and 10 million budgets. Instead of looking for hydrocarbons in the Aegean Sea, instead of looking for gold in Skouria, instead of destroying Evros, also with gold, we have a wealth that we can in environmental terms and with protections and specific security barriers to exploit and develop and protect. In closing, so that I do not abuse time, because we all have to go to the relevant committees, we must see - perhaps it seems a little unrelated - and that there is a need for a presidential decree on logging. After having given two extensions, the CYC can no longer be extended third time and is in danger of the country staying without logging and the logging without work. By the end of the year there must also be a presidential decree responding to the need and planning of logging for the coming years, which does not take too long.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u84	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u85	This directive is clear, at least for the bodies, the protected areas - specific environmental studies are pending, and in the latter we could certainly also have matters of logging. Because most of the areas are NATURA regions in Greece, and we are the only country perhaps in Europe where our logging has been truly sustainable for a hundred years and we do not do this massive logging that other countries do. Unfortunately, our loggers do not even have the certification that other countries have, so that this can add value to their produce, which is done elsewhere. And there we are still behind, and of course there are no management plans, which are the next stage. All this, apparently, needs very serious people and not just some scholars. You are quite right that operators must now acquire another value. I say that I am optimistic and you will not see it, not because we will cut costs - we are vertical, we have discussed it with the Minister, and we have written the five, because we believe that this will be a final solution, these people will enter other procedures, and that is the view of the government, that this matter should be closed this year - but also because the institutions in Greece do not have an economic activity as they should. And for this economic activity - and rightly so - amateurs cannot suffer the risk of the ILO entering at some point and of a tax negligence, which they do not know because they are not entrepreneurs, all of a sudden they are accountable. There should be, of course, at the Ministry - and this will be launched - central service according to the models of archaeology, which, as in museums are sold and commercial activity is carried out, so to operators and information centres there will be commercial activities, T-shirts, newsletters, leaflets, CDs, which will be sold to visitors and tickets, of course, and those that will be used to go directly to the agency rather than to an indefinite 'green' fund. These are our thoughts. You know very well that we will always, in direct dialogue with the institutions, which we consider to be valuable and never come to surprise. So don't worry at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u86	We are entering the debate of the last time question today. It is the first with number 47/27-10-2015 topical question of the second-round question of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning measures to protect the Hymettos. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. The sensitivity of the Ministry to the ecosystem and, more generally, to the environment and your own personal sensitivity to the Hymitos is known. We are now coming to ask a question about the protection of the Hymitte, a yearly request for the protection of which many citizens' movements, municipal movements, active citizens have fought and we must say that it is at a point better than the other mountainous volumes of Attica. He is indeed a member of the NATURA 2000 network. It is an important Mediterranean ecosystem of great importance, essentially for its biodiversity and for the species of fauna and flora it hosts. In addition to this, however, it is an important factor, especially in terms of the state and quality of the atmosphere in Attica at this time, with the problems and issues of climate change, which I believe will be given the opportunity some other time, be it in committees or here with timely questions, to discuss this issue as well in the light of the Paris World Conference on Climate Change at the beginning of December. Coming now to Hymittos, I would say that a large part of Hymittos, as well as you, of course, around the twenty thousand acres, is very important, because it is a permanent wildlife shelter and this is very important, while at least seven types of natural habitats of Community interest have been recognized to the Hymittos. It has been recorded - and the Ornithological has important elements in this regard - its ornithological fauna, where basically 1/4 of all species recorded in our country and many of them are protected and included in the wild birds directive and in the Berne Convention. Minister, with the n.e.c. 187/2011, a stricter regime was introduced and welcomed essentially for the protection of Hymettos, recognising that the previous presidential decree of 1978 was not able to recognise the threats that he accepted and accepts the mountainous volume of Hymittos. Here in the new n.e.c. 187/2011, I would like to add something that is very important, the increase in the first absolute protection zone around 100 thousand acres. However, a number of Hymettian municipalities - because we know that many municipalities surround the mountainous volume of Hymettus - a number of different interests and institutions have appealed to the Council of State, insulting this example. 187/2011, due to the lack of a Strategic Environmental Impact Study, the well-known SPC. That is why this issue has also come to the European Parliament, where, under Union law, environmental issues need to be incorporated in the preparation and adoption of plans and programmes, with a view to promoting sustainable development in all three dimensions, social, environmental and economic. After the Court of Justice of the European Union asked questions from the Court of Justice from the Court of Justice of the European Union that the drafting of the Presidential Decree should have taken precedence over the drafting of the TBR, and that will, of course, lead to the annulment of the Presidential Decree in the course of next year, that is to say immediately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to ask you, Minister, how you will deal with the question of Hymettos as a State, if the process of drafting a SPC, a Strategic Environmental Impact Study, starts with what you are preparing for the adoption of a new Presidential Decree with more protectionist terms, or if you are thinking of calling Hymettos as a National Park by means of a Presidential Decree, on the basis of the provisions of the n. Regulation (EEC) No 1650/1986. Also, until the presidential decree is taken, and whatever action you are preparing, what are you thinking of doing as a ministry? Thank you very much, Mr President, for the tolerance you have shown. Please use the time I used extra, remove him from my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kafantaris, one thing is certain that the homeless people of Hymitus should not be pleased. And they won't rejoice, because Hymittos won't stay even a second uncovered by protection. First of all, because I have received many such questions, the presidential decree is in force at the moment. It is currently in force and will be in force until the Council of State has referred it back on account of the judgment of the European Court of Justice. So at the moment there is nothing different from what was there a week ago or a month ago, before the European Court of Justice ruling. I say this - you know it, I imagine - so the citizens can hear it too. The second is that in 2015 the TPA notice will be completed, so the TPA will soon be in our hands, and I hope that we will have it before the Council of State meets, so there will be no object of the presidential decree in this respect. But even in the unfavourable case where the S.H.E. Meeting before the Strategic Environmental Impact Study, you know that the Ministry has the discretion for the NATURA regions and until there is a new presidential decree, to suspend all the building activities, which has already been done in other areas. Finally, as you quite rightly said, Himittos belongs to the NATURA regions, so it is part of the category of areas for which specific environmental studies will be carried out and there is a specific fund for Greece in the new NATURA, and in these areas there will also be a specific environmental study, which is much stricter than a simple strategic environmental impact study and, of course, the presidential decree of NATURA now, which will be clearly more stringent after the specific environmental study, and of course the management plans of the NATURA regions. So the Hymitus, after this process, will be much more fortified than he was fortified by this presidential decree. And you know very well that our government is endless. We will not allow anyone to destroy our natural wealth and our cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u90	Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u91	Clearly, Minister, the sensitivity of the Ministry exists - we know that - on many issues of environmental protection. However, from what you have answered, I am holding that the new TEMPUS is not yet under way. You told us it would just start. On the other hand, the fact that the President-in-Office is currently in force is clearly aware of this, but in a few months' time, if things do not go ahead on the part of the Ministry, will no longer be the case. I would like to say on this point and present the risk to the protection of the Hyatt. I would like to present a memorandum of twenty-seven bodies to the S.H.E., the municipalities and the state services. I'm presenting it here for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Charula (Haras) Kafantaris, presents the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to ask some questions. In particular, are you currently taking any steps with regard to the suspension of building permits in the Hypothetian protection zones, suspension of approval and implementation of other projects? Have these started? You're thinking of applying the n. 1650/1986 - as we know - that characterizes him as a National Park? And here I would like to put some other things that concern the Hypothet, of course. Many areas, characterised as forests or forest areas and watercourses, especially on the south-eastern side of Hymittos and also hilly areas south to the sea, remain out of protection limits even though they are ecologically continuous with areas already joining the protection limits. Reintroduction of protective measures is an opportunity to become a protectionist, as they are areas that are subject to considerable housing pressure. In addition, an enlarged zone II would strengthen the protection of Hymettos by creating an essential regional area in which limited uses are permitted. Are there any thoughts about such improvements? There is also a question and it is being examined - then what I said before in relation to v. 1650/1986 - further adoption of protection measures such as extended zone I, extended zone II, which I said before, characterise more specific signs or characteristics as protected natural formations or protected landscapes, based on n. Regulation (EEC) No 1650/1986; There is reason to consider becoming an entity managing the Hypothet based on the provisions of the Law. 2742/1999? Of course, what do you think about compliance with the 2005 Council decisions on high-voltage centres within the Hymatus protection zones? What about the delimitation of the antenna forest in the Hymitus? What do you think about arbitrary buildings and, more generally, how the Ministry perceives them and how they are to be integrated into any presidential decree or measure or law or application is considered from now on to do, of course only with the protection of the Hypothet? But here I would like to put another issue, which is dealt with by Hymitos - I say it because I have asked a question from the previous term of the House and I have not received an answer - and it is about the operation of the cemetery. Especially at the moment, within the air base of Glyfada, there is actually going to be a cemetery in a protected area of Hymettos. I think these are issues which we need to see. We'll wait for the answers and actions of the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. To start the Strategic Environmental Impact Study, it must be announced. And this notice will take place immediately. That's what I said before. There is no delay, but it cannot be started, because it is obviously a prerequisite for someone to become - even in the short term - a competition. I do not know exactly what the cost of the study is at the moment, but, depending on the level, the procedures must obviously be observed. I said before and I stress that it has the ability of the Ministry not to leave the Hymitus a second uncovered. Right now he's already covered. There is no need to suspend licences, because the Presidential Decree already provides for such bans. This President-in-Office decree was very good - we all know it - and that is why he has come across so many pressures from a mountain that is under pressure. From that point on, whether to become a different independent body in the Hypothet, this will depend on the overall legislation on protected areas. We will see how the whole of Greece will be covered and how many institutions need to be covered. It is, as I said, a subject that will be judged on scientific criteria rather than on financial criteria. We never play with the wealth of our country, as it had been done - and I said to the previous timely question - when Karpathos was merged with Samarias. These are not serious things to talk about here, at least as scientists. As far as protection for forest law is concerned, forest legislation is currently in force in the Highlands. We all know that. What is missing is forest maps, a very painful story, which, with a bill that is currently coming to Parliament, will be accelerated and finalized. Because as long as we do not have the forest maps, you know and I know that the pressures will continue and the trespassers will always find ways - they are very inventive, unfortunately - to trample public wealth. I'm not ready to answer, I confess. I don't have a suggestion from the relevant services yet. Of course, when the special environmental studies are launched for all NATURA, we will see whether Hymitos will become a national park or a regional park. I admit that this is something worth talking about. It is also a very important issue for other regions of Greece. So, in this part of your timely question, I reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Before we close the sitting, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report of Monday, 2 November 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 45-27-10-2015 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Helen Stamatakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the delays of the tram projects in Piraeus. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 38/26-10-2015 topical question by MP B' Athens, New Democracy, Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Finance, regarding the payment of VAT 23% from private clinics and care units of the elderly. 3. The question by No 42/26-10-2015 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the restoration of damages and the payment of compensation to those affected by the natural disaster on 21-10-2015 to Elias Law. 4. The question by No 52/27-10-2015 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning immediate measures to relieve the floods affected by the floods of Attica. 5. The question asked by MP Larisa of Potamio Mr Konstantinos Barriota to the Minister of Health, on the final solution to the problem of MSY nurses. 6. The Question No 34/26-10-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the voluntary disclosure by Greek citizens of their statements abroad. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy about the need for an immediate removal of the R/C-O/G ship "MYTILINE" from the port of Carlovas Samos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 39/26-10-2015, a topical question by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Style, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the exclusion of technological educational institutions from the Ministry's invitation to participate in the seminar entitled "Training of teachers for the development and implementation of digital technologies in the teaching act". 3. The Question No 49-27-10-2015 by MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the reduction in cotton production due to intense rainfall in all the prefectures of Thessaly. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-30-S1-commons.u95	With the consent of the House at 12.26 hours the sitting is closed.
