ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of State: “Confidentiality of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymity Company and an amendment to article 48 of the Law. 2190/1920 and other provisions’. Mr Ilias Ioannides has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u2	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Members are very pleased that two years after the ERT's 'black', a 'black' matching with the black of the memorandum choices, a 'black' which the tripartite government limited to two-partisan with the withdrawal of DMAR, we are discussing its reopening bill. The attitude of our party is consistent with the promise we made to the ERT workers and the Greek people, a attitude of consistency at political cost and communication - to remind them - from our abstention for two years from the NERIT scheme. Our decision, in particular, vindicates the struggles which have been taking place for two years to support the live ERT, even on the Internet with great difficulties, with a statement of soul, selflessness by workers and fellow citizens. The satisfaction is even greater because the 'black' leaves the ERT and sits on the faces of the inspiring and implementation of this unprecedented coup, in our view. This race was won because it was given. They say "lost races are the ones not given". Proved that. And I'm glad that for substantial and symbolic reasons, I guess, SYRIZA's special employer is the Claus Sunday. In my town, Kavala, we have two reasons why the black in the ERT will never forget it. It was the occasion for the first and only night on the streets of the city by a multitude of protesting citizens. The second reason is the cynical confession - a statement by the Secretary of the Prefecture of New Democracy on a local channel, which, of course, made the round of the internet and the central media, that we closed the ERT because it did not support the government's work. So simple, but also so real, so cynical. The reopening of ERT gives us all responsibilities and all for a new ERT pluralist, democratic, open to the new, innovation, the different. We must prove in practice that the public, which has been denounced for decades now, which has been communized, which has become spoiled governments, parties and persons, can and must have a positive sign, can and must serve its citizens, society and its needs. Beyond our historic decision to reopen the ERT, we are burdened with how it works. We have learned from the previous ones that it must not work. For the first time, we are opening a different path to information, entertainment and artistic expression. The sadness of our opponents lies in the fact that a break will be created in the systemic media, their misunderstanding, their manipulation and their black propaganda. The information our people receive from the systemic media has features of distortion, manipulation, misinformation and terror. Of course he turns his back on them, but that's not enough. It is now necessary to provide an instrument, such as what this House is deciding today, which will put information, information and entertainment in their real dimensions. Finally, from somewhere we can hear - and our people all - that Varoufakis has not had any wood from his European interlocutors, that the government is not stealing the money of the OTAs, the money of the insurance funds, that Lafazanis has not bowed to Miller, that the Russian pipeline will bring gas and not the Third World War. Because that's what we hear every afternoon and every night in the channels. With this black propaganda, with the montaziers, our society is being bombed. And I'm sorry for our defense, but let us have a channel differently. There will also be a channel of information, not of misinformation, which will present the news, the facts, the culture, the entertainment and culture. Finally, I should like to refer to two persons from the previous government, who have been associated with the 'black' in the ERT, Mr Kedicoglou and Mrs Vulture who is now missing. Let them take care - young people are even strong enough to live for many years - to do something important, something special, even heroic, to forget the reason why everyone will remember them. They connected their faces to the "black" at the ERT. Mr. Kedicoglou must try harder. It is not enough to play publicly - he did it the day before - that what he did increased his votes by 70%, while his party was oppressed. Ms. Vuldesis has recently made an effort to stay in history, with her historicly important statement on the health papers that will disappear if SYRIZA governs. It wants another effort to forget what they have done and their contribution to the ERT's 'black'. We would like to tell her not to worry. He is very sympathetic to us, we will make sure that she does not miss anything, that nothing is missing from the Greek people with our Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u3	Thank you very much, because you didn't just get over it, but you saved us time. Listen, please, a proposal. Parliamentary representatives should normally be here, but I prefer to make the proposal to you, colleagues. I am afraid that, because some ministers will necessarily speak because of tabling a late amendment, and because the parliamentary representatives have not spoken, as I said to you, if we were to keep the time, we would be done after 0: 00. To speak as much as possible and if possible all my fellow Members, perhaps instead of eight minutes, from one point to another and then go to six minutes? You won't answer me now. I'll bring this back before I get off the seat. Think about it and I'll see you around. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the 1970s the leader of the Italian Left Enrico Berlingwer said: "He who owns and controls information and information will have full economic, political and cultural authority. Harold Laswell repeated this a while ago: "He who controls the information is sure to control the public order fully." While Allen Ginsberg said: "He who controls the media and the image fully controls culture." In today's political and socio-economic conditions, we could say that the right to uninterrupted and free information and information is a human right. In Campbell's view, human rights can stand even above national law. Human rights you know they're in DNA, at the core of our thoughts and politics. We are Left, for which Kastoriadis had said that we are not just a party, but a way of thinking. These are historical locations that were prophetic, despite the fact that in political philosophy and thought nothing is a product of divination and prophecy, but prediction based on specific political, social data, analysed scientifically and dialectically. With regard to the discussion of this bill, it is first of all a question of placing all the political forces on its basic principle, which provides for the establishment of a public service, in its essential and functional concept, as defined and analysed in the rapporteur's report and as explicitly provided for in Article 15 of the Constitution, given its explicit reference to the social mission of radio and television. The same article of the Constitution explicitly states that the public service broadcasting service is provided uninterruptedly, on the basis of the principle of continuity of the public services, just as the minority of the CoR in the famous 1901 decision in 2014, according to which the constitutional legislature establishes a fundamental for the functioning of this democratic public service. And the question arises uncertainly: do we want a public service broadcaster, in the sense of public service, as is explicitly provided for in Article 15 of the Constitution and sufficiently analysed in the report? Do you agree or not with the legal position of the 12 advisors of the State, which considers that ‘in accordance with the provision of Article 15 of the Constitution, the constitutional legislature shall establish a fundamental for the functioning of this democratic culture of public service, public service broadcasting, regardless of or at the same time as private broadcasters’. It continues with the CoR: "The aim of this service, as is clear from the very letter of the provision, in principle the provision of reliable and valid information to society as a whole, the information of citizens in all parts of the Greek territory in an objective, pluralistic manner and on the basis of the principles of parity and respect, as well as the movement of all ideas and views developed in a pluralist democratic state". In this respect, therefore, the question, whether or not we want a broadcaster as a public service, must be answered by all the political forces. We respond to this bill. All other political forces here must not turn through the engagement - as they are asking the basic questions raised by our ministers, namely those which claim to be subject to the jewels of the lenders - but which must be placed directly and substantially. Do you want a public service broadcaster or not? The barbaric closure of ERT over a night and the persecution of two and a half thousands of its workers on the pretext of the suffering of the past, in dictating some who demanded redundancies in the wider public sector, is a blow to democracy, while actually serving private interests and strengthening the conflict. The purpose of this bill is to abolish this new order of things in the broadcasting field, which was a methodically mutilating the information of Greek citizens and a scandalous favor for certain private interests. With this bill, ERT opens, "returns to our hearts", as written yesterday in a newspaper. Workers are coming back. It aims to become a public body that will function for the real fulfillment, which is the information, education and entertainment of the Greek people. It seeks that ERT is indeed independent of any other public or private body, ensuring pluralism, independent information, high quality content, enabling young creators and artists to promote their work and ideas. There was a conversation about the question of the existence of a supervisory board. That is what I have heard today that Article 15 of the Constitution stipulates, and from its interpretation and theory it is unanimously accepted that an obligation to anticipate and have a supervisory board does not exist. In other words, from a political point of view, both in the pre-black ERT and in the NERIT scheme, there was a supervisory board. Has his existence ensured the realisation of the constitutional requirement for objective and equal transmission of information and news? Has his existence ensured pluralism, independent information, high quality content, democratic structure, perception and function? Of course not. Therefore, the criticism of the non-provision of a supervisory board does not have any legal basis and at the end of the day - everything is judged and stems from the existence of a political will to establish a broadcaster as a public service. It alone defines the reality or not all of the above. Today he asks whether or not there is a political will to create a multi-speaking and truly independent public television broadcaster? We respond that there is clearly and clearly. This is demonstrated by all the provisions of this draft law. It demonstrates that ERT will have all the technical means available for its emissions, in analog, digital, satellite and others, throughout Greece, but also to the Greek-democratic world. ERT will also digitally possess, maintain and provide the public with the audiovisual record of public broadcasting. It proves by regulation that ERT's resources will come from the reward fee, from which, among other things, those who have joined PPC's social invoice will be exempted. The composition of the ERT Board, which will be seven, of which the two members will be the employees' representatives and the ERT Board will be appointed by the Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency. What other valid and stronger legal basis? It demonstrates that the membership of the ERT Board is incompatible with another public office or post in the wider public sector or with the administration of trade unions. It demonstrates that a social audit of ERT has been instituted for the first time with the compulsory establishment of the Social Control Councils by region. Finally, it demonstrates the fact that the accountability of Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency and the PSE takes place in the first quarter of each calendar year. And we repeat that all of this presupposes political will, which now exists, while the workers in ERT and Greek society, will always be vigilant and collectively controlled on their implementation. The bill returns, as was written earlier, the ERT's 'case' to the public sphere and the legal framework for its reopening is democratically decided. But the 'ERT' case symbolises - and this should not be forgotten - the collapse of the institutions which are called upon to guarantee minimum human rights in the exercise of their citizenship. In Greece, the collapse occurred in a violent and rapid way, and in the case of ERT, anti-democratic ethical positions and aversion to pluralism, criticism and what is not closely controlled by private and political interests. This collapse seeks to stop and reverse this bill. Finally, it is of paramount importance that the question of the need to significantly increase the share of ERT in the advertising market to reach the average of the public broadcasters of the Member States of the European Union, which, of course, all the States, without exception, had and had strong state broadcasters. In the above terms, the Greek state can ensure and believe that there can be an ERT independent, undefeased, multi-collaborative, while its journalists can display without dependencies through unequivocal and dynamic modern journalism... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. ...to ensure quality broadcasting and digital production. Our democracy needs it, because no one must forget that our fellow citizens have, in an unprecedented way, supported the journalists of the independent ERT Open, not so much in need of the old ERT - take note of it - but from faith in democracy. For us SYRIZA Members, what Pablo Neruda said is true: "All paths lead to the same goal, to express to everyone what we really are." And we in SYRIZA will tell who we are, we are fanatically committed to democracy and the rights of citizens. We are what Isocrates said "the whole city of the city is like the mayor". The public political morale that we are doing is what will be the political morale of the rulers. It was this faith in democracy and rights that fought the "black", the "black" which constituted an intrigue of democracy, culture and information. And, finally, I tell you that the current bill with society and journalists is trying to eradicate, to do what Heraklion said, which I have reiterated in the penitentiary bill, that "the people must, more than the fire, erase the hurricane." Mr President, I would like to present to the Minutes a decision by all the Presidents of the Bar Associations, signed by the then President - a representative of the New Democracy, Mr Adamopoulos, and a decision adopted - has not dried the ink yet - the decision of the Court of First Instance of Athens, which confirmed the minority of the Council of State. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u5	Thank you. Mr. Apostle Karastasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, almost two years after the surpriseing appearance of 'black' on the screens of our television, the government is bringing to Parliament a bill that removes the anomaly and restores the obvious and self-evident, laying the rules for the creation of a public broadcaster. What suddenly happened in the summer of 2013? ERT was closed with a sudden government decision. Legislative act was adopted, which was never ratified by Parliament. The then government majority was broken up by the withdrawal of the dissident DIMAR from the government's structure. The workers at the ERT were slandered. Most of them were wiped out. The country stayed a summer without state television. The information and entertainment of the people stayed prey on private channels, objects to manipulate in the direction of interests, which in fact represent at a time crucial to the country's very existence. Subsequently, a portion of the ex-bad, lazy, party "logue", etc. The former ERT employees were asked to serve and run the NERIT project, which with tymphs and crowns on independence, economics, credibility, etc. Installed in our daily life from autumn 2013. The result of the project we are all experiencing for two years now: a large number of road workers, in the middle of a crisis, at the request of the troika, the impartiality and credibility of the body empty letter, the valuable archive of the ERT untapped, most radio stations closed, the digital channels of the former ERT disappeared. With whatever criteria you may see, either as a free market operation or as an ECEI, the project in the worst case failed, and at best Manolios changed and put it in a better position - more closely - but - 'the clothes of the other'. All previous speakers, other than New Democracy's speakers, accepted that public television initially and then NERIT was a product of unlawful energy and that they failed to fulfil the purpose for which they were created. On the contrary, the New Democracy defended their argument about the need to close the ERT, arguing as a basic argument the number of workers' strikes in the year 2011-2013 and hence the days of information lost, without, of course, bothering to mention the reasons for the strikes, i.e. the violation of labour rights, which still existed then and the conduct of a private channel manager - which the Minister showed at the time - towards the workers. It is a behaviour that the New Democracy rapporteur has attempted to arouse to the current Minister, seeking an unfounded trial of intent. It is clear, then, that beyond a proclaimed position, it was the government's duty to create the bill under discussion and bring it to the House for discussion. Therefore, in my opinion on the bill, I can only say 'in favour' of his vote. This draft law primarily restores a great injustice, which was done to the detriment of the workers of the former ERT, without an assessment, without warning, without any obvious cause for their dismissal. And this, not counting on their democracies from official lips. Remember the statements made by the then government representative. Dismissed officials who had indefinite contracts are re-entered while the staff of NERIT. Beyond labour, it is important that the country acquires again a public broadcasting body under state control, as is the case in most and larger European countries, which was considered important by the previous government when it took the decision to close the ERT. It is also important that all relevant directives and regulations of the European Union for the operation of broadcasters are incorporated in this bill. Equally important is the part concerning the financial data relating to the operation of the new body. The difference, ladies and gentlemen, will not be made by the budget, but by the quality of the programme. It is known that on the show market quality does not necessarily go hand in hand with costs. The provision for balanced budgets, with provision for measures, including the reduction of the remuneration of members of the Board for their achievement, is correct and necessary both for real reasons and for ensuring that the institution under recommendation is well witnessed out. It is also noteworthy that the fee collected through PPC's accounts will not be increased from its current levels, and even more noticeable, I think, by Article 5, the possibility of exempting from the payment of this fee of consumers belonging to vulnerable social groups. I left for the end, in my opinion, the most important part of the bill, which speaks of the independence of the institution under the establishment of the government, of impartiality, pluralism, of democracy of operation, of safeguarding pluralism, of the quality of the emitted information and education programme, of the use of the archive. The bill provides for all the above. The intention is not disputed. But it is its implementation in practice, which will demonstrate that there are safeguards to guarantee them. We will be here to check their faithful implementation, as we will be here to support any other efforts aimed at modernising state broadcasting whether it relates to its contractual capabilities or much more to new technologies, expansion of the Internet, interactive capabilities, etc. We will also be here to support the government's effort, when it comes to discussing and voting on the definition of the legal framework within which private channels will be forced to use public frequencies. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in voting on this bill, I would like to believe that I, too, contribute to the creation of a body of consensus, firmly geared to supporting democracy, a body which is truly independent of government or party interventions which guarantee transparency, is committed to the principles of journalistic ethics and is acting on the basis of professional values and principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Karanastasis. Mr Odysseus Constantinople has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Dendias and Mr. Davakis will take the floor. Mr. Constantinople, will you speak from there?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u8	Yes, Mr. President. Colleagues, Minister, we are talking today about ERT and I think that three words are needed to see whether this project that the government is doing is in the right direction. First of all, if it is done through a democratic process. The Minister, the government, says: "Democracy, it's me. I'm the one who defines everyone. I make up my mind. Everything is under the supervision of the Minister." The second is whether there is an evaluation. In this process, there is no assessment of the bill. Nobody's appraising anyone. I just need someone to work at the ERT, the old one or the new one. The third is the program. To ensure recruitment, the government left outside the external productions. And because, Minister, you cannot charge me anything, because I have nothing to do with ERT, I would like to tell you that external productions many times, bearing in mind that it can control them and that it must be within the margins and limits allowed by the rules, have given public television the opportunity to upgrade to many areas to produce which private television would be jealous of. But what you seem to have decided in the bill is an arrangement in an order you've taken. And here the main issue is - because there are thousands of developments - on which issues you have been instructed. Giannis Varoufakis as Iphigenias, but here Mr. Tsipras has an absolute responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. And you will allow me to tell you what the Prime Minister himself said, because he took responsibility. The Prime Minister on 13-12-2014 said: “SYRIZA's program does not require new loan and does not enter into negotiation. It is the program of Thessaloniki and will be implemented." Ladies and gentlemen, today I do not know what you are mandated for. You don't have a break order. But from what I'm learning you don't have a mandate to implement the program of Thessaloniki. Let me just remind you that in the Thessaloniki programme it was the immediate abolition of HIS. I think you forgot that. You have an order, but you haven't made it three months later. You have the tax-free back to 12,000 euros. You have an order, but you don't bring it. You have the programme of three hundred thousand new jobs. I would like to inform you that unemployment is growing. Nor can you go ahead with that. You've been in the middle. Neither in break can you come or your program can be implemented. And now you're here to drink the "little glass" of all you've been saying in recent years. And we want you to drink it to the end, to tell the Greek people the truth, how you want to move on. The bill today is an easy bill. I expect the broom bill, which I hear from the media, to defend with passion. And I expect to see Mr. Voutsi, who - I understand him, because he is the inspirationist of the group - has to inspire the army every time. But the last, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, was the referendum that the Prime Minister set yesterday. Mr. Prime Minister forgets easily. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister to Mr Hatzinikolau - not to another journalist, but to Mr Hatzinikolaou - in 2011 he said - I think that Mr Hatzinikolau forgot about it yesterday - for the referendum at the time: 'If the Prime Minister attempts to hold a referendum and to put the 'euro' dilemma and measures or exit from the euro' to the people, then the collapse of the economy, the bankruptcy of the country, will come long before the poll. This will not be a referendum. It will be a dangerous roll for the country." Is that what Mr. Venizelos says? Mr. Tsipras says so, Mr. Poppa. And I conclude, Minister, because he said something much nicer after that, which I would ask you to remind the Prime Minister - and that is what I am ending, Mr President. He said that this is a trik of government to earn time in power and Mr Tsipras concludes, saying that the most democratic way of expressing the popular will is elections and not the referendum. Remind that, Mr. Pappa, the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as far as the legislation is concerned, you could do a lot. I do not want to repeat them, because most of them have already been said by the minority's diligent rapporteurs. However, it is worth emphasising the novelty of resurgence of industrial relations with another employer. I do not think that there has been a precedent in legal science, at least in the years of the free Greek state, and it will be very interesting to see how Greek justice will interpret this new. In addition to this, however, with regard to the democraticity of the new project, I think one deserves, Mr Minister, to make a record of the responsibilities that this piece of legislation gives to the Minister of State, who is about to do everything: he approves the statute, he signs the principle agreement, he grants the frequencies, adjusts the reward fee, approves the budget, represents the public, appoints the members of the Board of Directors, determines the fees of the President and the others, supervises compliance with the provisions, decides on matters relating to the revival of contracts, creates the Special Audit Committee. I do not see anything that the Minister of State cannot do, and I really do wonder: what is democratic is there in a new effort that starts with such centralism, and indeed, in the hands of a minister? Europe's attitude to the issues of state broadcasting is what existed in the previous legislation - whether or not it has been implemented - that is, the creation of supervisory boards, which operate as walls between the government will, which always data, even if the best intentions exist, wants to influence state television, and the board of directors of any state television. It is obvious that the first left government does not want such a commitment of its own, its own commitment. It's something we'll see in the course of time. But I think that instead of getting more involved with ERT, it has a sense here to make an account, because in few days the first hundred days of the new government will be completed, the first hundred days - if you like - of the ruling Left in Greece. This is an undertaking, which started with calls for changes of historical size, a new reality for the country and society. I have looked a little bit at first to see the legislative work of this new left-wing government. The government has passed three laws, ladies and gentlemen: a law on the humanitarian crisis - remembering him - in which the first two pages were for the humanitarian crisis, the total amount was about 200 million, and only the biggest part was the creation of new letters, new posters and a supercontroller of the inspection services. Another piece of legislation to regulate late payment, which concerns about 2% of all outstanding debts and also the government's last piece of legislation to dismiss serious criminal detainees, namely the photographic provision for Mr Savvas Xiros. This is the ruling Left's work in the first hundred days. Do you want to add to this both legislative acts? The first concerns the Sugar Industry and the facilitation of large public debts, and the second concerns the consolidation of resources - on the one hand local government and, on the other hand, the universities - also the central government to meet needs. It is worth saying here that, apart from the fact that I understand that if the state is pressed, it has the ability to resort anywhere, this is understandable, that what is unprecedented here for the Left, Mr Minister, is that the Left, as a governing left, violates one of the "terrestrial monsters" of the way it has been directed at society for so many years, the invoking of the self-reliance of local government and the autonomy of university institutions. We are, on the one hand, talking about the independence of university institutions, as purely intellectual work, but on the other hand we reserve ourselves the opportunity to engender their cash at any time. How these two things are compromised, that, I imagine, the government could at some point tell us. If we go to the organizational level of the left-wing government, we have this new shape of ministers with the many deputy ministers. I do not want to be bad, but I predict that in the next three months you will be forced to change it, Mr. and Mr. SYRIZA. You will simply change it, because the malfunctions that are observed are unbelievable and it is absolutely certain that you will have seen them yourself. So this organizational triumph of the Left government also went beyond, the other issue in which it records triumphs is migration. I think there is no man in this Chamber who will not have seen the full chaos in immigration, the complete dismantling of the existing mechanism. Do you want to have any problems? Do you want any improvements? Do you want intervention? We should all put this together. However, faced with the type of solar radiation in Omonia, I fear they are paralyzing and not helping at all. But what I think is worth emphasising as a crown of government efficiency is the question of negotiation. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, in the last three months in Greece, Mr Varoufakis has been used as the'monitoring'. He helps himself with his style, his statements, his failures, but we must be clean and informed. The country has a constitution, according to the Constitution, responsible for the government project is one, the Prime Minister of the country. To 'dour' Mr Varoufakis and leave the Prime Minister unavoidable, I think that is also an institutional error, except for a real mistake. So, what happened in this negotiations these hundred days? First of all, the incomplete 'forward' agreement of 20 February from which we committed ourselves to specific things, we did not get a single euro and returned to 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund. From there on, of course, nothing to say about debt write-offs, which the government had started with masturbation, and the downgrading to 'ethical obligation' of the issue of German corrections. In the midst of this "successful" course, the economy is drying and while the government claims not to take any existing measures as a cause of this allegedly harsh negotiation, on the other hand its activity itself has a huge material effect on the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the last government had a good prediction of the development of the Greek economy in 2015 of 2.5%. Yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke of 1.5% of Mr Hatzinikolaou's programme, of course, and did not commit itself to it either. I am sorry - without wanting to become an angel of evil, I do not wish to say this - that it is doubtful whether the Greek economy will present any positive signal in 2015 and that will, of course, happen if the government turns its course immediately. If it goes on like this, it's obvious that we're going straight to a profound recession. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a painting of Rembrandt in which a king of Babylon sees above him the image of Jehovah, who tells him the words known in the Arabic:'mene, mene, teqel, upharsin', 'I have measured you, weighed you and found you missing'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u11	Since I see that almost all the Members of Parliament are present - they are Mr Philis, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Pafilis, Mr Theocharis and Mr Koutsoukos - I will make a proposal for you to come to an agreement just after two - three speakers tell me if you accept. In order for everyone to be able to speak before the twelfth, I propose that, instead of eight minutes, colleagues speak for six minutes, so that we do not blame everyone left. Mr. Davakis will come to Stepmas and when Mr. Davakis is finished, I will ask you if you agree. After Mr. Davakis, you answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, following from someone, and in particular those whom we represent, the Greek people, these hours, the clashes, the tensions of the arguments and all that make up this legislative procedure about the ERT, I feel that it would be easy to conclude that at the moment the ruling party, the coup d'état of SYRIZA with the Independent Greeks, in a sense of regression, comes markedly and politically to draw up its own specific lines of 'content' from here and forward for the first three months of its governance, but with a section and with one - I would say - in the name of'revolutionary ideological idealism', if I am allowed this soloism, an idealist, which has for many generations and all those who have, in the name of'revolutionary ideology', have been aroused and have been aroused. The public television, which has been missing, as a colleague who recently said, from the Greek people in the summer of 2013, must not belong either to the Right or to the Centre or the Left or to any of us in the sense of the property. Public television, which did not eradicate all these diseases of post-multi-population, a post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipality television that started it in 1974 as a democratic instrument, as an instrument that would expose the political dimension of what was happening in that country, with situations of culture, with people like Odysse Elytis Elytis, Takis Lambrias, Lamprias, who started this course, and coming up after the course, and coming up with the party - after 1980 - which created all these diseases, which today, which has created all these diseases, which are today in this House. I read what the SYRIZA rapporteur said in her first speech: “We want an ERT that doesn’t remind nothing of the model of the past. We want an ERT independent and pluralist, an ERT that will produce information and culture, away from addictions and custody. We want an ERT in which the clienteles of the governments and ministers concerned will not be placed. We need an ERT without an army of gold-paid special advisers. We want an ERT in which the arbitrariness and the exploitation of its wealth by private interests will not be placed." These ten 'no' are the thorny past, which returns to the ERT. It is the past which, if you wish, without an important political dimension of support, has been done by the past government two years ago. But that is what we are going to bring back to our country today. I think that the thorny past of these 'no's', which my colleague said earlier in her first speech, is what the government, at least in the first few months of its course, wants to have as its supportive force. Who are we talking about? Why does the private channels - and someone who, despite the two decades in this Chamber, has not once been hosted on a private channel - attracted the interest and viewing of the Greek people? Because the pathogens, the problems and all that make up the present landscape of the ERT - up to now - are the ones that drowned important islands that were worthy of admiration in the ERT. Because they were more pathogens. And these pathogens, in the sight of this bill, come to resurrect and come again today. The public service broadcaster will come back and be a spoil of the respective minister. This is reflected in the main articles of the bill. The Minister maintains, in principle, absolute control. For example, one of the seven members of the board of directors appoints five, which is a return to the evil yesterday, which you came as honorers on behalf of the Greek people to delete. Isn't yesterday symbolized by this return? I appoint the five of the seven as Minister. This bipolar ministerial arrangement is something that refers to the ultimate past. There is no ERT international broadcaster like the one you set up with this bill. Partial placements everywhere! I wish I could get out wrong. I wish I could go out a liar. I wish I could go out with a sterile opposition to what I'm saying, but all the things that remains to come in a little while. There is no sustainability - it was also said by the rapporteur, Mr Dannelly - about finance and staff. The whole composition is irrational. Of the 93 million, 60 million is for staff. There is a huge wage cost, which will have a similar transfer to the reward fee. About the staff. They return to ERT in June 2013 and those who have already been hired, Minister. Is it possible for those who have already received compensation, without telling them what they have to repay? I would also like to ask: will there be an inspection, as has been done, of the various certificates of all those who were recruited? All this needs to be checked. What about the frequencies, in view of what you said before and which is very important? Frequency, in composition with the National Broadcasting Council, which has legal status because of the end of the term of office of its members, is something that will be a hot potato for you. Go ahead. I am sure there will be such support from the New Democracy. This whole scenery, which was described by both Mr Voutsis and many colleagues, is today a broadcasting landscape in Greece, a landscape of sin. It is a landscape that creates the adversary awe of any ERT and any parliamentary attempt - positive, if you like - to re-establish it. I repeat, however, in what I said that the pathogens of the past will create the huge problems. Ladies and gentlemen, many of the actors who came to listen to the committee at the regional stations have mentioned. There has been no regional ERT in recent years. Apart from large capital cities, from large urban centers, the rest of the Greek region, young children, do not know what ERT means. And I think that there must be a concrete political choice on the part of the Minister in order to rebuild this whole ERT regional network. Nevertheless, I believe that all that is said on the part of eminent executives, officials, ERT journalists, who are today Members of the ruling party, pathogens, revanism and all those who compose the passion that the ruling party has on the other wings, will only bring to this unfavourable conclusion that you are trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u13	In the proposal I made to you, Mr. Parliamentary Representatives, do I have your agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u14	Good. Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Georgios Panza to step in for eight minutes, and then the time of the colleagues will be six minutes so that everyone can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law on which ERT will reopen. We are discussing the legal framework in which we will build a new and competitive public television, a public television that is really independent. The "black" you dropped, gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, two years ago in the souls of the Greeks, inside and outside the border, is leaving. When you described ERT as a "early cow", when you flew two and a half thousand workers on the road, after, of course, you smashed them into the retina that they were "intertwined" and put them in the same bag as the armies "menu", special advisers and extremists, who had been drinking the ERT's dowry all these years. That's when you created social automation through the channels of interlocking and after five months you sent the MATs to the Radiomegaro. In fact, from exaggerated zeal to the Chancellor's "you've arrested" and tied her up in handcuffs. So handcuffs there, but handcuffs in society itself. You have had allies and tools known to be powerful big-bourgeoismen and businessmen, who have scandalously won and protected all these years, extinguishing the tax-bourgeois lists or giving them digital frequencies by contesting - photo. All this so that we do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. These were your practices. So you have wasted all these years public wealth, public money, even symbolism, like the one ERT brought. All these practices, ladies and gentlemen, belong to the past, because today the operation of our public service broadcasting is restored. In fact, its function is legally guaranteed, because the ERT through the sanitary fight has never actually been closed. The ERT, therefore, is restructured independently and weaned by political and economic power, as well as other centres, with transparency and legitimacy, with democratic and accountability, with institutional changes to the Board of Directors on how to appoint it, with control by the PSE and the Committee of Institutions and Transparency of Parliament, with an annual report from the ERT Board, with continuous participation, monitoring and intervention by society, with social control councils, with pluralism and pluralism in the information, with a qualitative upgrading of public service broadcasting, with transparency in the management of economic resources for the benefit of society and, in particular, the restoration of contracts for an indefinite period which were violently interrupted with the black one in June 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, public television was not just a frequency that was interrupted, it was more than that. It is part of our history, our culture, but also of the way in which generations have grown up. It was the means that for half a century every day gave space to the history of the country. It was the middle that for half a century had fun and trained the Greeks through unique film and musical productions that left season. They were productions that so far remain dear. Works by Hatzidakis, Theodorakis, Kavafis, Elytis, Richos and other great creators were affected by the ERT. Producers with unforgettable actors - whom I had the honour of having them in the dramatic school of the National Theatre - such as Takis Horn, Minotis, Paxinos, Constantara, Alexandras, Aliki Vuyuklakis and other great colleagues who entered the houses and opened horizons. Unique documentaries have shaped generations. So ERT is a revolution for that time. And this revolution returns on other terms, compatible with the era, open to society, without parties and exploitation. I close, saying: Some feel bad that at last a Greek government negotiates and fights in and out of the country. Some had memorized a memorial parentheses and were disappointed daily. They are disappointed, because they see that we also have a political will to defend them, and we have a plan for the reconstruction of the country. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] They are disappointed, because they see that this government has work in front of it, a revolutionary and long-term project, similar to that of public information. So the government is determined to end the 'black'. Ladies and gentlemen, the left-wing government opens up ERT! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Panjah. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", fifty-three students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Katerini General School. The Greek Parliament welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Vakis has the floor and Mr Nikolaos Orphanos follows. I would remind you of the decision just now that speakers have time for exactly six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this evening the epilogue of a two-year history is written, the history of a coup against public information, which has shown that the term of existence, the oxygen of neoliberalism, is totalitarianism and black. ERT became north of the oligarchal cartel of the Memorandum of Propaganda. Her two and a half thousand employees became the necessary human sacrifice on the altar of neoliberal elbows, robbers accompanied by the frustrations and lamentations for the privileged dismissals, who gave birth to a supposedly corrupt and silvery remnant, while viewers became the spoil of private channels, along with, of course, the digital frequencies of "DIGEA", which, thankful, rushed to perform their political duty. The 'black' to the ERT of 11 June was not just 'black' to democracy. It was the 'black' in the life and dignity of thousands of workers who were never compensated and who some of them left life silently and quietly. It was, however, also the "black" of NERIT's abortion that you set up on the ruins of democracy, when the "strategic" of Mr. Tentacles chased at dawn on November 7, 2013 as many as they did not return to their homes, but went back with their heads up in the Radiomear, gave daytime lessons of solidarity, collectiveness and self-organization and again made the words "publicity" and "information" worth their name. Ladies and gentlemen, if the first thing the dictatorships have done in their various variations and versions was the brutal violence of media occupation and censorship, the memorial regime of the past five years has resorted to another violence, more velvety, but effective, in other words propaganda. Censorship suppresses, hides and silences. Propaganda is falsifying and mutating. The special advisers and Golden Boys of the Golden Contracts of NERIT, loyal to the practices that were invoking them, no unknown private channels in dance shot Greek sofas every night with shreds of fear, terror and hatred. They were addressing sermons of neoliberal orthodox, the absolute and inevitable destruction, for which we are responsible and must be punished, they put out risk signals for the generalised lawlessness and the order of lawlessness, for the unparalleled vine that the country has become, whenever the flammable material of indignation and anger, whenever the flammable material of despair for a life of the unemployed, homeless and degraded was threatening their authority. Channels that gave birth to the punctual memories of the press "The cleaners have moved against the MATs", which have dug up the civil war doubles "national-speaking and communist gangbangers", bringing them up to modernists and European proponents of the Memorandum Policy, on the one hand, and dangerous ethnicists on the other, according to your friendly expression, flirting with the couchers, gazies even with the kalaznikovs. Only - which is irrational! - Today's nationalists are the alleged neoliberal modernists who subject left-wing and terrorists to the same category and equate every movement that develops, every form of collective resistance by overthrowing the law and order. It was that up-to-date virtual reality of the migrant criminals of a ragged merchandise, who had to go to the unclaimed and the golden dawn children, philosophers, who protected the helpless old ladies from the bloodthirsty dark monsters. In the well-known broadcasts of channels, belonging to lovers of intercourse with the state, the perpetrator was the condemnation of violence, wherever it comes. Will anyone talk about that violence that was committed to the two and a half thousand fired? For the twelve early deaths of ERTs, who died over a year after the black? Maybe for that poor caller who was found dead by heart arrest a few hours after her house was confiscated? Tonight he returns a truly public broadcasting, which will not be a therapist of the state, it will not be a market, but a politically ruthless, independent and next to the needs of society. And along with it will return the Music Totals, the regional stations that have held up, the satellite program, the three national channels and the web site. But they are also returning the illegally fired, resisting and for twenty-two months kept the voice open and alive. ERT workers will be legal and will return, as the cleaners will later return to their jobs, teachers in their ranks, reminding us that the only struggles that are going to be lost are those that have not taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Mr. Nikolaos Orphanus has the floor and Mrs. Jack.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for your understanding, because I haven't had time to cut my word. But I'm going to say it faster so that I don't have time from colleagues. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ERT must open up all its programmes. It must restore all the workers, and in particular all those who fought for SYRIZA to come to power, Mr Panagulis told us, expressing the spirit of the bill and taking us very quickly in the past. Just before the "black" fell: the ERT had been degraded to a syndicate of technicians, managers and journalists. Shortly before the "black" drop: hundreds of "day" recruitments in previous years had exhausted the approximately 300 million received by the operator from the reward fee exclusively in wages. Just before the "black" fell: ERT had at least three years to produce a Greek series. Just before the "black" fell: the answerable lasting strikes had canceled every restructuring effort and further devalued its relationship with the viewers. The truth is, then, one: by June 2013 ERT was hurting the Greek citizens. The closure was an anti-democratic act and, above all, it was a great defeat for the citizens, who have paid for so many years in public television. That is why all spontaneously opposed 'black'. But to be precise, not all public television supporters were spontaneous. Some have set up their political careers on closure so that they will later rebuild their television. The bundle was the butter on the bread of an opposition who was then looking for resistance banners. But, from the condemnation of the closure to the total acquittal of the former ERT sinner, there is some distance. However, I shall repeat it clearly once again: we want a strong public television. Not a state television. And proof of this was the work that Potami did with concrete proposals that would ensure the independence and sustainability of the new body. Unfortunately, they were not accepted. But tell me, Minister, how you understand independence when you appoint the majority of the administration and you chair the general assemblies at the same time. So, what if this is gonna be the independent ERT, the dependant what it would be like? You would probably say the news report yourself and your colleagues would have a show? What you're planning is a government company, which basically falls directly under the Prime Minister. In other words, you want the state canal to drown again in communism and trade unions. Who do you think you are mocking with the public invitation to appoint the members of the board of directors? It's just a simple pretext to cover up their imperial choice. But what is the benefit of the viewer, ladies and gentlemen? The "objective" update of a fully controlled government channel? Or will it be the program we do not know about? The only change you have made, for the eyes of the world, is to listen to our proposal and withdraw the quota of 25% only for external production. But how do you define and ensure the concept of the programme in order to promote the strategic objective of ERT for cultural production? You forget, Minister, that ERT should exist primarily for its viewers to produce level series to have a targeted educational programme. Be careful, it was perhaps the comparative advantage. Only public television has had it all these years: educational television. Public television must give space to the Greek documentary, a sector with an unprecedented international eruption in recent years, as well as to the mythology. The ERT of the new era must aim to disseminate the Greek programmes, Minister, by strengthening the independent producers. They should be given the opportunity to be syndicated in production so that they can "travel" their jobs around the world, as well as with international co-productions. Only in this way will the Greek way of life spread, the Greek language, only in this way will we have our cultural ambassadors. Unfortunately, however, everything shows that the poorly understood publicistic attitude will be established again. Unfortunately, the new channel will also sink sooner or later into misery and depreciation, in which it had fallen before the sad 'black', i.e. 6% of viewing. You let the glorious field do the same as the previous and the next ones who will find reasonable arguments for a new lock. What revenue do you expect, however, when you do not have promotion strategies when you do not have a strategic development plan for the new organisation? Why do you bring about the debate of 1.5% and share it in the production of films and book publishing, when L.3905/2010 on cinema is absolutely clear as to how it is calculated and where it is available? In the cinema world, Mr. Minister, entire branches have been extinct. Don't play with the poor movie people! So who's gonna first share and what if the reward fee is excluded? Setting up channels and radios, with the sole aim of hiring your party clientele, is a vicious cycle of repeating the same tragic mistake. The television you're planning, Minister, will not have much future. Her foundations will be bare. Listen to the river's proposal to set up an Independence and Quality Assurance Council. Set clear criteria for the chairman and the members of the board of directors to run her excellent and not excellent. And before you hurry to accuse me that I don't care about the fired, I'm telling you exactly the opposite. I want those who have been wronged by the closure of the ERT to return to their work, but this must be ensured by drawing up a specific establishment plan. You first hire and then you see how to use them. What serious company does that? I'm very sorry to say this so and don't get offended, but if you went to any private company to suggest this as a business plan, they'd show you the door out. And because a lot of people stoned Mr. Calfayannis, I'm with him, I'm on his side. Why not, man's doing good. He's doing his job very well. I don't understand why not? Excellent! Give your Government, "first time left", a chance to put an end to the party state. Take the historical responsibility. You dare heal once and for all the pathogens that turn us into our bad past. You can justify the viewers, and then only then will every worker in the ERT be entitled to justice, and no one will be able to deceive him or tell him anything or to blame him at all. Public companies, Minister, must be primarily at the service of citizens and not at the service of officials, because the Greek state is being deported on a permanent basis. At some point this has to stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Orphan. Mrs. Jackie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today on the re-establishment of the ERT - if we remember the counter-population, the operation which they closed overnight, by imposing unprecedented 'black' on information, but also on Greek society and leaving a unique body for the transfer of news to complexion - best confirms the government's will to make Greece a normal country again. This is because we legislate with our own bills and not with translated e-mails, bills aimed at improving the living conditions of citizens, restoring the economy, restoring injustices and, in any case, building a new Greece after the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the remarks and remarks made by the Com mittee on Civil Liberties. However, I really have not heard any serious argument but micropsies, populism and insistence on the same mistake. This is because the basic and only argument for which the 'black' to the ERT was only the known blackmail of creditors, since there was no budgetary logic. It was another absurdity, another humiliation of the country that Mr Samaras wouldly have imposed, as a representative of foreigners and not of national interests. However, let us see some of the main points of the bill brought by the Minister of State, holding up the flag of observance of SYRIZA's election commitments and the flag that Greece will become a normal democracy, on its own internal agenda, which dictate the interests of the country and its citizens and not foreign centres and centers. First of all, the reward fee remains stable at 3 euros, showing in the most unequivocal way that redundancies and "black" had no financial effect and was only a vengeance against workers and citizens who expected quality entertainment and information and a gift, of course, in the stride. It is thus entering an end to the spiral and anti-population expectations that they will increase, to use it as a flag that they are supposedly being further burdened by the government's policies. It is thus clear that the reoccupation of the thousands of five hundred workers in ERT who have been unemployed because of the Government's choices is possible, without the citizens being forced to increase their payroll. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill reconstitutes Greek radio and television without re-engineering and with a major concern to improve conditions and upgrade television content. Upgrading the ERT operating framework will help to effectively liberate it from political pressures and acts and omissions that degrade it as an independent and valid provider of information and entertainment. Improving the rules of operation contained in this draft law will help upgrade the television content, which requires the television audience and the Greek society as a whole. Furthermore, through a framework of principles, the foundations for the emancipation of administrations are laid, as is the case with other European developed countries, so that the ERT is the voice of informing all Greeks and not a party liar. After the reopening of the agency in second year, we can see problems and potential solutions which can arise from the implementation of this framework, so that this framework can be improved even further if there is of course a real need for this. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on a few further issues: The bill by the Ministry of State restores all existing structures of ERT, which are particularly important in the region and competitive local stations, structures which have been dispersed overnight without logic, objective and without any budgetary effect. I would remind my fellow Members that Greek Television 3 has closed down an important source of information for the co-chairman, who gave life to Macedonia and Thrace and, of course, the feeling of the Greek region that he is taking part in the country's economic and social life on an equal footing. Together, tens of regional radio stations were closed down, with emissions, with content and issues relating to local communities and improved national policy at many levels, as abandoning the region and the remote areas at the mercy of isolation does not help the equitable and balanced development of the whole of Greece. Finally, I would like to remind you that, along with the black at ERT, an important brand name, known within the country and abroad, was lost, which gave prestige and continuity to Greek public television and radio. In any case, the revival of ERT will mean the continuity of the Greek state with a small parentheses during the period of governance of Samaras. Finally, I would like to dwell, ladies and gentlemen, on another important issue. In this bill there is provision for equal access to information and entertainment of disabled persons, as specific reference is made to the creation of emissions and upgrading of others with selected subtitles, taking advantage of the sign language and acoustic description for the blind. This provision is particularly important for preventable and excluded persons. And it is important, because public radio and television must focus on all citizens, but also on society as a whole, inclusive and inclusive. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister of State said earlier, this bill is a victory for democracy, but - I would add - and all the progressive forces. It is not a return to the previous status quo for a public body, but our practical will and our desire to become a normal democracy and a country again. And we'll be back with the progressive forces united in the chariot of SYRIZA. It also shows that the imposition of unfair policies, wherever they come, has close legs. The present government has the will, the political forces, and especially the society that has been blamed on it, to restore national sovereignty, to lift social injustices, to liberate the productive and creative forces of society. And as long as Opposition thinks how it will tear down, cut down and impoverish citizens in open line with lenders, we will build Greece in which you, of counterpopulation, will always be a disastrous parentheses. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Mr Constantine Tasoulas has the floor and Mrs Alexandra Chanaka is prepared. Mr. Tasula, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, it is impressive to monitor the speeches of the new members of the League from the Step, it is indeed impressive, especially for a man who has not had much to do with what you say 'left space' with great pleasure. So I am watching with great interest and an intrinsic jealousy, perhaps, which I now exterior, firstly, the incredible complacentness, which I have mentioned, and which I am confessedly jealous of. It is unbelievable how you speak of yourself or of your sideliness, that "we are the expressions of good", a religious, fanatical faith, which puts you in the good place, in the cultural area, unlike the rest of the people who are not like you, who, as has been said, belong to the field of barbarism. Admittedly, if anyone tries to escape a confrontation as a graphical approach to this visa, it is indeed envious about complacentness, which at least from me is missing and I should rather like to imitate you in order to strengthen my self-confidence. My second point in the debate is that you consider that both your Government and the draft law for ERT are the first act of happiness, the first act of improving life in Greece important. I am afraid I will not agree with you, and I will express the opposite view. I think that SYRIZA is the last act of post-military drama and this bill of re-creating the ERT - which would be more sincere to say 'the new YENED', the Information Service, not the Armed Forces, but the Nationalist Forces, represented by you and the ANELs - is not the launch of a new change, improvement and unmistakable information, but the last attempt to restore a strong state control of broadcasting. What makes your intervention painless and the control you want to achieve is the sure little and little hearing that you will note, so obviously the damage you are going to do will only be budgetary. I don't think that damage has a resonance on the Greek people. The ERT regime, which your Chief of Staff called before closing, will today be replaced by a similar and much tougher ERT regime, which you are preparing with these 17 articles. It is interesting, however, to see how the past is interacted with the present, the news of how it is combined with other events that appear at first sight irrelevant. I insist that both with this bill and all your behaviour you are the last act of post-political drama, which, in my opinion, began to be strong in its bad effect on our lives after '81 and will be culminated, I fear, in your own advent, which was also electorally and partisanly established and was giganticly influenced by the regime of existent populism, which was also the regime that has dominated Greece in recent years and which we did not have the power to deal with. Today, the memorial tomb for the seventeen years since Constantine Karamanlis. In 1945 Constantine Karamanlis was a man who had been two-time MP before the war and a man whose fate and value reserved him a fascinating career. So he wrote to a friend of his in 1945: “Do you want to have my thoughts on our political things? I think it's heartbreaking. So heartbreaking, it's bothering me and still judging them. As I said before, our place is suffering from untreated political insufficiency. I am sure neither the right nor the left - what misunderstandings, in truth, in our place on these terms - would like to be where they are, if they could reasonably determine their position. It is therefore necessary, in order to save and promote this place, to make a profound change in our political life. The many people think that winning elections and the referendum saves their case. But that is not entirely true. Because it's not enough to win the election. We must win them in such a way that we are able to cope with the post-election period which may be more difficult than today. Yesterday we used the anti-communists' crime in December and today their anti-national policy. But when the impression from December has been extinguished and our national crisis will be brought to an end, what will link us to the people's soul? We must therefore, on the occasion of the forthcoming election, create the preconditions for a healthy development of our political life, which will lead to the creation of situations capable of exonerating people from the need to follow parties that do not inspire him and remove the monopoly of the new and progressive one. In 1945 a huge political figure said what I read to you in a letter, which is saved in a biography. Today, SYRIZA, trying to improve the lives of the Greeks, has been found in a huge deadlock. All he achieves with what he does and with this bill is to fully confirm that it is the last act of the post-military drama. It was supported by the hardship and the worsening of the lives of the Greeks, but it does not propose solutions. He took advantage of the audacity and anger of the Greek people, manned and gypsied politically and today expresses the most backward, the most populist, the most staggering of the state. It is time you realise, ladies and gentlemen, that the elections are not enough to win. You must manage your post-election performance and post-election debt in a way that improves the lives of the Greeks. And you certainly don't improve him by creating a new YENED, by creating a division among the Greek people, by taking the view that you are expressing culture and others of barbarism. But keep in mind that you will have contributed to Greece's exit from the crisis, because after the last act of any drama, after every darkness, the light comes. You are the last darkness of Postpopulation and Greece will overcome you very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. Mrs Alexandra Chanaka has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Chanaca. You have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u25	First of all, I wanted to say that I was left unmistakable by the fact that I am the darkness and you are the light!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u26	And how do you talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u27	Still you're talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u28	What can I say? I admit. I have been attending this sitting for two days, and I would like to make some comments on what I have heard here. First of all, I would like to refer to the stance taken by SYRIZA. Since June 11, 2013 no Member of Parliament or any SYRIZA official has gone to the format what the New Democracy, PASOK and DIMAR governance has built. Secondly, the fact that PASOK is still being cut today for the closure of ERT sounds to me as "slashed my eggs to sanctify". Ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, and you shut down ERT, don't cry. Thirdly, the fact that the New Democracy would defend the canals to pay what was confirmed by the government's tax, I expected that. But with so much heat? So many intertwined ones? Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, which, unfortunately, is no one here, was the closure of the ERT coup? Are we doing okay or not to get her out again? If the two hundred contractors were on the recruitment list, then everything would be fine? On June 11, 2013, he dropped the "black" to the ERT. We said coup then, but we did not treat it as all the other "black" of the memoranda, because this "black" was annoying us. It is our dignity, our sense of justice, our democracy. Two and a half years later, a government with a peak in dignity, democracy and justice, the SYRIZA government, comes to restore ERT, the coup. There are Members who are much better than me to analyse the articles of the bill. I, as a citizen most, come to say that this bill serves justice, because even though many children - including Mr Vorides's - also have their own iPad, they don't see TV, they don't listen to radio, there are some other children who are barely powered, who barely have a dish at home. So we care first of all about these children, about the most unfair part of society, about the right of the most impossible to form socially and politically, the right to education and entertainment. That's what we're defending today. The right to have alternative forms of information. We are defending the right of particular social groups. The right to public television. This bill serves to strengthen democracy, the constitutional right to information, outside the sovereign order, and the right which democracy gives us to listen differently, minority views. The right of democracy to be the first news to be different if you see another channel on television or to be the same news, but presented by all angles. I support the fact that this bill also raises the sense of dignity and this is the case, especially because each one of us, through the vindication of the ERT's dismissals, also recognises its own right, sees the stop of the party of public administration. Because, ladies and gentlemen, these people who are reoccupied are not our children, SYRIZA has not appointed them. SYRIZA and the government are trying to correct an injustice. Dignity and respect: These are the words that, in my opinion, fit all those who have kept NRAs open and ERT Open for two and a half years now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u29	We thank Mrs Tsanaka Alexandra for the very correct use of time. Mrs Eleni Stamatakis has the floor and the parliamentary representative of the Group of the European People's Party will follow Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it was about two years since June 11, 2013, when the responsible Minister of Press and Media and Government spokesperson, Simos Kedicoglou, announced that at midnight on the same day, ERT would close definitively and its approximately two and a half thousand employees would be fired. Just before the dawn of June 12, the signal broadcast from radiotelecommunication antennas all over Greece was interrupted. Automatically, the TV screens were tanned and all the radio stations that brought the voice of information to the last atrocious village and kept the Greeks together around the world. The Third Programme, ERA2, the Aegean ERA, which has kept us company for years, with the very high quality of their emissions at all levels, have stopped emitted. The radio stations lost their transmitters and the frequencies. The "black" at ERT1 was a great blow, a blow to the heart of democracy, for real, but also symbolic reasons, which made the world round and led the country to the sphere of darkness. ERT1, ERT, the public information body, follows the modern history of Greece in its great moments, in beautiful and difficult times. But the Samara government, in addition to the harsh measures of austerity, brought new customs. Within a few seconds, the history of modern Greece and our democracy was painted with black, such as the dignity and future of this people. This black in the receivers was also the symbolism that was sealed at the time, malnutrition, censorship, freedom, deportation of the Greek Parliament. That was the policy of the Memorandum of Understanding. Only the occupation forces, by invading them, had dared by force and intimidation to fade the voice of democracy, free information and information of the Greek people. Those who had memories from that time, and the younger generations, all the fighter for democracy and the freedom of the people, fell off the road and a huge wave of reaction, but also the support of the thousands of them made redundant. Despite the announcement, ERT workers continued to emit and only MAT surgery stopped their work. Throughout Greece, local stations have become competition and mobilization centres. The struggle of the hundreds of ERTs fired through ERT Open, ERT3, the regional ERTs has shown that these people, the workers, have both the will and the qualifications to serve independent information and culture. With them this struggle for twenty-two months, the workers have shown that public broadcasting has not been buried and that democracy resists the choices of submissiveness. The massive and touching mobilization of the world, the solidarity, the fellowship, but also the vitality of the historical memory and the long history of the ERT with its valuable archaeological material united us, strengthened us and reminded us why we must not let them take us from this place and our lives through our hands. It is worth pointing out that the choice of ERT1 between other public bodies and businesses to find the thousands of redundancies requested by the troika was not random but well planned. However, the plan failed and marked the beginning of the tripartite government. The line of political stability with their own criteria and the Prime Minister's decision gave a tan on the screens, the final blow to Greek democracy and exposed the country internationally. In the harsh policy of austerity and the harsh neoliberal reforms of the government of Mr Samaras added a heavy symbolic move. The government indiscriminately fired two and a half thousand people who came to the thousands of other redundancies, a cut in thousands of families. The government has managed to make the unprecedented, that is to say leave a modern European country without public television. This move has turned boomerang to Mr Samaras' government because it has not calculated the social ties of the people with the ERT. Firing ERT, it was like they removed from the Greek people the right to freedom of expression and independent information. And this was a great humiliation for the citizens of this country, together with other measures that had been taken at that time. This humiliation was not forgotten by the Greek people. And when the time came, with the strong card in his hands, the vote, he punished them. All the above I think they are advocating precisely why ERT needs to be reopened and reopened. The draft law introduces something innovative, for the first time the Social Control Boards are set up, through which society will participate and exercise control over the ERT. For us, public television must be a model of information. It must promote the culture of the country, be a model of democracy, pluralism and freedom, support and lever in social reconstruction and highlight the history of the potential and the prospect of this place, unite with the people's voice and leave no one in the darkness, ignorance, distortion and manipulation. We won democracy with bloody struggles and a part of our democracy is public television. We're not giving her away. We want her here alive and free to resist anyone who tries to fade the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Stamatakis. Mr Theocharis, Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami. Mr. Theochari, will you use all year round? Do you want a dentist too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u32	Not together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u33	Eight minutes you have at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 'black' to the ERT has brought us here, a 'black' of horizontal redundancies, with a previous government, which does not believe and believe in the reforms, in whose name it often expresses itself, even with any exceptions. He did it everywhere. He didn't believe in reforms. He did it to the ERT, too. You - I mentioned it in the morning - believe in it. That is why you will fail. We have a rough bill here, Minister. I'm sorry to say that. It's not your fault, but it's a rough bill, a series of rough bills. I'll give you a parentheses. You have brought four laws for the hundred doses: one was in the bill on the humanitarian crisis. Immediately after the bill came the same. There you promised to smokers that you'd give them millions. You didn't. You made it wrong. You brought in an RDN and now you're bringing us a new layout. That means sloppy. If that doesn't mean sloppy, I don't know what it means. Talk about Article 21, in which you said we'd finally catch the triangular transactions? What happened? You have brought a ministerial consultation decision, which is completely illegal. It's ruining the law. You brought a law to which you are ruthless and there you are, for example, excluded - because a lot of reason has been given for fuel - the refineries. You exclude the refineries in this ministerial decision without any legislative authority. Correct it. Don't sign it. This ministerial decision is illegal. In other words, you cannot be impeccable to the Greek people when it comes to signing, implementing and not doing so. Why is this bill clipping? I will only give a few examples. In work there is a horizontal conception of jobs. Automatic revival says the law. Some of these workers are in special liquidation. Within ten days, as soon as he gets FEC, they won't be able to continue to pay. Are they going to continue the special liquidation at work or not? Will they work at the new ERT? What's gonna happen? Will they have a choice if it's any good for them? You're talking about settling. You say that there will be three types of contracts: the 4024 one for NERIT, the one for the single payroll, without pre-service recognition, contracts with pre-service recognition for old workers in ERT and a collective labour contract for those employed from now on. What collective agreement? Under a collective agreement, will we negotiate the single wage? It's a law, the single payroll. Whether we're mocking the workers or we don't know what we're writing. But that also has an account. No one has mentioned that. You're passing the account on to the Greek taxpayer. Conservatives estimate: 55.5 million from the compensation of old workers. These were paid from the budget. They weren't paid by the ERT. The budget paid 55.5 million. A total of 8 million was paid for 2013 licences, which had not been received. So far, it has been roughly 65 million in total and 45 million of the 1999 voluntary exit that remains to be paid to the insurance funds. We are transporting the workers to the new ERT and yet their costs - 100 million - to the Greek budget. Already the multi-project has an extraordinary contribution for over thirty thousand incomes. That's what we're told at least all the media. This extraordinary contribution you will make to us tomorrow is an urgent one because of the ERT bill. And whoever votes for it, knows and tells the Greek people: I vote for it and ask for 100 million euros from the Greek people, the Greek taxpayer, the Greek unemployed to pay them. Not only half of it, not just the costs, and then they took the costs. Is that the concept of publicity you have? This is where the black has brought us. That is why it is the biggest mistake that the previous government may have made. And like the black one has brought us here, so this sloppyness with which you are dealing with the problem, as pending, will bring us into change of this thing. Why? Why do you make a bill you've strangled, as I have said, ERT, which is worse than the previous ERT. Before we had a general meeting. We had three ministers, at least. Three ministers could even, in character, disagree with the General Assembly. Now you have all the decisions, Minister. The 'black' has not only shut down the ERT. Let us remember that the 'black' has brought us a minister responsible for the media, Mr. Burke. That was the first one in a row. Third, it's Mr. Pappas. From 'black', gentlemen, you kept the minister responsible, who fully controls state television. This TV isn't public. It's state. It's the only thing you liked to keep from "black". Meanwhile, before the ERT, we had the management board, which was at least appointed by the PSE, with a government proposal. It was even a pillow between it and control, strangulation. In NERIT, we had the supervisory board, another pillow. And Mr Philadelphia told us this - that is, I alone as an organising newspeak - that the supervisory has failed, because they have resigned from it twice. Instead of telling us that this is the proof that something is working. The supervisory didn't work well. I won't be the one to say it. Besides, it was the first time he worked until he found the way it works. But the supervisory is doing his job when they resign against the government, possibly denounce it. This is the task of the supervisory body, trying to ensure some kind of credibility. But that is your understanding, as I said before, of public policy. We want institutions, gentlemen. The country needs institutions. And what do you say? "We're honest." This is your answer: 'We are honest'. So what? Don't you need institutions? No, they do. I wish you could remain honest, but remember that when the next minister fills the entire ERT program with immersions and documentaries about how bad immigrants are, it will be your fault, gentlemen! You, who have given him the opportunity with these institutional interventions to be able to do so. Why should you not see a man, a young man, and possibly an honest man, and with every political will to do that. It's not a public chip. It is not at least a left-wing policy, as I can understand it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thirteen district directors: Eleven of SYRIZA, an ANEL and an unidentified ID - "ATIA" - district ruler. Because it made me the honour of the Prime Minister yesterday to refer to the rumbles I supposedly did. I would like to ask this, ladies and gentlemen: what other agency did you find in writing the requests? Who else demanded that any request from the government to the independent General Secretariat should be made in writing? Or do you think that the rest of the services aren't made? You know that very well, because some of them also become opposition MPs. You know very well that the ruffles were done. The only service found in writing was the General Secretariat. Because that means independence. That's what it means. When you say that you're messing with the channels, it's not only 2%, it's 20%, it's probably a hunch. We're waiting for it. I hear it's in the new yards. I wish you'd put it into practice. After all, I signed it as a monthly and in the last few days the previous government has done it annually and has postponed it. Put it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u35	We will honour your signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u36	Do it. It's right, to the extent that this tax has to be. I couldn't then judge it. But Mr. Panagulis unfaithfully revealed to us the plan of the government, an honest man I honor him for his history, his struggles and his mildness. But he said to us - and I read it - 'In particular, the government must restore all those who struggled for SYRIZA to come'. You're spreading bills? Is that the problem? It's not just who the bills are, but we shouldn't spend bills. That's not the government's job. We have had Mr Polydora's 'blue kids' and we now have 'pink'? Is this a political or kindergarten image, the "blue" and the "pink kids"? So is this the picture we want? Oh, no. So put them in the interests. Is that enough? No, because we want order, organization, institutions, changes and focus on implementation. He wants a deal, we see changes, we support you making the deal, but he wants implementation, it's not just a deal. What did we hear from the Prime Minister yesterday? We've heard a description of deadlocks. We make a deal, we do nothing after 20 February on this agreement, and now suddenly, in the last ten days, we have time to do it. Even so, do it! However, because we do not know where it will take us, we are talking about a referendum, about a total disaster. A referendum, as you say it, will be a 'euro or drachma' referendum. And even if the banks don't close, once a poll says 50% -50%, 50% of the people who are for the euro won't run the next day to get their money, will the banks shut down the next day? Do you think that's controlled? No way. The reason why you are the same as the previous government is: the agreement has three parts: the austerity of the Greek people, the debt we have to pay and growth. It is growth and production that supports the other two. The bigger it is, the less debt we can pay off and the less austerity we can do. You've already brought down a recession. Already 2.5% did it. The previous government did it. You did it. Now fight, if we have 0% surplus or 0.7%, for how many meters you get. Investments, however, must bring exports to practice. And can I give you an example? How do we get growth when we're still fighting early pensions? What do you say? We say to the 50th, "Get out of retirement. You have experience, you have knowledge, you have productivity, are you in your best years? Sit down and be paid." And what's he doing? The good guy at least gets bored, so he goes and works "black" so he doesn't get his pension cut, he drops the pay of the rest, because he works "black" he doesn't care, he has his pension, and then we have "black" work, tax evasion and a para-economy. This is what you have to fight if you want to have growth. We're waiting for the plan. It will bring us regulation, decommissioning, amnesty and even a good one, the independence of the General Secretariat. We support this. The previous government, in fact, lasted two years before, essentially in responsibility. The next one, after the remodeling in six months, passed since May, which gave the Greek people money, the social dividend in November that increased taxes on hotels. And so it fell, ladies and gentlemen. You waited for her as a mature fruit. If you come and go on like this, share various axes, and soon hit the middle class again, there will be a problem. Because 30,000 euros income for the extraordinary contribution is not the rich, it is the middle-class, the one that hit the previous government with HNVY. And I would like to make a small parentheses here: two or three months ago I predicted that HISPIA will not change. I thank the Prime Minister last night, who indirectly referred to me again and justified me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u37	Mr. Theochari, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u38	I shall conclude, Madam President. So, this middle-class, who left New Democracy and went to SYRIZA and, now that you're going to hit her, that's what's going to lead you down. You're looking for conspiracies and enemies, I've seen them in Maximus in earlier times. But the conspiracies and the enemies aren't outside. 'They have entered the city', ladies and gentlemen 'the eighths'. They got into town. If you look, you will find them: They are your ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u39	Mr. Theochari, thank you very much. You've spoken for thirteen minutes, so you're only entitled to three minutes for dentistry. I will give the floor to Mrs Danai Jeka - Kostopoulos for six minutes. Mr. Giannakides will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all remember, I think, the night when the coup d'état edited the ERT. In summary anti-democratic procedures it sent unemployment to two and a half thousand workers, but it also left the country and the citizens with no public radio and television. For this very reason in this House, we are not simply discussing the re-establishment of a body, we are not yet discussing the removal of an injustice, but we are essentially discussing the restoration of freedom of information, which, by means of legislation, was sacrificed together with the workers. For this very reason, as much as an attempt is being made to degrade this bill, it is clear that it is a bill that is not just about the ERT workers, but essentially about the entire Greek society. This became clear from the first day of its closure. It became clear from thousands of people outside the ERT facilities, it became clear from the solidarityrs, who for twenty-two months stood alongside the workers' self-managed works. That, of course, was something that you, ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population, could not have predicted, because the classic five-year tactic, which was investing in a latent social automation, did not work this time. It was the same basic narrative that briefly argued that for the impoverishment of large parts of Greek society it was not the harsh memorial policy, but instead another privileged social strata and when it was the civil servants, when a particular professional sector and this time the ERT employees. A great deal of importance, therefore, on the one hand, for the solidarity of the world and, on the other, for the efforts of the workers to keep their microphones open from ERT and ERA, is that they have practically broken a series of myths, a series of myths, which the previous governments used to support. That was the way to justify, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, the harsh memorial measures. This has also been your way of deceiving anything public either to inform about education or health, for the benefit of not always of any public interest, but of large private capital, and in this case of canalarchs. This bill, therefore, must be the beginning for the debate to open up what information we really want, what controls we can find to ensure the public interest, but also in what ways we can get closer and approach what we call free and objective information. Today, this debate remains not only timely but also necessary. In order to see this, it is sufficient to coordinate ourselves in a document of the eight. There, on a daily basis television stations invest in the catastrophe and terrorisation of the Greek people. The juncture, of course, is not at all accidental, as it is the first time that a Greek government, with a torso on the left, puts the issue of public frequencies on the political agenda and raises a question of claiming their tax on use. On this point, I should like to mention, as mentioned before, a forgotten Memorandum of Understanding by the previous governments. In the so-called 'Memorandum 1', therefore, in the many anti-grassroots measures that have been implemented almost immediately, there was another commitment, a special tax of 20% on the value of advertising. And while we would all be well aware that the so-called sacrifices for our country's salvation will be persecuted by all the economic operators, three Memorandum governments have, in turn, postponed the imposition of this tax every New Year's Eve by an act of legislation. That is why any argument that is heard here by the memorandum political forces cannot convince us, because it is precisely the same arguments that have been put forward to us for so many years. Why? How do we do it? - the results of the political practices that followed so many years, we all know them very well, whether we are public or private workers. We also know very well that these practices at all were aimed at limiting the great sufferings of the public, which you yourself have created, but which shield even more and at any social cost large private interests. Twenty-two months after the black in ERT, then, the time has finally come to decide what kind of public television and radio we want. In this draft law we are seeking a new ERT and when we talk about a new ERT, we must also stress the 'new'. We are therefore seeking an ERT away from the sufferings of the past, which will not be a party liar, a part of the interlocutory and the fragmentation of public money. We therefore want an ERT that will bring another political culture to information, an ERT that will provide society with what it deserves, not what it gains most, which will be a transmitter, and therefore also receive different aesthetic features from what is being promoted up to now. At the same time, however, something else also has to be emphasised as important. The new ERT promotes a new concept of administration and operation. The bill provides for a new model of staffing with employee representatives and the establishment of social control councils. This is the first time that such a model is introduced. However, there is a distance that we still have to go to, in order to capitalise all previous experiences in recent months, the experience of self-management. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must also go along with this, if we want the new ERT to be a model for social reconstruction. I would like to focus on the importance of local NRAs. Regional and radio stations are an essential part of public information throughout Greece. In addition to their long history, which was mocked by the previous government, an attempt was made to cut off the deep roots that the regional stations have always had in local communities. The NRA Volos is a representative example, because it has been operating since 1948 and is transmitting, in full daytime operation, to this day and has not stopped broadcasting even after the sudden death of ERT. On the contrary, thanks to workers' struggles and the support of the world, it has tried to form a cell of solidarity, alternative information and culture throughout the entire period, as has many other regional stations. It is clear, therefore, that NRAs should return more powerfully to serve information, quality entertainment and highlight the particular features of each region. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is not enough for a law to guarantee freedom of speech and social control to public bodies, but at least some conditions are laid down, even now,. And it is up to all of us to have this policy done and to be a model for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u41	Thank you for the excellent use of time. Mr Giannakides has the floor, and then the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Philis, immediately thereafter. Mr. Giannakides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been about two years since the night of 11 June 2013, the night that, in the name of achieving the Memorandum of Dismissal, the government then decided coup d'état to take the rolls down to the ERT. Approximately two years have passed since the nights the world flooded the ERT Radio Memorial, stirring its opposition to the government's coup d'état practice. For the vast majority of our people, the 'black' imposed by the government of Mr Samaras on ERT, was identified by the 'black' which imposed on their lives and their future. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are coming to legislate in favour of the reopening of the ERT. We are coming to give the Greek people the public good of information and entertainment. We come to regain life in the Music Ensembles and through the websites, as well as the valuable audiovisual archive, to re-create a window to art and culture. To fulfil this objective, the new ERT undertakes to have 1.5% of its annual turnover in support of film producers, as well as book publishing. We are coming to deliver a body that provides quality content for every resident in the remote areas of the country across the state and for the Hellenism of the diaspora. We are coming to legislate in favour of a public and reliable broadcaster, independent of state interference, but also of the influence of private interests, away from reasonable waste and immunity, but within the framework of sound management, without an increase in the fee, but with savings in resources, a reduction in privileges, a reduction in the waste and hidden remuneration and a substantial financial control of the past's actions, ensuring its independence, but also social control, and a refund of the redundant workers, without a financial burden. At the same time, we shield the new body and the public interest, offering the possibility of being at the same time a network and content provider for digital television. Within this framework, we believe that the digital platform of the new ERT can be a serious alternative to regional TV stations, which have been caught in the existing and commonly accepted private platform. Speaking of private television stations, I would not be able to make a reference to Civic Opposition. You have called us 'canals' because we are legislating in favour of the re-establishment of the ERT, you who support the position of real major-according authorities not to pay the fees for the use of frequencies, using as a pretext for the crisis and putting the threat of redundancies in their staff, if they are forced to do so. Your sensitivity, however, is selective, because you have never complained about the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that have put a padlock, you have never been interested in the micrologics who have seen the hards of an entire life disappear overnight, you have never found anything to say about the hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who have lost property and dignity of austerity. You never grieved for those who couldn't stand and left. But it's not just a matter of sensitivity. It's mainly a question of choice. Why did you choose to immerse a whole people in despair and misery, cutting wages and pensions, because you chose to dismantle all concepts of social cohesion, freeing up the framework of collective redundancies and legislating for employment - elastic, because you chose not to apply the Memorandum of Understanding, otherwise, to ensure that the media system, which supports you all these years, is not disturbed? It is precisely at this point that we must make it clear, within and outside Parliament, that we are going to put an end to the permanent institutional, fiscal and economic immunity that some felt could have in the inter-industry. You called us "mergelists", you characterize the opening of ERT as a one-sided one-way energy, uncovering the eye to the lenders. It seems that after the ideology, you even adopt the phrase of lenders. Finally, you accused us as "fifth Phalanga", you who on the night of June 11, 2013, acting as satrapes and with reason of the "decide and order", sent the MATs into the black midnight to drop the ERT transmitters. You, who wrote in the oldest of your shoes the reactions of the Greek people, from Agia Paraskevi to the most distant part of the map, which reached the voice of the ERA. ERT is a part of the spirit and the flesh of the Greek people. Today we come to give it back to him. In conclusion, I would like to make a more general reference, in relation to the previous years of governance of the New Democracy and PASOK, to which a tough programme of violent redistribution of wealth and power, which destroyed the economy, the country and led the vast majority of society to a daily struggle for survival, has been implemented. In their destructive work, they always managed to find a third party in their company. Once the LAOS, after DMAR, and now, in the position of Antipopulation, finally found their most worthy political supporter, the Potami. The new government will not go ahead with the adoption of existing measures and the dismantling of industrial relations by the release of redundancies. It will not give in to the extortion of creditors for the continuation of the disastrous policy, as it is our commitment, primarily to the Greek people, not to return to the sacrifices and mistakes of the past. And at this point opposition should at some point take a clear position. Does the new government consider that it should withdraw from its positions and proceed to an agreement, accepting any condition and claim of lenders or that it should continue its fair demands and remain faithful to its commitments? To date, all forecasts for successive dates of termination of the state's orderly operation have been disproved, to the great disappointment of lenders and those who invest in the ‘left parentheses’ scenarios. This government, despite the difficulties, despite the efforts of economic strangulation, has gone ahead with a series of parliamentary work. The law on the humanitarian crisis has passed, the law on the hundreds of doses, today the law on the reopening of the ERT comes the bill to restore the minimum wage and a lot of other bills, despite any difficulties. Because we are sure and will continue to be on the side of the victims of the crisis and those who have chosen to impoverish with your policies. It is your turn to choose camp if you will continue to defend failed policies of the past and the interests of the few and economically powerful and truly responsible for the crisis. It is your turn to choose whether to contribute to this effort or to limit your role to a sterile opposition of communication character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Giannakides. Mr Philis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. You are entitled to eight minutes in the protology and from three minutes in your tritology and tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. In 2015 it can mark the reversal of 1989. In other words, since the jungle-based lawlessness in the broadcasting sector created by the jungle, with the degradation and dismantling of ERT and the strengthening of private radio and television, we must go through the legality and restoration of the authority of public radio and television, as well as the restriction of the immunity of private radio and television. This can happen, because today is the political connection. In the government there is a popular, democratic current, which, beyond the question of negotiation, promotes progressive values in everyday life, fights to restore the public, fights for the new relationship between the public and the private. It does not defame everything that the public is and is not subject to anything private. This is SYRIZA's political initiative. It is true that this more general ideological and political initiative by SYRIZA does not like the Memorandum of Opposition. And today, representatives of three parties who have agreed to this, have produced the Step here. After all, the two are responsible for dismantling the black in the ERT. They are also responsible for the immunity of their television bosses. The representatives of the New Democracy, PASOK and the representatives of the River - a little more shameful, but also there in this common agenda - have given the impression that, if we are discussing the bill on ERT, a quasi-corporate of the memorandum is in place. If you listened carefully to Mr Venizelos, you would also see the reactions of the Members of the New Democracy. He's the Chief of New Democracy, Mr. Venizelos. He expresses them with his eloquence, his arguments, with his confidence in the draft memorandum. And we must say that, in fact, these three parties find that the great popular support for SYRIZA despite the difficulties of negotiating, creates a pitiful future for them. They can't exist as they are. They need to think about some reconfigurations. They have the Portuguese model. Today we have read that the two main Portuguese memorial parties - the centre-right and the other, the preservative with the alias'socialist' - are going down to the elections together to deal with the Socialist Party - with Marios Soares old leader - who was opposed to the memorandum, from which Portugal was supposed to come out, but who are constantly taking even harder measures of recession and austerity today in this country. This Portuguese model is clearly a'survival', which is not easy, but - from there and here - to save the people and the political forces responsible for the current situation. Because what we are living in Greece today is a deep social bipolarism, which is based on the awareness of the citizens of the anti-social consequences of the Memorandum and Austerity policy. If these are not lifted, unless there is a political initiative to relocate the Memorandum forces, there is no visible political future for these parties, no matter how much they join together and want to create an artificial counterweight on their part. So it is social today the problem of bipolarism and not an artificial top problem. It is also interesting that the dolphins of the different parties were bailed around the ERT. We heard them. It is certain that what they have not realised and they are that any personal future of them in such a political setting cannot be ensured if they continue to be presented as the defenders of an abominable Memorandum Reality. On the issues of the bill, we have heard many excesses. Some even spoke of YENED. Of course, I am tempted to say that my colleague from the Yannina who has introduced us into the YENED neology, saying that the 'E' is about nationalism and not armed forces - is a genuine child of late Averov. And it was the late Averoff who maintained YENED, this emblem of plunging information by 1981, when the disappearance of YENED took place in PASOK. It's all right, though. It is important to stress that the quasi-corporate of the memorandum continued its attack on public television. In an advance way, it attempts to defile the new ERT without data. He doesn't even expect to see a script. This preliminary defamation of public television, among other things, constitutes a service to the complexion. Besides, the dissolution, the black at ERT was a service to the complexion, to the channels of the interlocutory. Ladies and gentlemen, when we hear a sermon against populism, we recognize behind it a hatred in every form of popular and democratic. There was populism and there is. After all, its newest version is the Memorandum, a horizontal defamation of society, "all of us have eaten it together," he said. This is populism, i.e. the equation, the extermination, the nullification of differences, the perception that the whole society is on the stand and the obsolete power is above as prosecutors. It is clear that this apology of the powerful, identified by an indictment against the weak, is the worst form of populism. And this form of populism, i.e. the confiscation of the public and the service to the great private interest, are the emblems of the memorial period, which the people leave behind as far as they can, through a tough negotiation conducted by the government. We also heard cries about party television. Bad phrases sounded in here, yeah. Everyone has the responsibility of his sentences. The bill is clear. Everybody's coming back. Not our children, but everyone! There will be a section evaluation. It does not mean that the new ERT will remain without evaluation of its parts and objectives, but they all return. And they do not come back under the regime of the guild and the pathogens of the past. On the contrary, there is a complete separation between administration and representation and trade unionism. Because the history of co-management, not through direct procedures for the election of representatives, but through the appointment, refers to a bureaucratic model of party union, which we are absent from and which we do not want to let survive in today's new ERT. So, then, the screams are voices of undermining. They're service cries to the complexion. The cost of work is 40% of the total operating costs of the ERT. The new ERT will be 50 to 60 million. In NERIT, the wage budget in 2014 was 34 million, and in the implementation of the budget it reached 53 million. It's a sample of the household. So we do not have a serious disparity with the new ERT, where more work will be done: about two thousand people over a thousand who have been employed or employed in NERIT. We stress, because we want it to be made clear, that the oldly accumulated debts of ERT are public debts. They weren't made by us. Since 1999, there have been accumulated debts of ERT to the insurance funds against the state. This is an elementary good functioning of the state that recognises and serves them. They have nothing to do with the operation of the new ERT. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proud that the ERT will reopen these days, because we believe that the citizen's right to information, culture and entertainment is a right that must remain irreparable from the attack of the great interests, from the attack of the market forces, from the attack of the political forces that are subject to the market and the great interests. We will safeguard the objectivity of the new ERT and that will be seen by the choices that will be made, by choices that will be decided by the Greek people and by their faces and credibility, but also by the programme that ERT will receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Friend. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Georgiadis has the floor for eight minutes and we are seeing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u46	I will not get over it, Madam President, so that Mr Panagoulis is not sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u47	As you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u48	Madam President, thank you. Mr Philly, I must admit that if I lived in another country and listened to your speech, I would be afflicted. I would say “What holy men are they the rulers! How we have misunderstood them!' But let us do a reasonable check on the arguments you have put forward and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has also developed. First of all, it says - 'our pre-election commitment'. In fact, the argument was partially accepted. But listen, Mr Pappa, what do you think was more important to the Greek people? To reopen the ERT or to abolish the ENVY? Which one of the two election promises do you think played a greater role in shaping the election result? Because yesterday the Prime Minister told us that ENPIA will be staying in 2015 and, of course, you know that Greece is a saying "neither permanent nor temporary". Because it has linked the dismantling of the EMCDDA with the achievement of specific budgetary objectives and particularly growth rates, which you are pursuing is impossible to catch. So until you learn to handle public money - you want a 50-year-old - we'll have HISPIA. Good, the Prime Minister told us. Therefore, the argument about election commitments goes for a walk, dear Mr. Friend, because if your criterion is that, you should start with the HICP. Let's go to the second argument of the Minister. He developed it very intensively. What did the Minister say to us? That you will do an unbroken ERT and even argued that 'we do not hire' - it says - 'our own children, since they are the old'. They are the old workers, those who entered, others with transparent, others with non-transparent procedures, but in any case they are not your children. Indeed, Mr Panagioulis - all right, I will not comment very much on him - and in his naiveness he took the thoughts of SYRIZA. You must, he says, hire those who got killed to become SYRIZA power. "From a small and insane you learn the truth," says a proverb.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u49	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u50	I call it a proverb. I'm going over Mr. Friend's fine argument that everyone is responsible for what he says. Me, too. Everyone's responsible for what he says. It was an obvious reproach to Mr. Panagoulis, but be careful. All right, let's say this was a talk of a Member who doesn't express the Minister. Two questions here, Minister: How do you do non-party ERTs, while you have full authority to administer and appoint its board of directors and all others? You were told not only by the Members of the New Democracy, not only by Mrs Vultesis, but also by many other Members, because you have abolished the supervisory board. You mean it wasn't working right? With you! SYRIZA's answer that something was wrong - why did you say in your speech that two had resigned - is 'I abolish it and the Minister takes everything on it'? Is that the progressive answer to SYRIZA? A progressive response would have been to see why the previous supervisory board did not work properly and we had resignations from members, from denouncing, as you said in your speech, the previous government. You didn't do that. What does the citizen now understand? Because the previous supervisory board had some members who, in some of the possible interventions, resigned or said so, say, ‘Where can we get into trouble now with supervisory boards? We completely abolish it and we do what we like." That's what you're doing. I've been following you since yesterday and you haven't given the slightest explanation, because there is no supervisory board. You haven't given an explanation. One explanation why the Minister has full jurisdiction in the ERT you have not even said as an excuse. But listen to the second question of 'our own children'. Ladies and gentlemen, can you tell me - I do not remember them, I refer to older colleagues, before Mr Koutsouko - a bill in which Members of Parliament who vote for it have a direct benefit from this? Is there another bill like that? He said, "I cannot legislate and exclude SYRIZA Members." I agree, he can't do it, it wouldn't be right. The SYRIZA Members, who are so sensitive and who are not for their own children and who legislate as good people, for the common good, and it is impossible to believe that they are legislating for their own benefit, what did they do? There is a Member - not to say his name, if he wishes, - who will be appointed as soon as the bill and his wife are passed. So what's going on? Is the Member voting, in order for them to become civil servants and his wife to enter the Greek State and this is called the "first time left" and progressive governance? Now, we're obviously joking. You're saying that's a joke. If it were to happen in another party, they'd come across the street to show them one by one with a finger. I won't. We know them. Besides, you don't have to. I'm just saying, to get a taste of the new ethos of the Left, which Mr. Phils, I admit, is so charming. But we're still going to one more thing, Mr. Philie, because I really liked your argument. We are returning, he says, with this bill in 1989 to the 1989 legality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u51	Convert, I said, backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u52	You don't remember them very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u53	I remember very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u54	Until 1989 in Greece there was the so-called 'Green ERT'. The Greeks had no other thing to find out what's going on. They saw the 'Green ERT'. It was Maruda's time. Do you remember when they asked Maruda "whether they would make a satellite of new technology?" And he said, "Will we put a rocket and throw it?" It was the season of the satellites at the time. What did you say to us, indirectly but clearly, about this new era since 1989? I would like to tell you that it started with a lot of disadvantages, to tell you that it did not start properly, that the authorisation had to be made right from the start. All this with you. However, all the wrongs together do not cancel the major one, since 1989, and after where we had a party television setup, which nobody learned anything else, we suddenly went through the era of pluralism and learned the other way. Of course, in the time of 1989, with an ERT, there would be no SYRIZA in power today. The regime would have made sure the Greek people hadn't learned it at all and you'd still be at 4%. So, indirectly, but clearly, what did you say to us? That at the back of your mind you, the good left-wing, the democrats, the pluralists want you to return in 1989, to appoint your MPs to the ERT by means of the bill and therefore your other children, as Mr Panagulis said, and then, if possible, to reach that time on the status television. Of course, you've been overdue long ago. And if you want to do it, you can't. This is where Kim Young Eun can't do it in North Korea. Will you do it here? You may be admiring him, but you can't do it in any case. Fortunately! However, Minister, to close here, because I do not want to abuse time, I will submit to the Minutes the reply of the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Croy, on 13 October 2014 on a question relating to the tender procedure for DIGEA, to which you have particularly referred, which, as you know, has been checked by the Commissioner responsible and the European Commission, if there is any illegality. You will see from her reply - I imagine that you know her answer, but I say that she has dispersed your attention - that the European Commission has said that all the competition is completely legitimate and has been made as required by European legislation. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I wonder: If you want to cancel this tender and intervene in the matter of DIGEA, as you suggested yesterday, the compensation that DIGEA would have requested, since the competition was carried out legally, will you pay it out of your pocket? It'll be interesting to tell us, because the only way to cancel something already done in the Western world is to respect legislation. And government to be, you can't do whatever you want. I'm closing down, just saying this from our morning conversation. You know, Mr. Tsipras gave an interview yesterday to Mr. Hadinikolaou, a very interesting interview. Mr. Tsipras may not yet have realised that he is the country's Prime Minister. Diplomatic events have already been created since his interview. You know the statements made by Mr Diaselblum and the general new turbulence, which creates a new stage of conflict with our partners and the European Union, simply because other things considered the ones that Mr Tsipras accused of making fun of him. Oh, what a pity, our Prime Minister fell victim to the bad guys, Dieselblum and Draghy, and he didn't know! He was new to this job, the kid, and he was caught by a sucker! Only those he accused have another narrative about the facts and we go to a new conflict. So listen. Because you are now ruling and can take the country into great adventures, you must understand that you are now ruling, and so every time you say something, you must weigh it twice and three times in the light of national interest. Of course, I'm glad Mr. Merkel met her now and appreciated her. Indeed, it is very interesting that, now that Mr Tsipras has met her, she has appreciated it. When she was out here and she was boiling, and she was boiling with us we welcome her to Greece, she didn't know her yet! We didn't know if he knew her, you guys, we'd have escaped all that fuss! But if from all this history something positive comes out: rule the way it should, so that you don't take the country to the rocks. Because that will be too painful for all of us, Mr Ministers, and you do not have that right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u56	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u57	Madam President, may I also have the floor on staff, why was there a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u58	I will give the floor to Mr Philly on personal grounds, and then the Minister follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u59	Madam President, I will take the floor for a minute on staff because there has been a misunderstanding. Mr. Georgiadis misunderstood. I said that in 1989 a regime of lawlessness was founded on transactions in the broadcasting sector and this can now be changed. I did not say that the regime was good before 1989. Of course, it is of great interest that the whole argument was an argument made by a lawyer from DIGEA, namely the big-government, as well as, unfortunately, I will say it - and the transfer here beyond the creditors' narrative of the negotiation. Let each one draw his own conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u60	I'll give the floor to the Minister, Mr. Pappas, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u61	Madam President, I will speak briefly. I apologise to the Members for the abuse of the right to speak. I would like to say that this government goes beyond the limits of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, so that there can be consensus, transparency and non-party choices to this process. I would say that because the criticism of this bill is evolving around this axis, I would expect an elementary self-criticism, especially from you, Mr Georgiadis. Because what I can guarantee you today is that no member of the government will be allowed to enter the glasshouse as a bull, enter the ERT studio, dive the microphone from the journalist and round to the panel to advertise his face. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u62	Who did it? There's nothing happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u63	You did it, Mr. Georgiadis. I'll give you the video.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u64	Did you get into the ERT? But that's not the case! They tell you fairy tales!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u65	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u66	Don't yell, Mr. Georgiadis. You have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u67	You're referring to a time when on a show I was invited to a retarded panel and I went in and I got my microphone when I went to sit in the panel. But I'll reverse the argument. What a pluralist confidence I can...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u68	Something happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u69	Nothing at all. Do you think I'll have some canal issues?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u70	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u71	It's the stories that tell the ERT. They're ERT's fairy tales!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u72	Listen to me. What confidence can I have on you two for pluralism when you've been banning me for months? Do you remember the embargo? Mr. Skourletis, since you're here, can you point me to a country in the Western world that the party of Officerial Vice-Population is barring the majority parliamentary representative? Even a congressman! Have you seen it before? So, listen to yourself talking about defending pluralism, it'll fall and the ceiling will kick your ass. Look out! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u74	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u75	Mr. Skourletis, you only have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u76	It's not possible! This violin we got now? Are we gonna have a show?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u77	Mr Georgiadis, you are ungrateful because you do not understand that dialogue must be conducted with certain rules that you - at least for my own system of rules of dialogue - have not respected. That is why I personally - and this concerns only myself - gave you this attitude: I had said to all channels - and thankfully respected it - that I was in dialogue with Georgian authorities. You talked about pluralism. Wait a minute. What pluralism do you mean? I had the chance for five years to deal with canalarchs and midsts every day. It's pluralism of your government representatives' phones every day at the editor's meetings, to subject them to threats of what they would write and what they would say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u78	Who, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u79	That's pluralism. One more thing, because you guys are cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u80	Get proof of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u81	Please, Mrs. Vulture, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u82	You are in favour of the free market. Is this the concept of the free market for DIGEA which he has gone to? Why do you want the 'DIGEA' monopoly? Do you know why? For all these were your only allies in the black years of the memorandum. It's all over. Now democracy, pluralism is restored. What can we do? The sitter's been there as long as he's there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u83	Did the Government Representatives call at the meetings? Madam President, I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u84	Mrs. Buddhism, he didn't make any personal references. I don't understand the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u85	I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u86	Madam President, no, I will not leave you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u87	...and Mr. Koutsukos is following. They will speak as Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u88	Mr. Skourletis will tell us which government representative he called at the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u89	I'm very noble, Mrs. Vulturis. I would ask you very much to resolve them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u90	Mr. Palphie, excuse me a minute. Now tell us which government spokesperson called at the meeting. Now tell the name!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u91	But what can I forgive you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u92	I've given the floor to Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u93	The name to tell us. Who was the Governing Representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u94	Mrs Vuldesis, I have given the floor to Mr Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u95	Madam President, all this is stigmatizing Parliament. It's okay. Maybe someone's coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u96	Mrs Vuldesis, I have already given the floor to Mr Pafile. That's not good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u97	It's your thing. When he says that a government representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u98	Are you done now? But how is it going to happen? Is this violin we're gonna hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u99	Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u100	Don't make both of us virgins. And non paper, you too, and you leak and press, and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u101	The non papers are official!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u102	All of you. Okay. We use the street of official announcements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u103	We all understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u104	Please don't engage in dialogue here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u105	Don't all make us all here that you're saints and that you're not interfering with the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u106	Mr. Paphie, start now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u107	I'm not interfering.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u108	I don't know if you're interfering. I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u109	I'm talking about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u110	Now let me tell you. I'm in a difficult position. I cannot follow Mr Georgian's high-level positions, for example, astonishing and others. We cannot come to an agreement. But I want to say something about the process and it's the last time. Look, at noon we agreed that the Parliamentary Representatives will not be speaking. Mr. Venizelos has raised the political issues, everyone has spoken about the needs of television. We suckers won't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u111	I didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u112	You spoke for a minute and a half. What you wanted to say, you said it. We're from here, too. We may be from a village, but we've adapted. That won't happen again. We will either stick to our word or not make agreements with the parliamentary representatives again. And I say it from this Step. We are one of those who is trying to save time, to talk to the Members too. To leave the very high level of analysis that Mr. Georgiadis has done and to begin with this: Do you know why they are shouting like that? Because you're eating them the bread now. Because from where they were talking about the sovietes and all the rest of the and we said that SYRIZA is not going to do anything like this, nor does it have such things in his schedule, now that you come and whatever you start and slowly retreat, the New Democracy will go out on the tiles, because you eat the bread for her, really. Now you have to make up your mind. What's the matter? What Mr Vorides said this morning, which came fresh, fresh to greet the government that retreats and comes to realism, etc., or what you were saying here and which is literally out of the question? This controversy is taking place. That's why you're making superficial criticism. That's why you're focusing on ministers. Because strategically you can't fight them anymore. And if you keep going to the same logic, you'll see the results. We therefore - because on the political issues we must - repeat what we have said yesterday: Turn the ground to create a climate for the people and accept the new agreement, to which - as the Prime Minister said - the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is very close. Burnt land. That's a familiar recipe. Not that there are no huge problems. Burnt land exists, but also unstoppable wealth exists, unbelievable in the time of the crisis. Burnt land, though. It is difficult for the European Union. The partners are tough. Really, did you find out now? What were you talking about? Europe is changing. Let me repeat it. Isn't that what you were saying? We have said that it is hard, that it does not change, that the institutional framework of the European Union is that and it is not within the European Union that you are going to achieve pro-Latin solutions, and you to the people were saying the so-called easy path, that, yes, we will do better negotiation and retreat. Here's the results. The Greek people can and must draw conclusions. And to draw conclusions, of course, because you might say it's tough, but you're finally adjusting. And the pressure put on you by New Democracy, as Mr Voutsis said - Mr Voutsis said, you want to incorporate us - you are moving fast. That's right. We're not surprised. On the other hand, you also have the New Democracy policy, which is a little - very much trying to present to the people that we are forced to live in hunger and poverty to obey the allies, the European Union and the interests of capital, which are supposed to take society forward in 2015, with hungry people looking in the garbage, with unemployed people, with a huge wealth that exploits him a handful of plutocrats. That's how the game is now playing. Who will make the best management and integration within the European Union. It's just that the roles in the Opposition have changed. As far as the latter are concerned, it is important. With regard to privatisation - which was one of the red lines - you used to say that you would get it all back. What was said yesterday? Let's see if we're out of reality. It has been said - and I want to be objective - that nothing in general is in our theory, but we are retreating. In fact, privatisation is useful when it is done at a good price and when it helps to develop. That's what the Prime Minister said. It is true that public property is being privatised. Hippodrome is privatized. The Bullian star is privatized. DESCRIPTION is privatised. The port of Piraeus and the airports, which are big thorns, said we would discuss them if the public were to enter. Maybe the public's in. And if the government gets in with 10% or 15% or 17%, I tell you, will it change anything? Of course not. So the privatizations "amazites" almost. Full retreat. Of course, there are the oldest ones. I mean, what happened is we don't tease them. Will you ruin the percentage of PPC that private individuals have? Yes or no? Oh, no. Are you going to get OTE back from 'DEUTSCHE TELECOM'? You say'strategic areas'. What are the strategic areas? Aren't telecommunications, especially in 2015? Will you take him? Nor do you dare to frustrate this because, to take it, there are two ways: either compensation or revolutionary procedure. The second thing you don't think about is her. To compensate him? With what money?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u113	So, what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u114	Revolutionary process. The people are making an account. He says, "Lords, since you are causing me, we have paid you eighty times, you owe us both above, so they belong to us." And they don't belong to us. However, this cannot be done because the Committee on Competition of the European Union will ban this. But we've been talking about that, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u115	You want a revolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u116	We say the people decide to get the wealth they produce in their hands and do not back on it no matter how much you try to mislead him or pressure him. Secondly, pensions have been placed on the table, collective redundancies. We'll get them back if you agree to others. The VAT has also been set. And what did the Prime Minister say? He said the thorns would go later. Why? Will the laws change after that? No, of course not. It is now clear that you are preparing with salamation to cut off the large subsidiary. There are also things that do not actually apply to five thousand pensions in the regulation. He's cut off the memorial. Where is the HICPI? To whether and when the economy develops. That's all about the people. Even the things you had declared, you get them back through the negotiation. But for others, for individuals, what does it say? Investments in tourism, energy, healthy entrepreneurship. The last time we've separated her into healthy and sick. Of course, no one is speaking here of those who support entrepreneurship, that is, capital. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish, Madam President. I haven't used any previous dentology or I'm not gonna use it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u117	I didn't fight you, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u118	No, I want to be okay. You didn't fight me. So to them what is being announced is the institutional framework, to facilitate investment. New Democracy and PASOK said that. To solve the major bureaucracy that prevents investment. I do not imagine that they are addressed to the shopkeeper or to a small businessman. Whatever obstacles, that is, they have to leave quickly. That's a lot of pressure. Besides, you've said it before. That's not new. I'm just repeating it. The state administration will operate otherwise and there will be a stable tax system. So, what are you gonna do? Will you bring 45% tax on profits? Of course not. You say'stable'. Will you abolish tax exemptions? Fifty-seven are shipowners. How many others have there? That was said yesterday and they are constantly said. So to those, that is to say to the people, you say 'the things are difficult', 'we cannot', 'they are pushing us', etc. - there is all this, it is real and wealth, it is real and the need for the world to live and that defines politics - and you tell others "we will create you to bring growth..." - capitalist growth - "that will create jobs". What jobs? Not even with 751 euros! Did you see, Mr. Skourlet? When we said you wouldn't do that law at once, you told us we were suspicious. We don't have divination skills. We read what everyone else says. Now where are you going with this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u119	Retreat, Mr. Pafile. You were saying more. Why did you go to 751? I see a dilute...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u120	We're starting with what you promised. We say 'at least' to get more. What about the collective agreements? Big thorn! That's a big thorn! Look, don't rush, or you'll be exposed again. You've already been exposed to everything I say. What did you say about HISBIA? Now you want me to start criticising this kind of thing? I don't want to go on. So I say that these are the two sides. When you say, I'm going to restart the economy and develop, what exactly do you mean? Capitalist development. How is capitalist development in all the capitalist countries of the world? Because you're going to drive us crazy in the end. Enhanced business groups with warm state money, privileges are given, there are low-ranking pieces of jungle labour relations - which exist - invest, win, and the worker can get any crumbs at best. And again, the cycle of the capitalist crisis comes again, after accumulating profits. That's the model. I would like to say one more thing, to clarify, as far as the issue of privatisation is concerned, whether it is state-owned or not: the system itself, when needed and when it is necessary and where the interests of capital are served, does it in the public interest. Is PPC going to be made by a private person? Since he had fifty years of amortization. The Greek people made it. As soon as it becomes profitable, the civil state hands it back to the private sector. That's the story. The same with OTE, and in a number of strategic sectors. So by themselves, they don't solve. We're just saying it's focused. It's easier to pass to another system when it's public - to have it in the state, than to have all individuals across the street. And it is even bigger - if you like - the intervention of the People's Movement itself many times. Because we do not like a few things, I end by saying that there cannot be any such kind of arguments, that there are three Members or four - I do not know how many - journalists fired and that is why you are making the bill for them and that there is a national issue. Are we serious? What are they called? Is that the criticism? Here you put a padlock on the ERT, you closed it overnight, you upset all over Greece, you paid dearly. Hey, don't talk on top.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u121	You're not gonna censor us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u122	I mean, when a law comes and favors doctors or lawyers...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u123	Whatever we want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u124	...or anyone else, all the others quit?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u125	All doctors and lawyers must resign!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u126	What kind of argument is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u127	You're not going to make any censorship?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u128	Mrs. Vulture, do you have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u129	Stop it! Oh, my God! Once, the JRC and you there, boo-boo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u130	Please don't have the floor. No one has the floor, only Mr Pafilis. It's over and out. Mr. Paphie, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u131	Have I talked about the JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u132	Yes! You spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u133	You can solve this, Thanasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u134	What can I solve? If you don't put your tongues in it. What can I solve? We dare not talk about New Democracy and you speak. How do we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u135	Mr. Paphie, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u136	So I'm saying that's not serious. It's to hide more. When that kind of criticism is made, it also characterises the one who makes it. I mean, tomorrow, if there is - let's say - a pressure and comes by legislative act - which will not happen, but, anyway, I say a hypothetical scenario - and the minimum wage goes one grand, the JRC's partners will resign next day. What are these things? What's that logic? It's to hide other situations. Finally, I would like to congratulate the government, because where the New Democracy left it, you are continuing it, ladies and gentlemen. Three amendments, three bills...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u137	Four.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u138	Quarterly? Hey, I don't get it! I think you should have a competition now, as is the case with legislative acts and amendments. There have therefore been three amendments, forty pages each in the sports bill. And here is not the "teacher you taught and law you do not prevail". Here is the fact that the student is overcoming the teacher. Despite what you have complained - every time we had the coups here, the House is doing what the other one comes, etc. - now we have two legislative acts in a month, now four bills have come - three I have seen, it can be a quarter of an amendment suddenly. We are, however, not going to tolerate this situation. If you keep it up, you'll be on your own, at least us. We have all the will to make speeches, to make suggestions, even though it is a voice of oxen in the wilderness. If this function continues and if the days of parliamentary scrutiny are to be abolished, then we should go to a parliament which is going to be extermination in here to get things through very quickly, even though we are generally careful in our handling, to know that we are not going to tolerate such things being done along the way. So take your measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and four educational attendants from the Ptolemais Music School and from the General Church High School of Florins. The Greek Parliament welcomes the students from the two extreme parts of our country. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Koutsoukos has the floor, and then Mr Tsirkas Vasilis will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, in order to be fully informed, because we have our political and ideological differences, but on how we are discussing this, Mr Pafilis was right earlier that he made reference to the agreement not to have Parliamentary representatives second-hand. I didn't break it, dear colleague. I wanted to make a 30-second comment. I'll repeat it to see it was thirty seconds. So I come to my place. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sum up this two-day debate on four points. The first thing about the bill. We said "black" split us. We convicted it. We tried to change it. And at some point, the Minister, Mr. Burke, and because I have heard the representatives of the River, I do not want to classify him in the same category as those who used public media as a long-handed government - he has made a serious effort to go to an objective, transparent and pluralist public broadcasting body. And I said yesterday that we, as self-criticist, presented both the Alvizatou plan and then the Mosilou plan to change the pathogens of public service broadcasting. However, we cannot accept a criticism from one side which shows that, unfortunately, there are still unrepentant right-wingists. Because Mr Georgiadis referred to the ERT of 1981. I would also like to say to him that, if the historian of the future - so I believe - fairly assess the major change in 1981, he will appreciate that it was the first time that there was a left-wing government to put the poor, despised and persecuted in the system of political power. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, what one would expect from a government that says it is on the Left is to bring us a draft law which guarantees transparency, pluralism and objectivity today. And we have proved by our rapporteur and our speakers' positions that he does not. He doesn't want a supervisory board? Let's call it a board of quality and efficiency. Let's turn it into another instrument. Let her find her own procedures according to the rhetoric and the so-called Left, since I remember her, in what way and in what sorts of security differences she can say that you guarantee these things. I do not question the good intentions of the Minister. But you know, ladies and gentlemen, the road to hell is in good intentions if you do not have security mechanisms and folds. And when we tell you, Mr. Friend, "Servigate pluralism, objectivity, do not make the new ERT long-handed government", I do not think it is a memorandum position. It's a progressive placement. Unless we reverse things. I would also like to find a contradiction in this respect, ladies and gentlemen. Those who have taken advantage of the plight of the regime, the ERT, who are denounced today, cannot vote to do the same again. This is a great contradiction. Solve it inside, colleagues of SYRIZA. It's none of my business. My second remark is about interactive relationships. The government officials, in particular Mr Voutsis, and other ministers, have mentioned relations between the media, economic interests and politics. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is well known. There's no glaukas in Athens. It's part of the vicious circle of crisis. And of course - I said yesterday - I want to say this today - it is not solved by complaints. Mostly, however, it is not solved by complaints from private media against other media. That is what I said, Mr Palhei, to this small intervention this morning. I said that Mr. Tsipras from a private channel - that is, he has a name, he has a boss - denounced the interests. Will the Prime Minister allow the government to play in this confrontation of interests? If we want to address this issue, we must go to a new, institutional reform of the whole system, namely the provisions of the Constitution, the provisions concerning the functioning of the political system, and even the electoral system, we must go to provisions that Mr Venizelos had proposed here and the House voted in the Constitution on 'the main shareholder'. This is a progressive policy. That's not a memorial. So bring them up, ladies and gentlemen, as the first time left, to discuss them. My third point concerns the political significance of this weekend. What did it mean, ladies and gentlemen? It was marked by the castration of Mr. Varoufakis. You did this because some people have pointed it out to you - because that is what some of your interlocutors leak from the 'institutions'? Did you do it because you found the deadlock? But this is the cruel reality. You cannot report to us yesterday - Mr Tsipras and today Mr Voutsi - and give us what you confess. You confess, in other words, the deadlock in the negotiations and you are self-criticizing about the failure to negotiate. Mr Chakalotos said very specifically that we should have taken the dose with the agreement of 20 February. Mr. Tsipras confessed last night and said he was fooled. Can the Prime Minister say he was deceived? The most important thing is that you are trying to deliver them to us, maintaining the dividing line that has led you to power, a memorial-antimony, with which you have been associated with Mr Samaras for a long time. Let's not forget. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because I hear from the media that you will bring a bill for measures during the weekend, perhaps after the Mayor and will receive a number of things, ends the memorial - antimony. And we can tell you that we had a plan to get out of the Memorandum, and you, with what you're doing, are holding our legs in the Memorandum. So this rhetoric will disappear too. My fourth remark, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, has something to do with the parliamentary complaint. Heavy talk, huh? Yes, sir. Mr Pafilis said earlier - I wanted to denounce it from this step - that amendments to multipurpose bills on education were tabled in Mr Kontonis's bill. In other words, what should have been the subject of a national dialogue, consultation and a minimum consensus on the public good of education, the government brings it in the form of an amendment to a bill on sport and violence. I do not know what the government officials have in mind and whether they will even allow us to call institutions. Because the amendments, Mr Philly, have been tabled by the Minister responsible after hearing the bodies, so that we do not have the opportunity to call for a hearing of bodies and for dialogue. I don't know what's in their minds, but this is catastrophic, it's a diversion, it's one of the things you've denounced. And that's not all. It is that Mr Katrugalos' amendment was tabled to an irrelevant bill to put your hands on the money of solidarity between generations. I will see you when the amendment comes. And of course, tomorrow is the legislative act, which Mr Tsipras falsely told Mr Hadinikolaou yesterday that we brought it to Parliament - and Mr Hadinikolaou either did not know it or he did not want to hurt it. The truth is, it's going through time - a month later we're - and we'll say tomorrow about the substance. So these are my four comments and, to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that unfortunately you have too early to take precedence over what you have been proclaimed in the election and, in some cases, dangerous. I hope that what has been done in this time will be taken care of, because if you continue at the same speed this downhill, we will obviously be in dangerous disastrous situations. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Tsirkas has the floor for six minutes, so that we can remember the time for the ordinary parliamentarians and prepare Mr. Syrigos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u142	What is provided for under the procedure, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u143	Mr. Circa, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u144	What is provided for under the procedure? What time is the meeting going? My colleagues are asking for information.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u145	Until the list of speakers is finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u146	How many are the speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u147	It's about twenty-three. Mr. Circa, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to add my voice to this day of democracy, because, as much as some of my colleagues from the Opposition are trying to distort the substance and content of this bill, this is really a victory for democracy, for a day of democracy. Because on June 11, 2013, thirty-eight years later, ERT did not just silence, it did not simply stop the ERT signal from transmitting, nor were two thousand six hundred and sixty-six employees on the road. The democratic signal is gone. It was the day the Memorandum Policy of the Government of Samara proved that the Greek Constitution was a text that does not require respect. No country throughout Europe leaves and closes public broadcasting. We have been isolated from the European roundabout. You handcuffed democracy. The violent interruption of the continuous and uninterrupted provision of public service broadcasting opened a huge wound to democracy and caused the wrath of our society as a whole. However, the real reason for the decision on the sudden death of ERT was not its financial reassurance, but its submission to the Troika in order to get the number of redundancies out of the public sector and at the same time to give a message of discipline to the rest of the workers. The "black" to the ERT and the creation of NERIT symbolized precisely the authoritarian and hypocrisy of the previous government. And it is no coincidence that from the first bills of SYRIZA it is exactly what brings the ERT back, returns the workers where they really had to be for two and a half years. The bill we are called today to vote therefore comes as a restoration of democracy and its institutions, because on 25 January the Greek people chose to raise their standing towards the memorial policies and today it is time to raise their voice. That is why ERT will be reopened to become the voice of the Greek people. We want an ERT aimed at restoring equality in the transmission of information and news, in the quality of content, in the promotion of culture. This ERT will strongly defend the information as a public good. He'll defend man's value. It is in no way our goal to transfer the old ERT model, but to create a multi-speaking public broadcasting that will provide democracy, independence and freedom of speech. In fact, for the first time society, through the Social Control Boards, will be the one with substantial intervention to the ERT that controls quality and information provided. So the draft law expressly obeys the need for the Greek society to demand a truly independent public service broadcasting. The previous government's attempt to replace ERT with the format of NERIT was ultimately a monument of bias, opacity and monolithicity. NERIT will remain a very bad memory for the Greek people, because our people are entitled to full and pluralist public service broadcasting, and this will be acquired in a few days' time. Our political will is clear and consists of transparency, democracy and information. This political choice reflects our valued framework, our view of free speech, because the reopening of the ERT is a one-way for defending social needs, for defending the social whole that the failed austerity programme has managed to level. He managed to create a memory of all of us on June 11 as a "black" day. And it will remain on the pages of our history to remind us of the days of the memorial cruelty and the days of democracy, while the Greek people and ERT workers gave a life struggle to leave the "black" and return democracy to the country. That is why Article 1 restores the historical name of ERT and this decision is not only symbolic, but also essential, that is to say, the aim of restoring the relationship between the social group and the public body. We made a promise to the Greek people that this coup will not pass, and this alone is a victory for democracy. Article 2 is another important point of the bill, because it refers to the coverage of the geographical whole of Greece, but it also refers to the Depopulation of Hellenism. It was said by many colleagues that in many areas of the country, but also in mountain areas of my prefecture, Arta Prefecture, in the Municipality of Central Tzoumerkos continue to see 'Black'. Why? Because for private interests and canalarchs all these people are second-class citizens, they are a direct violation of the Constitution and its provisions. These people are still waiting for the missing digital TV signal. We therefore want ERT to become a modern workshop for democracy, culture, entertainment, away from government and party interventions, with strong and effective social control and, above all, with confidence in workers' experience. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, workers have proved throughout this time, during the twenty-two months, that they have the willingness and the knowledge to serve information and culture away from dependency, but mainly they have given a steep answer to those who have characterized them as boastful or incompetent. So ERT opens up for society only by it is controlled and will be apologies for it. Finally, the 'black', the one-sided, the dehydrated. Principle titles for a modern public radio and television with all guarantees of transparency, justice and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Circa. Mr. Syrgis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my current critical position is being attempted under the strict framework of Article 15(2) of the Constitution, since it has not been possible to revise it until 2001 by those who have been able to do so by parliament, as other thoughts have prevailed, not unjustly perhaps, since it has been written: 'The huge force of influence and formation of collective consciences available to television, which, up until now, has been argued to be 'the indirect television experience underpins the direct experience of life', has brought it to the fore as it concerns the operation of the democratic principle itself.' Article 15 of the current Constitution stipulates that radio-broadcasting and television are directly controlled by the State by conferring that competence exclusively, but also by defining, at the same time, the framework within which it will move. In other words, once it has given exclusive competence to monitor and impose administrative sanctions on the independent authority of the National Broadcasting Council, it determines the form, purpose and context of direct control by the State of broadcasting. Ladies and gentlemen, the concepts of control, particularly direct and independence, are mutually influenced and balanced in a third sense which makes these seemingly opposing concepts compatible and capable of coexistence. This is the concept of responsibility which the State and the independent authority assume. It is the concept that removes any contradictions in the exercise of direct control and the protection of the independence of broadcasting. Therefore, broadly (de lege lata) interpreted by the above constitutional provision, it is not only intended to define the frameworks of control, its purpose and the scope of the independence of broadcasting, but also who is responsible if something goes wrong in these two areas, i.e. if there is more control over and against independence. This is of considerable value, considering that we are all usually concerned only with ensuring independence, as a right guaranteed by that constitutional provision, but forgetting that this provision also defines the responsibility of the State and the government. In any event, as it is accepted, this provision, where there is doubt, must be interpreted in favour of the independence of broadcasting and its entities by reducing the powers of the State in respect of the broadcasterate. This extensive foreword attempts to trace the wider framework governing the operation of broadcasting in order to avoid the metaphysical meaning which is often given to the concept of both control and independence. I think that this issue, as far as ERT is concerned, is resolved in the first articles of the bill under discussion in a wise and appropriate manner, while the relevant development of the matter in the first pages of the explanatory memorandum accompanying the draft bill describes in detail and adequately describes its aims. In addition, through the draft legislation under discussion: Firstly, the results of the illegal intervention to the ERT in the summer of 2013 are corrected and the injustices, irregularities and misrepresentations that this intervention has brought about are restored. Secondly, there is a detailed and clear description of the purpose, means and mission of the ERT, which is in line with the relevant constitutional provision. Thirdly, the ‘compensation’ is defined to fulfil the objectives of the ERT and which are exempted from it. Fourthly, its administration and functioning are defined in detail, as well as its supervision and control. It is also important that Article 14, where, in detail and clear terms, the issues of the rehabilitation of the dismissals are dealt with, their reintegration and, finally, the strict framework for which their claims can be made. Fifthly, it is still right and legitimate to take account of the above and to amend Article 48 of the Treaty. 2190/20 with the addition to the legal interests of the Member States to seek the solution of a company operating in the media and the competent Minister of State. Finally, two other important virtues of the draft law must not be dispersed. One is that social control and intervention by workers are widely guaranteed by its provisions rather than by semi-measures. The second is the provision of the conclusion of an agreement of principles between ERT and the Greek State to ensure pluralism and pluralism in information, the qualitative upgrading of public service broadcasting and the rules on transparency in the management of its financial resources for the benefit of the social system. It is an innovative provision, which I believe will be of a regulatory nature rather than just regulation and which, in the details it regulates, will also contain rules on transparency in the management of its financial resources, for the benefit of the social system as a whole. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be voting in favour of the draft legislation under discussion. To conclude, however, my criticism of the bill we are discussing, I cannot avoid temptation and refer to a well-known Elliott verse which is a regulatory authority, a compass and one which, every time we discuss similar issues, related to information, news or information, every time we talk about the informed and cognitive citizen and the current situation in the media, but also to more general educational issues: 'Where is the wisdom that we have lost in knowledge?' Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u151	We thank Mr Syrigo and the very proper use of time. Mr Stergios Giannakis has the floor, but I see he's not here. Mr Skoumas Athanasios has the floor and Mr Meikopoulou follows. Here you go, Mr. Skuma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in all this debate, and in committee and today, there has been a number of arguments from Opposition and, of course, without that having any effect, without being able to counter the substance and the real dimension of this bill, which restores democracy and public service broadcasting. There is the concept of neoliberalism in Anti-Policy embedded in the concept of neoliberalism. Neo-liberalism without the required neo-conservationism cannot exist. Neoliberalism, the destruction of labour rights, the dissolution of the social fabric can only be synchronised by the consolidation of authoritarianism. The political and communication strategy of strife is absolutely necessary to carry out the neoliberal political experiment. This strategy was followed as a model in the case of the ERT. And here was the clear property concept of the previous government for ERT, a concept that comes out of the dismantling of the rule of law, absolutely essential to the enforcement of neoliberal recipes for the memoranda. But the insult of democracy as an austerity to democracy was precisely the one that caused the government to break down then cohesion, with the withdrawal of DMAR from the then government coalition, the social coexistence of support to ERT and the beginning of the end for the Samara government. The bill comes to restore constitutional and democratic legitimacy. It restores the reinstatement to work unjustly and unconstitutionally made redundant. It restores the ability of all television and radio stations operating on 11 June 2013. Here I have to say that the management of EST Open can be the basis for social control provided for in Article 10 of the bill. And the continuing call by the Opposition for the role of the Supervisory Board, I think, is just a pretext for the supervisory board, since it has never been upheld by the Supervisory Board, but there has always been the government's enforcement as far as the functioning of NERIT is concerned. But I would like to remind you of Mr von Wogau. 4173/2013 what he then said in the explanatory statement: "It needs an independent new body, serving the democratic principle, which requires that state action be a result and not a manipulator of popular will." This was called by the manipulators at that time government partners, who today have unlimited courage, but no memory. The dark in the ERT on 11-6-2013, the police invasion in the Radiomear in November 2013 and the night raids interrupting the signal to the ERT transmitters were serving the democratic principle? They don't talk about them, of course. They are not talking, because the restoration of the ERT, the return of its workers to their work, is a restoration of democracy. They are not talking about the substance. The then government partners are now seeking to eradicate memory, in order to easily indulge in the continued defence of the memorial policies, as if there were no "black" as if there were no violation of democracy. It has also been heard by representatives of the Opposition as a question that'may a defect in broadcasting compete with private channels'. He responded to Mr. Nikos Simos then, whom you remember from his term of office at ERT, that "they would not ask for 70 million for LAGH if ERT had not been able to give them, i.e. they were not really healthy". This is asked by the initiators and performers of the "Black" after having prepared to facilitate and give the frequencies to the "DIGEA", i.e. private TV channels, and not to proceed with the competitions for the ERT transmitters. They talk about the ERT's 'competitiveness', the ones who posted the tax annually, 20% of television advertising, which did not impose 2% on the end of the use of frequencies. They are asking themselves, who imposed 25% in favour of private energy producers, making the economic position of ERT worse, even when television broadcasters are directly related to energy interests. They blame for a lack of competitiveness. It was also heard by the New Democracy that the government wants the information "controlled" by the state and that the New Democracy wants regulation, information on entrepreneurship. Apparently, SYRIZA doesn't want the information controlled by the state. It wants an independent and pluralistic public broadcasting body, and that is what the government is legislating. What New Democracy means is that it wants to control information from private channels, that is, from the elite of money. After all, neoliberalism reserves the role of subordination to economic power. With the "black" in ERT and the charismatic regulation in favour of "DIGEA", i.e. the canalarchs themselves, the previous government won, in this coup d'état, the service of private media at the expense of the public interest and the party ownership of the public service broadcasting, through the "Black" and the establishment of the NERIT party. In June 2013, ERT was closed in an extreme, authoritarian way to defend their political purposes and the commemorative quota of redundancies, on behalf of the troika. At the same time, the illegally operating private stations, with the tolerance of the state - you can see Decision 3578/2010 of the Council of State on this - not only remained open, not only were they receiving loans in contrast to their injurious elements, but also constituted DIGEA and became providers, in full breach of the law, even though they themselves constituted content providers. They did not, however, count on the ERT workers themselves, who gave a great and unselfish democratic struggle, through the ERT Open, through the support of the solidarityrs, through the support of the Greek people. And, above all, they did not count on the overwhelming support of the Greek people in the struggle for ERT workers. The Greek people clearly did not trust the pathogenous ERT, but opposed the "black" from a deep faith in democracy. Today, then, we are going from black to democracy, authoritarianism and manipulation to the first democratic restoration in this area. And we must continue by restoring the public interest, the independence of information by state and private authorities, defend democracy and restore justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr. Skuma. Mr Meikopoulou has the floor for six minutes and Mr Constantine Dermitzakis is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the most important aspects of this bill have been said. So I cannot resist temptation and do not go back on some previous speeches and stand in particular on it, otherwise, my dear fellow Member of Parliament, Mr Bukouros, who - among other things - denounced the regional station of ERA Volos that during the pre-election period he did not invite candidates from PASOK and New Democracy or other parties, other than SYRIZA, and that this is also a reason to prove that the new ERT will have a privileged relationship with the ruling party. So in order to restore the truth, we must stress that the regional station of NRA Volos, in the election campaign, sent a call, electronic and press release to all parties that then had candidates and went down to the elections. The only candidates who did not honour the station with their presence were the candidates of the New Democracy, who, for once, have repudiated the work of these people. And from this step in the House I would like to say that the people of the regional station of Magnesia, NRA Volos, deserve many congratulations, because the struggle they gave in a very hostile environment succeeded and maintained the objective information in Magnesia at very high levels. What we cannot understand even today is that the MPs of the Civilian Opposition, but also at that time of the government, cannot understand how a sectoral struggle has been transformed in a very short time into a struggle for the whole civil defence of the public good of informing and defending democracy itself. Because, friends and friends of parliament, the defence of public and independent ERTs in fact also defends the highest ideal of democracy. Because an objective, multi-speaking ERT actually is the mirror of a society, but also the mirror of the democratic level of a society. This is not the case for Officer Representation Members to understand until today. It is not a sectoral claim. We're not just repairing a job injustice. In fact, we are reintroducing ERT to its proper polyphony, independent, impartial position. No one has forgotten exactly what was achieved two years ago by an act of legislation which did not justify urgency. Nor was the defence of national interest established anywhere. But that day the Greek people realized something else that the external checks were considered to be enforceable and directly enforceable. In other words, the social interests, the interests of Greek citizens were constantly negotiated by a Greek government. So this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is, in my view, an incision to the operation of public television and public radio. It restores the injustices and uncertainties of the past by laying the new foundations for the operation of a modern quality, democratic and multi-speaking body for Greek society, with a number of measures that suit those of the other countries of the European Union. I don't want to dwell on the articles or say anything more. My colleagues from the government have analysed them with very great adequacy. I mean the following. The reopening of the ERT was our pre-election commitment. If we can be accused today by the Qualified Opposition that our election commitment is being done today. But we don't just live in it. We are modernising it, upgrading it qualitatively, bringing it back to the citizen. Today, then, public television and radio for all citizens is coming back, with the objective of objective and equal information, away from the former practice, which wanted public information on the basis of the relevant government. The 'black', ladies and gentlemen, now belongs to the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u155	Madam President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u156	Have a seat, please. Thank you, Mr. Micopulus. I had announced Mr. Dermijaki. But my colleague wants the floor on personal grounds, and I think he deserves it. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u157	He's obviously misinformed. He mentioned my speech. What I stressed is that, for the period after the elections, colleagues who run the NRA station in Volos did not consider it necessary to invite me. Not that I had any peculiar misery, my dear colleague. I pointed it out to stress that the participation of workers in an administration of public service broadcasters in itself is not a sufficient condition for objectivity, pluralism and pluralism. Neither for e-mails before the elections nor for invitations. But what other need, ladies and gentlemen, do we have proof after my fellow Member's speech here and his encouragement to the Minister responsible for all the ERT workers, why did they help with SYRIZA's electoral prevalence? In all the media, this statement by the Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Minister, is being played. Is that what we want for the new public service broadcaster?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u158	The staff to what is it now? I get your last report. But now what you're doing isn't personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u159	Should all our political friends and those who helped with SYRIZA's election take care of themselves?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u160	Good. You're done, Mr. Buquoir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u161	I'm sorry, I asked for the floor on personal grounds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u162	But on staff, you'll talk about you, not something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u163	He made a detailed report in my name and what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u164	Yeah, but you're going to report to what he's used to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u165	In two seconds, I'd be done. I am strengthening my argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u166	Whatever he gave you personally, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u167	What is the need for other evidence, following the speech by the colleague of the Co-Place who called for all political friends of SYRIZA to be settled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u168	Be well, Mr. Bucoore. Mr Dermitzakis has the floor for six minutes and Mrs Stavoulis Aphroditis is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, what has been said before is incomprehensible. Those who have been instreaters and prefederals of the rosphete, the client state, behaved here to the honorers. This theater of irrationality must sometime stop. Because hypocrisy has surpassed these days from the Opposition and especially from the New Democracy and the PASOK, also assisted by the Potami. Cresent hypocrisy, this could have been the title in this theater of irrationality that they are really trying to set up. Because it really needs unbelievable political courage to appear as honorers, those responsible for the destruction they caused in the country and the people. And not only for the destructive policies of the last five years, why don't we forget, ladies and gentlemen, that these groups have been ruling and have created for forty years a hydro-head, atheist-centric, customer-structured state in corruption, opacity, tax-driven people. They dismantled the productive fabric, particularly in the rural economy, so that the country is not foodly self-sufficient, while at the same time the excessive, asymmetrical lending that has been channelled into the consumption of imported products has turned the country into a debt colony. The last Memorandum of Understanding arranged to hand over a country with a tight neck loop and huge economic dead ends. And now, on this lunar landscape that they created, they appear as magicians on stage, blaming a three-month government that struggles at all levels, at all lengths and backs, to keep the people and the country standing by saying that the new Greek government is responsible for the tragicity of the situation. Of course, with all that you don't convince anyone, that's for sure. But the reality is quite different. You're screaming, gentlemen, because we're not like you. You blame us for resisting, because we do not suffer, contrary to you who have been willing and obedient disciples and executors of orders. We respect the people's mandate and the values we serve. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that our people have been immersed in a humanitarian crisis that has come as a result of the disastrous memorial policies. The country is now at the most critical turning point in its modern history. It is an unspeakable economic war in the interests that this government wishes to fail, a brief parenthesis to the barbarity of neoliberal policy and the Memorandumary cheque. One would really expect from the parties that led the country to this disaster, in the face of the criticality of the situation, in the face of the criticality of the moments, while survival, the future of the people and of the country are at stake, to make their own self-criticism and to join the national effort. Instead of what do we see? They continue the electoral, dangerous catastrophe, the dangers, the bulging of the negotiating power and the strong government's attitude, and the attempt to secure our country's liquidity and cash reserves so that the Greek State is consistent with its obligations towards its citizens and to support the social goods that had been levelled up in previous years. This climate that I describe has been seen and transferred to both meetings and to plenary. So, at this time when we are discussing the draft law on the reopening of the ERT, we are reminded of those terrible moments that the last Memorandum, throwing black on the screens and information, tried to destroy democracy, free voice, free information. The grand movement of workers at the ERT, the support of the people and support for their fair struggle were one of the most important moments in the history of the movement against neoliberal barbarism, against the logic of subjection and dependency. It was a shocking struggle for workers, who kept with superhuman efforts twenty-two months alive ERT and gave lessons of correct and free journalism. Today ERT reopens, without the sins of the past, without the pathogens, customer relations, sinful contracts, without provocative privileges and astronomical wages of big business directors, aiming at pluralist, independent information to the service of culture. We are particularly pleased that the old title of ERT returns. It is a symbol of struggle and resistance, and it marks the government's political will to return the unjustly dismissals, who have been made redundant, to restore their working rights. And it's a decisive response to those who think we're just going to keep running a rotten client system. It is a restoration of dignity and pride of all Greeks. In our memory, the phrase "silence deep" and the sensational image, when the teared people of the Musical Ensembles, with real emotion, sang the National Anthem, the Anthem toward Freedom. Today ERT is reopening. The life of all Greeks, who blackped with the memorials and barbarism, blooms back and becomes brighter. Ladies and gentlemen, we honour our commitments and our programme, approved by our people. We honor the people's mandate. We draw our strength and determination from the love and support of our people, who perceive what you, ladies and gentlemen, cannot understand or do not want to understand: our country is no longer Europe's proverb. We are moving forward courageously and decisively. You're the past. From tomorrow, in the face of one-sided directed information and the parrots of the system media will be pluralism, correct news reports, the high level of public broadcasting in the service of our people. The course for restoring democracy and dignity began and you cannot, however much as you cry, no matter how dangerous you are, stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Dermitzakis. Mrs Aphrodite Stavoulis has the floor for six minutes and Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou Chryssolou must be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that after what has already been said, it is almost impossible to begin with. But allow me to go back to these twenty-three months that have passed since the closure of the ERT was announced within one afternoon. Instead of finding the ERT closed, it was found flooded by people, not only the ERT of Agia Paraskevi and the ERT3 of Thessaloniki but also every regional radio station of the NRA. Because there was a feeling that if this triple memorial calamity that governs us today can make TV not to play because it so suits its patrons in and out of the country, tomorrow may make the faucet not to run or bus not to pass, to serve any interests. This thought mobilised thousands of people throughout the territory, people who, until then, had not been the course of one or two kilometres in the night - because the radio stations of the NRA usually lie on the edge of the city and the antennas even longer - nor the overnight guarding of occupied facilities with long stay outdoors. Yet, for weeks and months, citizens and citizens have tried to save the public good of information, entertainment and access to culture for them and the right to work for them and, in the meantime, one was revealing the intentions of the government which served this provocative action. He fed the molecular molecules with two or three thousand fresh redundancies, gave a few days later the digital frequencies almost free in the quasi-carteel of "DIGEA" - which did not cover more than 90% of the territory, as it had to, but much less, and that is why there are complaints from everywhere - while various "digitals" children benefited from what they had anticipated. If you remember, even imitation of the magazine "RADIOTELATION" was released in a week. However, the workers and workers continued to emit both the citizens and the citizens continued to support them both at ERT here and at ERT 3 in Thessaloniki and at every NRA in the region. And they continued to emit even after the night that the MATs evacuated the building in Agia Paraskevi, abused citizens and citizens, MPs and MPs, and passed handcuffs on the Chancellor, just a few days before that day when we honoured the other Chancellor, the one who broke the tank. They continued to emit through ERT Open, through ERT 3 that failed to evacuate the MATs, through every regional NRAs that we watched and hosted, despite the adversities, truly multi-speaking, echoing what was happening in society and real civilization. This function and these bodies restores today's bill, even giving a role through the Social Control Boards of the Programme in society, which proved to be worthy of this role. However, rather than listening to the opposition - the Civic Opposition is still missing - a word of remorse, a word of remorse, 'all of us making mistakes', which seems to be guarded for other ears, we have been listening for two days to flirts of party control on the one hand, for conflicting interests on the other, as if we were elected in Parliament, we must support other things than we claimed before. Such a reversal of morality requires special abilities, but also exceptional lack of comprehension, for it to be manifested with such a courage! We are critical of the use of legislative acts to resolve urgent management issues and we hear it from those who, by means of a legislative act, have attempted catalytic intervention in a good protected by the Constitution, such as information, which is why they have not dared to bring it to Parliament. We hear grieves and constellations about the glorious end of the concentration camps, where some made life invisible to innocent people, leaving them undernourished, free of soap and no medicine - well, no medicine left outside - but they had 6 million euros for fifty metal households of ten seats. What should we expect, however, from those who say that the American embassy should decide on what disability rate the prisoners and the German Ministry of Labour will pay the pensionable pension for the workers on Greek territory? We also hear the complaint that workers who will be re-occupied are particularly sympathetic to SYRIZA. You, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, in their place, if you'd suffered what happened to them, who would you like, really? Finally, we hear the criticism that an unrelated amendment is being introduced to the vote, which abolishes the increase in the electricity price, which was arbitrarily imposed by the Energy Regulatory Authority, by increasing the unit charges for the specific charge for the reduction of emissions of pollutants. If speakers and spokesmen had visited even a occupied NRA all this time and listened to the workers and workers saying 'We were cut off by the phone and we are getting by the cell phones, but with the current to see what we can do', they could feel how much the amendment has to do with our subject, even indirectly, and to vote in favour of it, let alone if people knew about the free supply programme. They will not, however, do so, because there is a real conflict of interest here, which I hope will prove to be just classics and not something more special for some and some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Aphrodite Stavoulis. Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou Chryssolula has the floor for six minutes and Mr Dimitrios Gassis is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today it is not just an injustice that is being restored. It restores a huge institutional unrest of the previous government. They still sound in our ears the words of ERT's editor when black midnight, like thieves go into the Radio Memorial of Agia Paraskevi. Welcome back, Middle Ages! It was like the Middle Ages had come. We remember violence, wood, handcuffs, padlocks, black on our screens. In those days Greece was the only country in the world that managed this paradox: the world was watching and listening to the broadcasts of public broadcasting, the broadcasts of the only legitimate broadcaster of a pan-Hellenic range, not from public frequencies but from ERT Open, from left.gr, from the press project.gr and other alternative media. I spoke about the only legitimate broadcaster except for Attica's licensed radios. I'm not saying that. It is said by the lecturer of Constitutional Law Mr. Akritas Kaidatzis in an article he had written in those days. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Chrysula Katsavria - Sioropoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The days and the "black" were passed on the screen, he exhibited you internationally. We also expected the Greek Presidency of the European Union and had to present something. You have not even implemented the decision of the Committee of Suspensions of the Council of State. You had to somehow show that it works, even unlucky, or even substantiatedly, even wrong a public broadcasting system. And he became NERIT! So what did we find in the ERT position? A nameless broadcasting, even amateurs who had set it up, would be better, a TV with a poor program and even poorer percentages of repetition and bad broadcasts, a TV that nobody saw, a television that was not threatening the audience of private channels, the channels that so supported you and so support you. In only one part you did not show amateurism on the propaganda side. That's where you turned out to be professionals. We remember on the eve of NERITA parliamentary elections not to pass an election conference on SYRIZA. We remember breaking any suspicion of journalistic independence and ethics when Mr Samaras was basically interviewing himself with two - supposedly journalists following him. On the other hand, the self-managing free ERT taught morals, dignity, journalism and ethics. I'm saying this to prove what I said at the beginning of my position. Rehabilitates an institutional unrest. We are not reconstructing ERT to restore just a few wronged employees. It's a matter of substance. We restore democracy, pluralism, information and culture. We'll never see journalists do tennis again to the Prime Minister. Never on public TV! We are not going to see a devalued public broadcasting, which gives private channels free to perpetuate information. The seasons of the guided television have passed. That is why we are abolishing the fundamental donor supervisory board, we are establishing transparent procedures for the promotion of the institutions and we are establishing employee participation in the management board. But we do not guarantee government union. We do not want the trade unions to deal with the government and the administration of the ERT. That's why the employees' representatives on the board. They will be selected by themselves rather than by PROPERT. The times when the trade unions had lisverism and exercised command have passed. Others, trade unions and workers' rights struggles, and management. By breaking this relationship, the trade union claim and the ERT itself is being upgraded. Ladies and gentlemen, we need public broadcasting. We need ERT film nights, Greek productions, documentaries, second and third programs. Finally, we need to make use of the valuable historical archive of the ERT, to reopen regional radio stations, to replay our musical ensembles. In particular, it is necessary for regional stations to be informed of local issues not to be monopolized by private stations. It is necessary to highlight local cultural activity, which often, although extremely rich, is underestimated. That is why we are voting in favour of the bill. However, the battle for uninterrupted information, transparency and the defence of public interest does not stop here. The government has already announced initiatives to regulate the status of television licences. Over the years there has been a hierarchy of public frequencies, an occupation against which none of the other honors of law and order have been mobilised. The government has proved to be messing with it. He proved this last week when he first carried out checks and revenues against the elite of interlocutory. It will prove it and then, when the channels finally pay the money they owe the Greek public. The new ERT will speak in the minds and hearts of the Greeks. That will be our justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u174	We are also grateful for the proper use of time. Mr Dimitris Gatis has the floor and Mr Kyriazides is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today ends the 'black', closes a deep wound to the body of democracy and restores the workers made redundant of the ERT, who at night saw their heads on the plate to meet the demands of the troika. For two years ERT workers made redundant in a touching manner have been able under truly difficult conditions to give a long-term fight to defend dignity, information, culture, a long-term fight to defend democracy and the Constitution. The self-management experiment of ERT has shown that when workers in public bodies decide to take the case in their hands and are assigned to them, then the myth of the "wrong" official is destroyed, then the real potential of people is blossom, become productive, act collectively and in solidarity and the good produced returns to the society in which it belongs. That's how workers in ERA Rhodes have worked for the past twenty - three months. It is an ERT regional station that resisted the "black" and, under very difficult conditions, it continued to broadcast its program to the last of the Aegean, so that the Greek language does not get lost by the radio band, so that our frequencies from other countries are not taken over. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] The previous government and the administration of NERITT's structure have tried very hard to shake down the radio station. Up to the current of PPC was cut about four months ago, resulting in the facilities of NRA Rhodes, without the necessary lighting and the operation of the alarm, to remain unprotected and become easy smoother hands of burglars. She risked a fortune that her only owner is the Greek people, a record that encloses culture, voices of great people, sounds of traditional organs, unique recordings that echo the story of the Dodecanese for the last sixty years. Maybe the goal was not ERT or the workers, but our memory, our collective memory. A national, social and precious heritage that is moved, sensitizes and eventually mobilizes society, has its roots in 1954, withdrew to Rhodes. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we have to vote on obeys the central requirement not only of workers but also of the same Greek society for public radio and television, independent of the state, parties and other centres of public or economic power. ERT must be open to society. It will be controlled by society and it will be apologised in society. We want an ERT that won't remind nothing of the vicious model of the past. We want an independent ERT. We want an ERT that will release its employees. We want an ERT in which society will recognize its needs and hierarchies. A ERT that will serve information, pluralism, culture and democracy. We want an ERT with all its structures. We want an ERT that treats citizens equally, without discrimination. We want the regional stations to be reopened. Each regional station must ensure quality, objective information, protection of pluralism and the production of culture. To be fully linked to the local nature in the presentation of the social, economic, political, cultural and sport activity in the regions and to highlight the specific nature of this region. The ERT of our dreams will be the ERT that will emit again in all corners of Greece, in all Greeks of the diaspora, information and culture. In "black" we respond with light. Abundant light, so that the "grey" does not appear at all. Ladies and gentlemen, it is two years since that dawn day that the Greek people heard that creepy "the government decided to close the ERT", gaggling democracy. Yesterday the Greek people heard the hopeful "the government decided to open the ERT" and remove the murmur from democracy. You, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, put the muzzle in democracy. We remove it. You booked schools, sending teachers to availability, and you opened prisons. We're the ones with our last bills, we're opening up the schools you've booked, and we're closing the prisons and hellholes you've opened. You drowned Manos Hajidaki's music and voice. We want his voice and his strong message to be heard again through the hertzians. He said Manos Hatzidakis and we should remember: "No system will promise you your freedom. There's no such system. They lied to you. You will always increasingly claim what you are denied, based on your fatigue, with only a few exceptions. But, with the exceptions, the world is moving on. Those of you who endure will take a step further forward." It's a legacy of Manos Hajidaki in the vision of every people who wants to have hope. These, ladies and gentlemen, are some of our main political differences. Unfortunately, the Greek people have understood them for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Gaki. Mr Paul Paul Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u177	May I speak from my position, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u178	Sure, you can. Guys, from where we're from, when time is under six minutes. But since speaking time is normally seven or eight minutes, that is why we allow speakers to come to Stepma. If you prefer it, you can be sure. Of course, let me tell you that where you are sitting, you will have a background for the Members of the Group of the European People's Party. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Here you go, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u179	It's all right! Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm really covered. I don't want to say a lot of things, I won't be using all the time. I'd just like to say two things. Today we're reminiscing ERT. We heal one of the largest monumental structures the previous government had done. I personally, like all SYRIZA Members, look forward to the next bill, Minister, which you have already announced, on the licensing of frequencies. I would just like to say one word, because I have covered everything else. I would then like to see the Memorandum and Neoliberal Opposition, if in this bill you will bring, it will do something that it will not do today, namely, to put a roll-call issue. Today he does not raise a question of roll-call vote, because they do not want the Greek people to see them raise their hands and vote against the bill that erases the "black" and which resets the work of two and a half thousand people! They're ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u180	Do you want us to make a denomination?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u181	Don't challenge us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u182	Yeah. Why don't you, Mr. Georgiadis? I would like to see tomorrow - tomorrow - when we put the frequency licensing bill on which every man on his bench will go from 1989 onwards to the public good called frequency - and for them to close ERT so that they can play ball on their own with DIGEA - if the opposition then dares to put a roll-call vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Polakis. Mrs Vassilis Katrivanos also has the floor by SYRIZA. And since Mr. Paulakis only spoke for a minute, Mrs. Catrivanou, you will also have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reopening of ERT is not only a symbolic issue, nor just a topic of information, which is, of course, only a symbolic issue. It is above all a question of democracy and culture. Clearly we lack a cool, sober and quality TV, such as the ERT or the ERT we are going to do. And that's what we see every day. We see it these days with all the terror, demagogy, racism, spread through the channels. I shall refer to the previous period before the disaster, before the deaths in Lambentuza, when the "MEGA" had a spot that called the world, called on the islanders to record what they are pulling from the refugees. This little spot was cut after the Lampedusa dead. But if we want to show what a television should not do, namely how to stimulate fear and raise racism, that is what I am telling you. In other words, if we had a TV that is decent, we could at the moment have a real dimension of the facts with data, with the causes, on the grounds, that we had the international dimensions of the facts, the whole range of opinions, not only what SYRIZA says. Alas! We would show the human tragedy of refugees and the human side in a way that humanizes and does not demonize. Not immoral, but with the stories of people, situations and feelings of both immigrants and refugees and residents. There would also be concern and fear and cases of racism, but clearly all the suffering of people's experience. Because care would be how to promote solidarity, humanity and social cohesion and to provide solutions to problems, not how to promote racism and terrorism around people. I have just returned with other colleagues and colleagues from the Council of Europe. The majority of the Council of Europe is conservative. No one dares to talk about illegal immigrants - there is not this term - but everyone accepts that at the moment the dominant flow is refugees throughout Europe. The main cause is the depth of wars and tensions, and the Council's objective and resolution were how to save human lives. And that's what I'm telling you, he was one of the preservatives. There was no one who dared to say something against saving human lives and not accepting that it is a European issue and that they are refugees. We have passed resolutions which could not be understood by the Vice-Presidents of the Com mittee on Civil Liberties. Resolutions on Syrian refugees, on how responsibility should be shared directly, how we should strengthen the asylum we give here. It was more focus. No crown "Greece - attraction - magnet - illegal immigrants"! And, after all, the moral lesson is "hey, let them and drown!" It is not the rest of Europe as a whole, at least, and certainly not the Council of Europe. Accordingly, we have lived through this here on the subject of the very important law on penitentiary. A very good bill for people from vulnerable groups, disabled, ill, minors. What's left in the media? The Xero bill and all the terror about it. No relationship, that is to say, with reality. That is why we really need public television objective and sober, which does not evaporate passions in such a way. The opening of ERT, public service broadcasting, for us, is not only a pre-election promise by the SYRIZA that we honour and a commitment to workers. It is primarily our commitment to society and an act that serves information, democracy and culture. And finally, we consider that with this act the information is reinstated to find its lost soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. Mr Christos Simorellis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u186	Thank you, Madam President. I've been covered in a lot of things, but let me take the floor, break the trake, because it's the first time I've been talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u187	Welcome!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u188	Welcome!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u189	I would ask you, Madam President, to do something: of course the parliamentarians will speak, but we Members will also have the floor. This is the fourth time I've tried. I finally made it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u190	The perpetual victor always wins, Mr. Simereli.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important that the Greek Parliament passes the bill on the establishment and operation of the public service broadcaster, ERT. As this government promised, this bill achieves the reintroduction of the good of public information, at the same time restoring a great injustice: On June 11, 2013, that day that was a disgrace for democracy, the government and now anti-democraticism, in the most undemocratic and vulgar way, decided to throw the black into ERT, depriving Greek citizens of historical public television and putting hundreds of workers in unemployment. With a weapon of violence, repression and tactics that match the authoritarian regimes, you imposed this sad and embarrassing incident. Following the method of sudden death you have plunged the future not only of workers but also of their families. Today, twenty-two months after this vigilance of information, twenty-two months after the grand struggle of the ERT workers, who have held up the honour and dignity of the public service broadcaster, there is at last the vindication. The Radiomaker's door in Agia Paraskevi will be opened again. So you told us, ladies and gentlemen, that ERT is a state-owned man, that it has a sinful past, that it is a state and not a public one. So here, let us ask ourselves: Which governments did ERT take such a form and who are to blame for it? I'm sure it's not the workers who paid the price. It is the constant tactic of the neoliberal economic dogma to depreciate public goods. The downgrading of their real value and then either their restriction to the private sector or, as has been done elsewhere, their sale. Moreover, anyone who opposes your irrationality is called a'stater'. If we follow this doctrine, we will soon pay rent for the air we breathe. Our government, which has the culture and values of the Left, will protect public goods in every way. The message is clear: The elections on 25 January gave a very clear mandate to the government and to our Prime Minister for the end of the memorandum, for the development of social cohesion through tough negotiation, and now is the time to do that. We want to highlight the responsibilities of those who have implemented the austerity policies in the last five years who have created social ruins and the need to turn the country into a sustainable way of development, making major changes and progressive reforms that will make Greece an equal and respected Member State - a Member State of Europe and the euro area. The ERT 'black' belongs to the ruins. The new, independent and hand-held ERT, which will have the voice of workers and society, which is really independent and respecting the good of information, is one of these progressive reforms. So, within each citizen's rights, it is the right to be informed. We want this ERT. The ERT we want will not have the pathogens of the past, the party criteria and the undeclared choices. It will be a transparent body, where the governors will be socially acceptable, which will emerge through consultation and not painted in party colour, as was the case in the past. All workers made redundant will be exploited in this ERT. They won't fly down the street like the previous government did. We want public broadcasting with a programme that competes with audience and viewing private channels, but with an upgraded and quality programme. We want a broadcast that will also have revenue, which will produce value, entertainment, inform and form a core of civilization that is landed in society and the citizen. In this light, I am delighted to support this restoration of democracy, returning to my fellow citizens a good that has been unfairly deprived. To conclude, I would like to close by reassuring colleagues from the previous government, and to tell them that our concept of public goods is far from theirs. No mistakes of the past will be repeated, because we value the safeguarding of these goods, at the same time that you want everything to be done privately. So the success of ERT is primarily a matter of ideology, values and political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr Simorellis, for having kept an exemplary year. For the first time you've done great. The next speaker is Mr George Psychogios from SYRIZA. Here comes Mr. Dimitris Hillis from the Ministerial Council, who has tabled something he wants to inform us about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today without any doubt restores democracy and justifies the fight of the ERT's sacked and a grand movement that has been developed around them. It is precisely this consequence of what we had in the election, which we have said and which is the step that is taking, which is annoying and hovering, while a multitude of mass media gather their fires, each trying to distort their content and disorientate the world. With regard to this draft law, it is stated that it aims first of all to create an ERT which will provide pluralist and objective information to foreign media standards, taking advantage of the example of ERT Open, which gave us very important experiences. It is in the hands of the workers and the administration, as well as an obligation for all of us to exercise this required social control and to contribute to the utilization of pieces of this very rich deposit. In this context, all the voices, self-government bodies, citizens' movements, unions, small and medium-sized businessmen and their initiatives, as well as the representatives of all the parties of Parliament and of the European Parliament with an emphasis on thematics and claims of the peoples of Europe and the world that do not receive adequate publicity. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I will also present a personal experience from my speeches so far to the ERT Open, where I can observe that the objectivity of the presentation by journalists, the level of questions and the lively disagreements on the basis of arguments and principles shows the way forward and the new ERT. Through the agreement of principles to be signed between ERT and the Greek state, there will be specific obligations and commitments to ensure the independence of ERT, as developed by our rapporteur. At the same time, the end of PPC corresponding to ERT is below the European Union average, as is the number of staff of that body. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to stress that those who have led to the depreciation of ERT and other public enterprises, because they have been treated as their property, cannot criticise the role and functioning of the public sector in general. This is their understanding of the state and not of the public interest, which includes access for all to specific rights, such as education, health, culture and quality information. Also, those who threw the "black" into the ERT cannot speak of darkness and some other things about SYRIZA. They have been enthusiasts of darkness and this is also marked by their scandalous favors over the years to the media big-owners. And they also have the courage to talk about the low viewing of the ERT, while the way they function - uncontrollablely, that is - private media created unfair competition, while with their clienteles they consciously undermined ERT's dynamics. But there have also been other voices, such as those from the Potamian Members, who have anticipated the failure of the new body with two arguments. Firstly, because the new ERT does not clearly adopt - it says - private economic criteria in its operation, as if information and information are a commodity and not a social asset and a right - or that ERT does not have to serve the public interest, whether in the area of the programme provided or in the creation of the digital signal, covering the entire country and Hellenism. Secondly, because the reintegration of ERT officials serves the interests of workers and not the interests of the citizens. What kind of logical jump is that, colleagues? It is probably the argument of bad civil servants and good citizens, but not in their capacity as real, aristotle, but in the unique capacity that some, at least, seem to recognize them, that of the consumer. In conclusion, I would like to point out that there are also issues pending around the ERT, Minister, and are not dealt with as a whole and adequately with this draft law. We need to deepen and promote other actions and provisions which deal with the following: the digitisation of the ERT and the break-up of the DIGEA monopoly, while controlling the existing contracts. The use of ERT's property and infrastructure for the benefit of the public, the municipalities and the society. The immediate reopening of regional stations. The deepening of Article 14 of this House, where there is a gap in the rights of workers, linked to the revitalization of their contracts and their time of service. This should be dealt with with with relevant CSR, Minister, shortly. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this government continues to implement its programme with errors, failures and omissions, but it is making targeted moves, has insisted, taking steps forward, too difficult and extortioning from within and outside. Our knowledge is the interests of all those who have tried to marginalize or make past the previous governments. With them we move forward, with the victories and defeats and experiences of movements. We are accountable to them and we will continue to claim with them. Because this country, ladies and gentlemen, and we all know it very well, has an excellent potential, with great appetite and dignity, which does not stop fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyo. Mr. Kostas Zouraris has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u195	Madam President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u196	You're right, Minister. Mr. Zurari, I'm sorry. I had previously announced the Minister. Then I will give you the floor. Mr. Dimitris Militaryis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have actually had to table an amendment three hours ago on a matter with which you all agree. And yesterday and today too many Members of Parliament, all of them, have asked me to do so. It is about the time-limit, the extension, the time-limit for adjusting the debts to the insurance funds. In recent days - and this is a happy fact - despite the difficulties of our people, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, there has been a great deal of attendance to respond to this regulation and with images, in fact, that we see from television, such as pushes, etc., in order to be able to respond and give money to the insurance funds. Let me tell you that the flows - four weeks kept this arrangement, were short in time compared to the previous one - the first week was two and a half thousand a day - those who were going to make adjustments - the second week was four thousand a day, the third week was five and a half thousand and this week we have fifteen thousand a day. With the staff, however, the branches cannot respond. There was a request from Members of all the parties. And I cannot tell you how many dozens of calls I have received today from Members - who have not taken it out of their minds, have the pressure from the citizens they represent - and from all associations of businesses, etc., from the trade unions concerned and from the trade unions concerned. After that, even at the last hour I have tabled this amendment, although you know that I have a particular sensitivity, like the Bureau and the President of Parliament - and, quite rightly, in my opinion - to the fact that the ministers should not table late amendments. However, it was no other way because there was no other bill in the next few days and, unfortunately, the deadline expires on Thursday. Until now it's gone very well. In other words, this crowd of people to respond is also in numbers. I would like to inform the House that a debt of around EUR 3 billion has been set within four weeks. They've come up until this time when I'm talking to you over a hundred thousand debtors and we've already collected a hundred instalments - around 65 million euros. This regulation has gone very well, and it has also been the reason why I have had to bring this amendment and, above all, without too much stress, in the sense that it does not solve issues of substance, it simply extends a regulation which has been voted on - and I remember it unanimously - by the Greek Parliament. Therefore, Madam President, that was why I had to bring this amendment. I would also like to thank the Bureau and the President for agreeing to table this amendment in these particular circumstances. What we are doing - and I am ending - is to give an extension by 2 June, so that everyone can meet their obligations. I think we're good and everyone agrees. Also, because it is extended by one month, it goes without saying that the dues are adjusted for another month, for March, and therefore those with late payment can go up to 1 April 2015 and not up to 1 March until now. I mean, it's being given and it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u198	Some criteria change...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u199	The criteria...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u200	I'm sorry, Minister. Mr. Theochari, listen. The procedure is this: Ask to interrupt to ask. The interrupter consents. In addition, Mr Solana is renowned for his democracy and for his consensual character. So get up, take the floor, interrupt, ask and he'll answer. But to be recorded and not to have a café image.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u201	Thank you. I would like a very small clarification. Can you tell us if the criteria in the OAU also change a little by means of this amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u202	I'll tell you. As far as the OAU is concerned, yes, because its own administration has asked for it with a great deal of insistence. While it was up to now that if you delayed a month in the 12-month period, you lost control, they told us that if this were the case, many would go to the arrangement to get insurance, as you know, information, but in the course of the course they would go. So we were asked to be able to delay up to three instalments, and they simply told us to put a 0.25% interest rate, so that this world could be facilitated. It was always a request, and I think it's right. No one is against making it easier - particularly at this time - for self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises to respond. It is within the logic of the law that we have all passed together, and it is only for the self-employed, as you have seen, because they have this particular problem, especially in these critical years. In any case, the possibility of delaying a dose was allowed. They just became three so they could respond better. Now I wanted to give a clarification, because the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative informed me that he referred to the issue of the AAR, the fund for the new generation, and that he criticised the use of this money to support the insurance funds. One clarification I would like to give, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a clarification which I gave to him personally. It is not about the big account, EUR 3.1 billion, which is in the Bank of Greece's special chapter, and no one touches it, and no one must touch it until 1-1-2019, as the law says, for the new generations. It is about extending the possibility of the Minister of Labour - and the previous ones had it up to 31-12-2014 - if deficits occur in funds either by the main or subsidiary insurance, using two sub-accounts which are in the reserve account - they are not in the Bank of Greece's common capital, they are invested in government repos - to cover these deficits. The purpose of these accounts, smaller accounts, sub-accounts by law, is to cover main-security deficits, because they are from employee contributions to their main pension and the second subsidiary fund, because they are employee contributions to them. This use was made by the previous Minister. I was also publicly responsible at the time of SYRIZA for the workplace, and I said "he did well". He had used him in December 2014 to cover an exceptional deficit of the EUPM 100 million and 50 million for the EIB in the supplementary pension. Therefore, if it is used, it will be towards the end of the year and if the same problems arise. It is precisely this possibility that is being extended. To clarify this, I have also spoken with the previous Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsi, and I have informed him of the content of this amendment. He's not in this bill. However, because he informed me that he asked the question himself, I just want to give him this clarification for this House as well. I therefore ask for all the political forces to vote in favour of this amendment which serves hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u203	Madam President, may I ask the Minister something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u204	Do you agree, Minister, to interrupt for a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u205	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u206	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u207	Minister, because you referred to the self-employed previously, are you thinking of some relief in current instalments? The information says they will not manage and stop paying the instalments, because, even with the speeds we have put in, there are large amounts in the month and we have requests for either freezing or even lower step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u208	What I said to Mr Theochari is true. In other words, in order to facilitate them first, we have allowed them, instead of one within the twelve-month period, to be able to delay three. That is the first measure. Secondly, we had voted in the law that is also mentioned in my amendment and set three features. First, the hundred doses with the deletions, etc. or deletions of fees and fines or if you pay a single 100% of the fines. The second thing we had done was decriminating for the self-employed, because they are their own contributions to their own insurance fund which were in force by law of 1967 of the junta. The third possibility we have given them, in order to cope with the current contributions, was to be able to go three insurance grades lower than their monthly contribution, i.e. EUR 131 less a month, so that current contributions can be lowered and that they can respond. The fact that 50 thousand self-employed have been here so far breaks all the records. With the previous regulation, which was very good, and I am talking about the last regulation, there were thirty thousand in four and a half months and it was a great success. And it was. Right now within the month, fifty thousand self-employed have come and arranged. So the triple opportunity that we have given, plus this opportunity that Mr Theocharis asked me, we think it will make it easier for many more people to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u209	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u210	Wait a minute, Mr. Style. We said there was a procedure. Do you, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u211	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u212	You have the floor, Mr Stylian, if the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u213	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to point out to you what you are talking about in the regulations concerning the insured persons of the EUPM the following: The pensioners of the EUPM who owe them are not included in the regulation. So, if you want to see and correct it, you should also include pensioners in the favourable arrangements, so that they receive a lower dose in what is retained from their pensions until they pay back what they have to pay. I would like to point out that in the amendment on tax debt arrangements, pensioners are included, but they were not provided for here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u214	You're absolutely right. We will bring an amendment in a timely manner within 15 days. I also pledge to the President of this House that it will be timely. We've been preparing it for several days now, in consultation with GSE and SEE. I have asked the OAU's administration to make me such a proposal. There will not be a hundred doses, but what they ask for themselves, a set-off with their pension. In other words, it will be detained in one quarter of the pension provided by the law, so that the fund can get some money from some who would never get it, but also themselves to retire it. It's about thousands of prisoners who owe over 20,000 euros, which is the OAU limit, according to which, if you owe more than that, you can't get the pension. I believe that, in consultation with the trade unions, but I also think with a good dialogue all the political forces can give us a solution to decapitate themselves. I know the content of this arrangement, but I do not think it is right to say it today. I think it's going to be a solution. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u215	Mr Minister, thank you for explaining the reasons for the amendment. Of course, you know that under normal circumstances a late amendment cannot be accepted. But here, as you said, there is a resounding desire for the political forces to have this facility, which is also beneficial to the people who are insured. But I would like to confirm that this is indeed the case. You did, of course, and I do not question your word. However, since the representatives of the parties are here, I would like there to be a record of how the parties are placed in relation to this amendment. It is precisely because this bill, as we said at the Conference of Presidents, needs to be voted on at night, so that the process can be started and the ERT starts, we have to accept as a Parliament that this amendment is accepted and that we will proceed to the vote on the whole, since, of course, the Services previously incorporate and distribute the text, as we have done in the first bill. I would therefore ask the representatives of the parties to put themselves in a few minutes if there is no objection. Mr. Georgiadis, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u216	The New Democracy is in favour of Mr Army's amendment. We are voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u217	Mr. Rabbit, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u218	We agree, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u219	Mr. Theochari, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u220	It agrees with the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u221	And SYRIZA agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u222	I bypassed SYRIZA. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u223	Absolutely, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u224	I would ask you to express your opinion as well. I don't want to fall back on that kind of a manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u225	We agree, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u226	The PASOK Parliamentary Representative has the floor. Do you agree with the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u227	PASOK agrees with the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u228	Mr Gioka, do you agree with the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u229	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u230	One of the Independent Greeks is Mr. Zouraris, who will tell us in his speech that he agrees. Mr. Nikolaopoulos will be here anyway. I think I have not omitted any parliamentary group. It therefore unanimously agrees that this amendment will, by way of derogation, be accepted, even in the event of delay, and will be put to the vote in the whole evening. Mr. Zurari, you're the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u231	Madam President, my respects. Minister, there's no need for a bidding when there's a "Minister", but I'll make an exception for you. I will prosecute you with a terminology from the great, founding texts of our secretariat, from the Acts of the Apostles, from the Gospel, that is, yes, "comrade, Minister". It's from the Acts of the Apostles. Today we have had an exemplary teaching of television, what public television should be and temporarily private from Constantine Tsukalas. We have had an exemplary teaching, which is truly commendable and I will try to continue with some elements. Madam President and a chosen body of the genus, in my other valley - which is not a motherfather, it is a glance - that in France there is one, as they say, a booklet of obligations, a cahier de charges, in which they are forced to see that all days of the year are not the same, the ritual of a sanctuary or an inert society are not the same. So, Comrade Minister, it is not possible for these private disgusting channels to be identifiable on the day that, for example, the genus mentions Killere, the founding liberation of our farm, to roam seismines, males, who are stumbled and for their stalking subsystem as if nothing were happening, around their stalk system. It is not possible on the day of the deceased workers of May 1936 in Thessaloniki, ERT3 has a memorial of those tragic and private channels at that time - "My Mayday you hate me, May Day I miss you" - to deal with "hawa" etc. Conclusion. It takes quantum commitments, for example, with co-productions, for example, which must take place among themselves, so that great moments of Greek culture, the Greek society, are included within their programme and not confined to the'medium-time', the 'pre-industrial' and the other 'cod'. So it is undeniable that we are not a scorpowder. The private television will enter the hot doubles of a quadrant in the face of Greek culture. And I want to continue, of course, with what Alexander Triantafylides started today for our ERT, our ERT3 Macedonia and Thrace. Comrade Minister - according to the Acts of the Apostles - since you are now the ones who upset the world, please do not forget my country, do not forget ERT3, that is some selfishness and some possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u232	Mr. Zurari, thank you. I cannot say that this was one of the songs that he was constantly inspiring throughout the ERT game. "Justice has been understood." The next speaker is Mrs Rachel McCree, whom I do not see in the Chamber. The next one is Mrs Liana Canelle, which I also do not see in the Chamber. We'll give them time if they're in the House building and they're coming. The next speaker is Mr George Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u233	Madam President, I'm after Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u234	You are after Mrs. Canelle and then Mr. Amyras, but he gives you his place, because he has spoken again and will speak again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u235	I was before Mr. Defyras, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u236	The list I have is not before Mr. Amyras. Maybe some people are playing with us. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u237	I would like to thank Mr Amyras, anyway - and I thank you, Madam President. I think that, in every bill, and in today, we are renewing our effort to reap not only the government's work, but above all the effort of another perspective, a proposal for a real way out and dignity. There has been criticism, the word 'ENPHIA' has been heard. Listen, gentlemen of Officer Opposition. Recent elections have been held. The New Democracy lost the election mainly for its memorial options. But he lost the election because he made ridiculous politics. And despite the fact that elections were held at the best time - as long as it could be a good time - for you, namely winter, not in a hundred thousand eighteen to vote, with the media machines you lost the election and you have to think about why you lost them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u238	It's none of our business.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u239	You've lost them, Mr. Style! Secondly, we have heard that today's bill is the continuation of NERIT. Indeed, it does not enter "black" in NERIT. But the government is attempting a radical structural restructuring of public television for reliable information. There's an attempt to be consistent with today's bill with NERIT. What does today's bill have to do with the implicity that was imposed on informing the ERT? The Constitution became a rampant card and was set to the detriment of public property, culture and the historical memory of this people. What does the current bill have to do with the thousands of redundancies following the ERT's black one? The "black" in the information of the De-Democrat Hellenism, what does it have to do with today's bill? We oppose it, it says the new era and technology, the new era that begins in 1989. They're leaps to the void, these speeches. No, we don't fight technology, we just nostalgic the ERT of Horn, the ERT of Greek literature that we enjoyed through the sirials of that time. The provision of radio and television programmes is a constitutionally required public service, in the essential and functional sense of the term. And the question was raised: Did the State be a provider or a regulator? You say he's a provider and not a regulator. So anyway, you tell us what international experience tells us. You say that this is how the free market responds and the free market is the one that ensures communication, principles and rules. And you say that the state should be just a regulator. You will allow me to say that this is a selective memory and that it is selective examples from the Western world, where no country is without public television. It also seems to open up a debate on whether it can compete with a public-interest channel with private-sector channels. You answer as you answer. The state, you say, should give its position to the private interests. And this is a selective answer. Occupation of public frequencies is extremely damaging and essentially means selling the country to the canalarchs. You also have a selective answer in relation to ‘DIGEA’. Like good neoliberals who are how do you tolerate such inefficiency? Is there a huge weakness in cover? How do you tolerate that? Why do you spare them? We have responded in a programme and in an election way that the closure of the ERT, in addition to the information in itself, was followed by the exacerbation of immunity and even the raw interference of private channels in the social and political life of the place. We respond that there are fundamental principles that the Constitution itself sets for access to objective information for all citizens and that we must defend without becoming a line of private interests. Today objective information is a weapon that our society has lost, a weapon that would help in the necessary transformation of our society in order to face the crisis at all levels and above all in morality. This transformation, however, cannot be helped by channels fully subordinated to the principles and norms of the fraudulent financial market. So the re-establishment of the ERT does not promote party information or even certain demands of some workers, it does not promote the expression of every time a government, but the need to put a brake on the catalyst of information and broadcasting in our country. Surely the competition that exists from both private channels and the emerging technology, as you mentioned, is not the most practicable ground for ERT to rise. But you did not calculate on this that we are not going to build an ERT state-runner or an ERT of high-paid executives. We are moving forward and we will be able to make, as many people grievous as possible, an ERT not a competitor to the interests and needs of our people, but an ERT to serve them, an ERT which, as much as it will serve the need for objective information and the transformation of our society, will increase its competitiveness in information and entertainment lobbys and so will also oblige them to a necessary and perhaps more beneficial overall for society compromise. The human shield that appeared in the ERT building in June 2013, this popular shield, demanded the opening of the ERT. We, as we were due, heard this popular demand, heard and realised this popular need.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u240	Thank you, Mrs Triantafyllou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that: Under Article 68(2) of the Constitution and Articles 144 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of Inquiry into the conditions and responsibilities which led to Greece being subject to the Memorandum and Surveillance regime and on any other matter relating to the implementation and implementation of the Memorandums was established under No 6249/3967 of 28 April 2015. This committee will be composed of the Members, and so on. Dimitrios Vitsa, Irene (Nina) Kasimatis, Harula (Hara) Kafantari, Panayota Amanatidis - Kozomboli, Konstantinos Lapavitsa, Nektario Santorini, Antonio Syrigo, Georgios Psychogios, Charalampos Athanasios, Savva Anastasiadis, Mavroudis (Maki) Voridis, Christos Stagiouras, Georgios Galeo, Georgios Amyra, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Dimitrios Kammenos, Andreas Loverdos. The committee shall be set up in accordance with the recommendations of the parliamentary groups, which shall be in response to the invitations made by the President. This committee will have the powers and powers laid down in Rules 144 next of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and in the decision of the House on its recommendation. The deadline for the completion of the work of the Committee and for the submission of its findings, given the seriousness of its subject-matter, was set by the plenary Decision of 6 October 2015, allowing for an extension of that deadline. The decision shall be entered in the minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u241	Mr Amyras from the river has the floor. You're also in the committee, so you've been announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said yesterday in my protology, the question of ERT must be seen in connection with the whole broadcasting landscape. The first major step, which is at the core and heart of the changes to be made, is clearly the question of laying down rules for the licensing of radio and television stations. The Minister said so, and we on the river expect this legislative initiative and how. We are prepared to support such an initiative, which will clearly ensure the interests of the Greek state, of the public, of jobs and of course of healthy entrepreneurship. Apart from that, however, the authorisation to go ahead, as I said yesterday, must definitely be linked, in fact, to the legal composition of the National Broadcasting Council. I feel that the President of Parliament has the power of persuasion so that he can find the way to get the increased 4/5 majority for the new members of the PSE. However, the television scene of course is also the channel of the House. A lot of people are watching Parliament's channel. He knows glory. And its existence is very important, it is important for democracy, it is important for parliamentarianism. So I took the initiative yesterday morning and sent a letter to the President of Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, which I would ask her to take account of the detailed information, financial and other, of Parliament's Television Station.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u243	Mr. Amyura, I'm sorry to interrupt you, I think with your consent. It is very interesting, however, that letters from various Members, I inform the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u244	No, I sent it to you in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u245	You need to find a way to address them both to the 'on' and 'to the 'on', that is to say to the addressee. Fortunately, they are making sure that the media are up to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you, when my colleagues told me what time we were giving the letter to a press release - which I will be tabling, and I will tell you what it includes - I said first that she will go to Mrs Constantopoulou's office, make sure she has received it, and then we will get it to the press. Eight o'clock this morning was in your office, I'm telling you honestly, because eight and four I've been talking to my partners. But next time we'll look at being even more meticulous about it. So what do I ask of the letter I tabled to the President of Parliament? I ask for the detailed budgets of Parliament's channel for the next five years, I ask for the course of implementation of the current budget, what the operating costs are, how the workers, how many journalists, how many technicians, how many have they been - if they have them, may people not have them - in how they have been recruited. I have called on the President to put her own plans for the future of Parliament's channel in front of, or before, the plenary or a committee, and, of course, she should choose to do so. So I put this letter to the Minutes so that you all have access. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He said Mr. Zuraris - and quite rightly - said about ET3. It was raised by our good colleague, Christina Tachiau, from Thessaloniki. ET3, dear Minister, could be the Balkans broadcasting rocket. But you must give her an opportunity, which is absent from this bill. What is this possibility? The possibility of creating common channels with the relevant ET3 of neighbouring countries. There are legal instruments and I'll give you the relevant documents. The Germans do it with the Austrians and the Swiss with the '3SAT' channel. The French are also doing so with the Germans with the "ARTE" which is a cultural channel. They have too much advertising and great penetration, the first in German-speaking populations, the French in French-speaking. I was struck by a reference, Mr Minister, to the effect that European legislation is missing, since it was indeed an unprecedented fact of shutting down public broadcasting and restarting later on. However, I did an investigation. There is no clear precedent. But I did an investigation and I will testify to you, it is some links, some online links to legislation in Finland, Germany - especially in Germany, because it is about 2013, which is very recent, and it refers to the way of financing - and to the United Kingdom. I give you the links, which I think are very informative. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] I also present to you the study of UNESCO. It is a short time ago because ERT was still alive, but here it has a study of best practices - the best practices - the channels, public broadcasting worldwide and very interesting. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: it is a delicate, sensitive issue, but it is ethical. We Members of Parliament who are journalists, workers in the old ERT, would do well to think about what our position will be from now on. We cannot legislate for ourselves. I'm not saying we're doing this for that. But the citizen who sees us will say "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks". So there is a question. It would be advisable to choose: either MPs or civil servants or journalists or other undetermined specialties in the ERT. That is what I wanted to say and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Comrade, I just want to tell you, because you have handwritten the protocols, that it was obviously a big rush. In any case, I accept it for the Minutes and give it to the respective agency. On the substance of the matter, I will speak after the Step. But for the procedure you are asking, in other words for the channel of Parliament, I imagine that your question does not tend to lead to the demonisation of the channel of Parliament in the same way that ERT has been demonised, but rather to create a public radio and television as another.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u248	May I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u249	Because I can't remember that, when the black fell to the ERT, it fell "black" and on the channel of the Parliament that was broadcast through the ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u250	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u251	And for too long the citizens have not even had access to parliamentary information.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u252	Accepted. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u253	And by intervention from DIGEA he fell "black" and "902", when he had the courage to relay the ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u254	I know what you are saying very well, Madam President. You saw that I was very careful. I said that the channel of Parliament is of great value, it is very important, but it is also worth informing about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u255	Be well! The next speaker is Mr Jason Lightlas. I don't know if Mrs. Rachel McCree and Mrs. Liana Canelle, who were registered, have come. If not, with Mr Fotilla, we will complete the list of speakers and enter the course of the speeches of the rapporteurs into secondary. I, too, have asked for the floor, and I will wait after the speeches, so the Vice-President, Mrs Charalabedou, will be chaired, and then we will also be able to vote. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the main questions raised in relation to this bill, in my opinion, are two. The first question is: Does this draft law restore an injustice? The answer, in my opinion again, is that, yes, restores a great injustice, because the 'black' in June 2013, in addition to everything else, by anti-ethnic, anti-constitutional, anti-democratic and coup d'état - say what you want - was indeed a great injustice. So this question has been answered. Indeed, this bill partially restores an injustice. I say in part because, in our view, it should include all those who were working, they had a fixed-term contract which had not expired at the time of their dismissal. They should be included too. We have therefore answered the first question. Indeed, an injustice is restored. The second question is: Is TV which creates this draft law a good television? Is that the public television we all see? The answer is clearly not, ladies and gentlemen. The television that this bill creates is just a spectacle of television that we all know and disapprove all these years. Let us be a little clearer and specific. Is it really the TV that this bill makes an independent television? I think it takes a great deal of courage to say that this bill creates an independent television. What independence are we talking about, when the Minister of State is responsible for broadcasting matters? But, well, I wonder what you found to keep? Did you like it so much? You know, I've been looking to find a Western state not so civilised, perhaps less civilised, where there might be a Minister for T.T. I didn't find him. What independence are we talking about when the five of the seven members on the board are appointed by the relevant Minister? What independence are we talking about when the supervisory board is abolished, that is, when an age-old acquis is effectively abolished from all Western television channels, that is, that is, that, beyond the state that we once knew it was the only competent body to control, another body has entered, the supervisory board? This 'first time left' government said 'no'. No other body will control. It'll only control the state, only the Minister. What independence we are talking about, when we see party positions in positions of directors, coordinators, positions for which this bill does not provide anything, ladies and gentlemen, while other positions provide for regular tenders, notices, etc.Huh? Let's be a little more specific. Independent of this TV will certainly not be. Let's take a look at the numbers. You know the TV that was there, NERIT, in its five-year programme, predicts that revenue from the reward fee will reach EUR 200 million per year. Of these 200 million, 105 million will go to the public and 95 million will go to NERIT. Of these 95 million, 18 million relate to wages, about 32 million relate to ruthless operating costs, about 35 million concerns the programme, 8 million concerns investment and the others are taxes. Of course, this is the good scenario, ladies and gentlemen, because according to PPC in 2014 200 million euros have not been collected, only EUR 130 million has been collected because of many connection holidays. I ask now: if the new ERT, which is planned to enter the NERIT, instead of 18 million, needs only 60 million for wages, if we put 32 million for inflexible expenses - which will not be 32, because 32 were for a much smaller body, it will be much more, but let us leave them for the moment 32, so that is, only wages and abstract costs, cover the whole amount. Then what do we do? Aren't we going to have a schedule? Aren't we going to have investments? Are we going to create a company that will simply restore an injustice and pay employees, thus creating a much greater injustice against all Greek citizens who will pay for this company, which will have no work? Otherwise, the solutions are three: either you will have to raise the fee or you will have to reduce the staff, or you will have to deduct the amount you give the public koruna, but that does giggle, because it wants to negotiate with the partners, so we do not talk about it. So let us not mock the world any more, ladies and gentlemen. This television you bring and which you want to make with this bill is a broadcast by name in public and essentially governmental and ministerial terms, which will have since its birth a major problem of economic viability, but also huge problems in both the number and the quality of staff. I will only close by saying that, Madam President, which he has already said about the staff. What needs to be done is clearly to re-enter, because an injustice must be restored. From that point on, however, not all of them fit the Greek TV. There should therefore be a public internal tender - how to say it - there should be a serious assessment and the rest should be mobilised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u257	Thank you. I think that it always needs to be obedient to the government's ears when there are objections to government media. Besides, the wound of all of us, when we saw NERIT transmitting that the cleaners beat the MATs - which was definitely free information - I think it requires us to be very sensitive. Minister, you wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u258	Just a few seconds, Madam President. I humbly apologise to this House. There was an inaccuracy. It's not 18 million NERIT's payroll. It's about 33 to 34 million - I don't remember well - and in execution it was much more. So we don't create any impressions here. There's the documentation. The wage costs of NERIT, what was executed, with the wage costs of ERT, are very close and I think that is a criticism that cannot be standing any longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I don't see Mrs. McCree or Mrs. Canelle. We therefore have completed with the list of speakers here. It is for the second time a success that everyone who said they wanted to speak from the original list spoke. And so I think we also welcomed the colleague who was able to speak for the first time after four attempts. Now, I would like to make a clarification, because I see that there is, on behalf of Mrs Valavani, a late amendment, which has been presented since this morning. I understand from the Minutes that there was a unanimous consensus on accepting it. But I would like this confirmed, because you know what the Bureau's position is in relation to late amendments. In this respect, since they are beneficial to the community as a whole and do not harm, there is no counter-protect. But if there is any objection from someone, I would like to know that, because in order to vote on the whole, it must be clear. So: I don't see Mr. Friend, but he's coming. Mr. Georgiadis, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u260	The New Democracy is in favour of the amendment by Mrs Valvann to extend the time limit of the hundreds of doses.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u261	Mr. Rabbit?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u262	Let me see it a little. We don't even know that. Now we see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u263	Mrs Valavani's speech has been recorded in the Minutes. It was the time Mrs. Charalabed was chairing, quite early.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u264	Okay, Madam President, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u265	From the river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u266	We agree, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u267	The Communist Party of Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u268	We are not voting on the amendment, but we have no problem introducing, discussing and voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u269	Do you agree with its introduction and its incorporation into the whole resolution?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u270	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u271	From the Independent Greeks Mr. Mavraganis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u272	Yes, Madam President, we agree and vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u273	Mr. Mavragani, because your opinion was not recorded on Mr. Army's previous amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u274	I have already been in place since noon, but at any rate I repeat it now: we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u275	Okay. On PASOK's side?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u276	PASOK agrees, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u277	I suppose SYRIZA agrees too. Mrs. Kritsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u278	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u279	So let's get into the process of the rapporteurs' seconds. I suggest we give seven minutes for the seconds. Here you go, Mrs. Kritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u280	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard everything from the Opposition these two days. And I will not dwell on how happy some of the Vice-Presidents have appeared for the attacks and also the threats of lenders. The people who are watching us have also gained experience and criteria. However, let me start my dentext with a personal report which was set out by Vice-Population MPs and on the grounds that they are now making a sea bass. They spoke of a conflict of interest, with the vote here in this bill. Mr Amyras' last remarks confirm the truth. Let me remind him, however, of his dear colleague Mr Amyras that he is not 'Mead Greece' here. This is a'severe serious', Mr Amyras. For a conflict of interest, Mrs Vulture said even more clearly in her speech, which, unfortunately, others have repeated. So listen to what was said, what was new: that it is by definition incompatible with the status of the Member in the professional capacity that he had previously been elected. In fact, the JRC's parliamentary representative, Mr Pafilis, also burned down. To repeat, then, I too: What have they told us or what are they telling us after a century and a half of Parliament's culture? That no trade unionist can become a MP, and if so, is it forbidden to support legislative initiatives supporting the social group he represented? So, a lawyer or a doctor or a professor cannot, if elected as a Member, support bills relating to his industry and to whom he will return when he ceases to be a Member? Since when and what written or unwritten rule stipulates that a Member of Parliament who is a lawyer cannot vote on a bill of the Ministry of Justice, because at some point he will return to the fighting law? Is that a conflict of interest, ladies and gentlemen? Allow me, in my humble view, to call it wise, sound arguments and crowns of impression, but they cannot cover the embarrassment. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] As far as I am concerned, yes, I will, of course, do, as is absolutely legitimate and moral, an application to return to my work, to return to ERT. And of course, my employment relationship with the ERT, as it goes without saying, will be suspended for as long as I have the honour of being in this Chamber. Let me say something else that's been heard. I do not have, nor will I ever have any relatives or barbas at ERT, as one of the New Democracy Members said about public radio and television workers. Another look for the barbies, ladies and gentlemen. Those who, of course, selectively invoke morality, can look among you. I would therefore repeat from the Step forward of this House that it is an honour to serve public television, it is an honor that I have always been paid for in my collective agreement and that I submit to the minutes, for example, the true, official document of my insurance agency, the ETUC - SMEs, which shows my wages. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Agalia Kyritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's just so for your briefing. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in the way, but also under the conditions, confirms the correctness of our choice for ERT to be reopened immediately. Even the noise and disorientation tactics that we have seen throughout the previous debate confirm this. I know we surprised you. You did not expect that this government, the SYRIZA - ANEL government, would respect one of its election commitments and reopen ERT. And even that it would reopen it at a really difficult time for both the people and the country. But, for us other things are the priorities, others are the hierarchies. Information, independent public broadcasting, is no luxury and much more is not a feud of any government and much more of a government with SYRIZA. Information, independent public broadcasting is a structural element of democracy, it is a requirement of society, it is an obligation of any government that fundamentally perceives society, not as mass, not as a herd to manipulate, but as a society formed in a body, active, participating, deciding, demanding, controlling, claiming or disapproaching. And the Left, that's exactly the way she wants society. That is why we are insisting, and that is why we will insist that the first priority to cure the opening up of the ERT is the deep wound to democracy and, secondly, the restoration of an injustice against the workers. That's exactly our difference. How, in other words, we understand democracy and how we understand society and the people. Our starting-points, fortunately, are a long way off and we tell every tone that opening the ERT is not a minor issue. It is a major political and ideological issue, as well as a matter of major political importance, a question of democracy is the introduction of a class in the deliberately blurred broadcasting landscape. It is a major policy and national one - let me say - it is important to finally break the dirty triangle of politics - the media - banks, on which the whole old kleptonic system has bloomed, which has led the country to subjugation, but also our people to poverty. It is also a matter of major political and national importance that free access of the last house in Greece to uninformed information, real entertainment and culture that does not degrade, does not degrade, does not promote the post-modern model of the citizen - consumer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government has decided to open up the ERT. He decided to open up the ERT that really deserves our country and our people. And we invite you all to support this decision. Support it and then check each day and in the strictest way the implementation of the objectives set by this bill here. It's a social requirement, it's a constitutional check, it's our democratic obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u281	Thank you, Mrs. Kritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u282	Madam President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u283	Why, Mr. Amyras? He didn't mention your name at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u284	How he didn't report!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u285	How he didn't mention it! He mentioned it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u286	Didn't you hear that? My name and the show I was working on. Can I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u287	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u288	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'd say to my dear colleague that it was very regrettable that he underestimated a job, "Move Greece", the favorite travel show. Do you know why it's sad? Because, first, a million Greeks had sent sms to our show, to advertise their place, and these people have no assurances that they are drafted with your disgraceful comments on "Meaning Greece". Several SYRIZA MPs come and tell me "A! You've shown my village or "A"! I saw the place from you, and so it means that we had a penetration, a success as a show. But leave it behind. Most importantly you know what it is, dear colleague? That the Institute of Tourism Research and Forecasts carried out a study and said that during the first three years of operation of "Meme Greece" domestic nights in domestic tourism increased by one and a half nights, when during the last 15 years they had only increased overnight. I therefore consider and attach to your instant irritation the disgraceful remarks for my face and for "Me and Greece" and I will invite you - and when ERT opens, I think it will be one of your first concerns - to restore "Me and Greece", because it was first on television after the news release and had this great social acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u289	Obviously I must give the floor to Mrs Maij-Weggen for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u290	Mr Amyras, let me start by saying that you did not understand what I said. I referred to your argument that a Member is not allowed to engage in a profession. What's that sounded like? And not only from you but also from the New Democracy colleagues. Secondly, Mr Amyras, you will probably not know that "Measure Greece", your show, was one of the first broadcasts to sign an exquisite emission tariff of 6,000 euros. I would not like to make such references. There is a similar committee, Mr Amyras, already within NERIT, which controls tariffs - the over-courts - which could be internal productions of ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u291	I didn't work at the ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u292	However, they were mixed and external productions which were smashing the public cork.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u293	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u294	I'm sorry, Mr. Amyras, have you taken the floor? Please do not speak again if I do not give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u295	So, Mr. Amyras, we are still going to look at the frequency of NERIT and consider whether it is in the interest - not us, the Board of Directors of ERT - whether it is in the interest now as an internal production. And that is our proposal, Mr Minister, to maintain in the new programme the new ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u296	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u297	No, I won't allow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u298	There's been a lot of money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u299	I won't allow you, Mr. Amyras! You asked for the floor on staff, I gave it a mutual explanation. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u300	Yes, but I can't hear any amounts I have nothing to do with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u301	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Vulture, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u302	I never worked for ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u303	You're also a new colleague and you don't respect much, Mr. Amyras. And contrary to what you say from the Step of the House, you do opposite things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u304	But he said financially, he talked about money, and he linked my name. I didn't work at the ERT. I'm the last time I... (scoffs)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u305	Mrs. Vulture, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we have been dealing with the same subject. What I want to say, my colleague, is that you have no idea what a conflict of interest means. We could have a day. It's not the time now. We didn't say you had no right to work. We have said that you have no right to legislate on something you will be recruited from. I remember from the outset that Mr Tsipras had issued a code of conduct for future Members. There was a code of conduct that, as far as I know, you have resigned beforehand from your seat, etc. I accept what you're saying, that you're making the application and that you're on parole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u307	The same goes for... (Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u308	Mr. Triantafylide, let's not pull it. We've said other things. You know very well, don't go on with it. Let it go. All of this will look like later. We are pleased that you will be suspended, of course, which you have said this this evening. You didn't say that. It means that you have in any case been withdrawn to class with regard to this matter. Alexandros (ALKOS) Triantafyllid We were rescinded to class by who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u309	Mrs. Vulture, go on. Mr. Triantafylide, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u310	But don't address insults.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u311	You don't know what a conflict of interest means. If you knew what would mean a conflict of interest, everyone in SYRIZA, you wouldn't even be a rapporteur in this piece of legislation. It would be someone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u312	I'm fired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u313	I accept that there may also be a personal, private situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u314	There are no Members of Parliament with limited responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u315	This piece of legislation comes under your constant charge for both the ERT of your dreams and all of it. You obviously mean the ERT of twenty-six strikes in 2011, the forty-two-day strikes in the last two months in 2012, 11 weekends in 2013. That's what you mean charging. But it could have been someone else's way into the substance of the legislation. We heard here things associated with charging. We were unable to analyse the bill the way it had to be at the bottom of the scripture. We have told the Minister that the fact that he will nominate the board is a problem. You will see it after the legislative resolution that there will be a problem abroad, there will be a problem with EBU, which you have so long been in and to which we have been in. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen, we have heard all the speeches for two days now. If it were the agreement of 20 February - this agreement has become the most secret text of the living memory. Like Rabuigier's deal, let's say - if we were to have discussed it, say 'it's going to the good'. We'd know what you've signed and what Mr. Varoufakis has signed. Of course, we do. The problem is that you will fall off the clouds when you find out what has been signed. My second point is that there is no doubt that the reward fee will be increased. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on the proposal for a directive on the protection of 100 million goes to the surplus. You can't touch them. You offer, you say, another 30 million. As you can see, you either pay wages or make productions. ET3 will not - I sign it - operate with these amounts. So you're necessarily going to raise the reward fee. I want, Minister, to say something about the provider's issue and all these heroics that have been heard here. Public television by its founder is a provider of itself. So you can't claim here that you don't have Kastelorizo etc. He's a regular provider. What you are going to do is also provide private individuals, businessmen in the various regions. I want you to tell me whether this will be done at the expense of Greek taxpayers or whether public television will be traded. That is a matter. Otherwise, you didn't have to adjust it. I'm telling you, we know that. Once he's a provider, you didn't have to do anything else. There's something else going on here. Are you going to trade it? Are you planning to provide service through the fee to private individuals? These haven't been cleared up in all those heroics we've sat down to say these days. I conclude, so we don't get tired anymore: Two days have not been discussed by any of the most serious issues that currently concern the country. We haven't learned anything. So I'm telling you, we let you enjoy this heroic. We think it's the last one. From tomorrow you will look at voting in legislation to secure the money in order to pay salaries, pensions and everything else that the country needs to pay. We hear there's going to be a plan based on the Troika's cheques, so you can secure the money you haven't taken so far. So I think this month of ERT's honeymoon is over. From tomorrow you will be looking for the money, to pay the wages that you promised and you legislated on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Buddhism. Mr Triantafylides has the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u317	Once again, self-evident. The impoverishment of political arguments requires that we turn to hits below the middle, on a personal level, by the back swords. I'm explaining. Firstly, the accusation, Madam President, which you are addressing is that I, together with my colleagues, Mrs Kyritsis and Mrs Annetta Kavadia - and, as far as I am concerned, personally - had made direct consultations with Mr Samaras to close the ERT twenty-two months ago to become a MP. That's what I get. That there was a sacred deal, a conspiracy, to close ERT, to lose my job, to destroy fifty two families from the fired. There was not even a provision, as a code imposes, when two of the families are fired, at least there is the sensitivity to say that one of the two should find work in another agency. Of fifty two families in the ERT family, of the three thousand devastated dismissals, there was also the husband and wife. And the third and last - and I think it was a catalyst for Mr Pafile's intervention - on the next tone of doctors, lawyers, engineers, since they have legislated both the legislation and the drachmas, and financially returns to their pockets, they should be charged and condemned and should not be legislated, but they should be expelled from the Chamber to vote on everyone else. I think the arguments are amazing. The Greek people are listening. The Greek citizens listen to us and draw their conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u318	Come on. We were partners. We were together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u319	Well, that gave me a very good idea. I will write the novel "To assemble with Antonis Samaras to close the ERT".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u320	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u321	I have not referred to my fellow Member, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u322	Why, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u323	Seven times referred to the Chief of New Democracy, Mr Triantafylides, and I would like to place myself as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u324	Let your Chief come and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u325	I will only say one word, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u326	Is Samaras here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u327	Mr. Triantafylides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u328	I represent Mr. Samara here, if you don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u329	You're the one instead of that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u330	If you don't know, the parliamentary representative also represents the Chief, Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u331	Samara or New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u332	And Samara, the Chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u333	Well, that's your fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u334	You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u335	I only keep something from Mr. Pappas' speech, and I dedicate it to Mr. Triantafylides. When he tried to prove in his speech that he did not hire his own children, SYRIZA, he said the following abhorrence. We don't take our own kids. It was your kids that you put in the ERT. So now, Mr Triantafylides, we have learned that you and your wife were of our own children, who now for the "x" reasons you took off the tie and you play SYRIZA. That's your right. But a little temper. I have a good memory. And the Panagiotis Psomadis press offices I remember the nominations with PASOK I remember the good shows for the Memorandum. So a little attention doesn't hurt, Mr. Triantafylides. Is that right? A little attention doesn't hurt! And hypocrisy has limits! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u336	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u337	Why, Mr. Triantafylides?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u338	But now, if it's personal!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u339	You only have a minute, Mr. Triantafylides, because it's too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u340	It's too late, but it looks like it's too early. Analgesia is now perceived at a personal level. For the last four to five days, we have experienced this process of New Democracy's policies, which, in a collusion with a number of private channels, are hitting, impersonating, trying to cancel. Because we're talking about frequencies, because we're talking about fines. We're even in our family! Shame on you! Shame on you! That's all I have to say! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u341	Let it be quiet, Madam President. Two people worked at the ERT. A couple was working.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u342	Please stop talking to each other a little bit. The reason is the special speaker from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Rabbit, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u343	Thank you, Madam President. Although we have discussed the issue two days now and we have said too much, I should like to highlight something and say again the position of the Golden Dawn to be heard once again. By the way, it makes us very impressed to hear here that all this conflict between the government and the counterpopulation talking about our own children, about journalists we put them in, or who had entered from elsewhere. The Golden Dawn has one more reason to talk about them, because it was either your children, or any other children it was, the common enemy there was and it was Golden Dawn. When there were tons of mud against her, there were all the children becoming a family and you were against the common enemy that was the Golden Dawn. So, to emphasise one more time and not forget all the things that have been done. If one thousand of what was heard against Members of the Golden Dawn had been heard, if only one of you, to a single MEP, not to the entire parliamentary group, would have come out, would have burned Athens, there would have been signs and monsters. We have heard things and wonders about us personally. You told us everything, some journalists. Not some people, all channels, all media. What was heard at the expense of the Golden MPs, the party leader, executives and ordinary members have no precedent. There it was not found to say anything about one of you very sensitive and democrats, because here today I am tired of hearing about the victory of democracy, democracy and pluralism. That's what we heard. That's what we've been hearing for two days. One of you democrats, of all of you expressionors of democracy and public speech, was not found to say once: 'For you, what is going on here, for these golden people what is all we say? Are we wrong? I'm thinking maybe. Is it not right what we say?' No journalist was found, no MP was found, no one was found. On the contrary, you all had taken the shovel and looked at throwing one more big shovel. Of course, I am sorry to say this for you, unfortunately for most of you, we have all been sad. It turned out to be a great deal if we were very clear about everything you accused us of. And those of you who aren't convinced yet, wait, the court will start in a while. We want it to be done as soon as possible. We want it to happen and there are cameras in the Chamber to hear what we have to say, what the false witnesses have to say, and what the journalists have to say, the most important, all of them, who are now, slowly as long as the weather is over, starts and ask for apologies. I'd like to highlight something you probably don't know. My competitor and MP, Mr. Antonis Gregos, filed an appeal against the "NATIONS" of the great energizer Bobola who dragged so much against us eighteen months and won it. This isn't written anywhere, it's in the change, it doesn't sound. I had filed a lawsuit in the newspaper "THE KARPHI", when the arrests had been made and said all these orgy at our expense and five days ago they came and apologized, not to move on to the lawsuit. Slowly everyone will apologise, slowly everyone will find out what they need, slowly. Eighteen months you've all played against us and no one has heard anyone say if we're right there, there's no evidence of innocence there, there's no Members of the Greek Parliament, there's nothing there. There were only some bad guys who, without anyone knowing anything, had to tear them apart. Well, we're too hard on your teeth, you didn't tear us apart. We are here with the vote of the Greek people, you want, you do not want. And because we have heard about democracy, because we have heard about too many things, I would say that democracy, rather a step towards democracy, would be if public television ever called for a representative or a member of the Golden Dawn. Where are you, you democrats, all of you? How do you feel when no representative of the third parliamentary force in Greece is called? As much as you don't want there is no sensitivity, is there no democracy there? There's obviously nothing. So when you start calling us, as we are told - we are not asking for anything further, and again I repeat that we are not begging anything, we demand what belongs to us - then we will start talking about some steps of democracy. We - and I repeat, although you have now heard some of what the journalists and public television have done to our detriment - still have no avengerist tendencies, and yet we are tempted by workers coming back and working, of course, and not to repeat the phenomena that we have learned and within the committee, because we do not know much about them. They are your children, our children - but our children were not there - who were told that there were managers and other seniors and that their payroll amounted to 1,850,000 euros. That is not the case. We are not talking about it. People who are going to work to live their families decently, of course, and be with them. But here we will be if we repeat such phenomena. I would also like to stress something about what I said earlier to learn a few things, because many of you might not know them, one of the representatives of public television workers, a specific name, will come to the trial of the Golden Dawn as a category witness. What can that man say? Has he seen a crime? If he's seen a crime, he should have gone to testify already and the Rabbit, Poppas, Gregos, after seeing that there's a crime. There's no crime that's coming to testify for man, he's coming to testify that they don't like our faces, they don't like our beliefs, they don't like our ideas. So they're across from us, they're on public TV, now on private what's going on, let's see there. On the particular bill that we are discussing, I repeat, that we are in favour of employing the workers. We repeat as Golden Dawn that regional stations need to be heard, the problems of our country must be heard. The Golden Dawn is in favour, it has been said from the first moment and the radio and the public television. Finally, we must stress that we must - again, Minister - be a little more specific on the subject of the rewarding ending. The fact that there will be an agreement of the Minister of Finance with the Minister of State, and this rewarding end can be increased, reduced, as appropriate, this should be a little more specific, so that we too know what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u344	Thank you. Mr Spyros Dannelis, rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u345	Madam President, I shall speak from my position. I'm not using the whole time. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have just seen how the negatives of democracy take advantage of the opportunities given by democratic forces when they do not respect the rules of democracy. Minister, I would like to thank you for its positive contribution to the drafting of the bill. However, it was nothing more than our consistency with what we consider to be the role of counter-population, namely to be constructively involved and, of course, to be away from the taboo of refusal to accept or contribute to the creation of governmental work. I would like to say, however, that if you had accepted some of the amendments we have tabled to shield the public character, public service broadcasting and the removal from the long hand of enforcing the state and the government, you would have given a practical response to the Panagoulis exhortations we heard this afternoon, to those who believe that it was not one of the usual peculiarities of Mr Panagoulis and his evenings, but just Mr Panagioulis expressed a choice of government, namely the creation of a party state. As far as the financial information you referred to a moment ago is concerned, I do not think it is right. They are the analytical elements, the economics, which we have referred to in our prototypes, and they exist in the Minutes. It is accurate and it proves that the project as it stands is not sustainable. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Polakis, who, just now, anticipated in his speech that we would be in a very difficult position if you would finally bring us legislation that would take us away from a constant scandal, namely the legitimate use of the public good of frequencies, implying that we are being linked to inappropriate relationships with some of the interests...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u346	That's exactly what...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u347	Well done. And you say so. Of course, you were not present during the treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u348	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u349	Mr. Polakis, don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u350	Mr. Dannelly, please continue. Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u351	Mr Polakis because he was not present in the procedures of our committee, he is therefore ignoring that I, first of all, Potami, raised this issue with the Government, considering that it is appropriate times to end with this scandalous process of continuing the management of public frequency, in the way that we have learned in recent years, and to avoid the political system ending with this assumption that will also work pedagogically towards society by removing us from a basic charge. Of course, it was also not present, when we raised a second issue which is not of minor importance, because it is a prerequisite for us to get to the solution of the first, which is to end the illegal operation of the PSE, which actually cancels it from every project and I think, by reintroducing it, the conditions are appropriate. I think we will have a happy ending if the government takes the initiative to bring in a proposition of merit, a proposal that can be accepted by the other parties, so that after ten or 13 years we can have a legitimately operating National Broadcasting Council. I think we can ensure the four-fifths required by the Constitution at the Conference of Presidents and the sooner you bring it, Minister, the sooner we will end from a single one we have been dragging for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. The rapporteur for the ANE, Mr Mavragans, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u353	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will not need seven minutes, because I was very detailed in principle and on the articles, but I would like to highlight a key point for us, the Independent Greeks, perhaps the most important point here in this legislation. I think it's also a social check, which absorbs the greatest interest in society and focuses on this piece of legislation. I mean the interest of society in balancing the media landscape and, in particular, the implied legislative initiative and anticipated legislative initiative on the ongoing legislation in terms of control of the systemic media, the financing of these and, in particular, of the genuinely provocative funding given around the suspicious period of the election battle or immediately after it. I think that the entire Greek people have understood in practice now, with evidence, how they interact with each other and how this complexity affects the systemic media, business interests and political power. I think it's a clear social project. If we ever want to make it clear in this society the day from the wheat, we really need to start at the heart of the problem. And the heart of the problem is the complexity and the complexity have its seat on the systemic media. That is why, in my prototype, I said to the Minister that the systemic media, their rulers and those in the political world who are in agreement with them would see with them differently this piece of legislation, and everyone would then be willing to vote for it if an article, Article 16, which enables the Minister to solve the media companies, was removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. The rapporteur for PASOK, Mr Arvanitides George, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u355	I won't use my right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u356	Thank you very much. Mrs Konstantopoulou, the President of Parliament, has asked for the floor. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u357	Thank you, Madam President. You will allow me to speak emotionally, subjectively and very consciously about what constitutes democracy the fact that this government and the Minister decide and carry out the overthrow of the policy of blackness, the overthrowing of a hunch of inspiration, which was implemented by a profess by the then Minister of State, Kedicoglou, and perhaps the most authoritarian act of the Samara government. On the other hand, it also marked the beginning of a reverse course, which triggered the democratic reflexes of our people, who did not give in to the sirens of saving and did not give up the freedom of information for the sake of demolition of certain euros. On the contrary, having registered experience of authoritarianism, dictatorship, authoritarian governance, raised up, embraced ERT workers. I always say to the workers, because the judicial authority in our country, to a very large extent, has responded to and reached its task and has diagnosed that the redundancies of the workers in the ERT were void and unconstitutional. And I always say workers and not made redundant for the additional reason that those people, whom the Samaras government wanted to conspire, have given lessons of selflessness, a bourgeoisie struggle, a service of unmanufactured and uninformed information so that they can be irresponsible, some and some who, and who have never even entered into the insecurity of unemployment and unpaid work, are indemnified for 'conflict of interest'. It really wants a great deal of courage to give up for 'conflict of interests', those who chose the difficult path of the struggle for democracy, those who chose to be loyal to their conscience and constitutional duty and to inform the citizens when the mid-term propaganda humiliated and the struggling and the "DIGEA" was cutting off the signal on everything that dared to project something derogating from the main line. We will not forget and will not write the black in the ERT. We will not forget and we will not write off DIGEA's intervention on black in the ERT. I would remind you that he intervened at the television station '902', which was still the property of the Communist Party of Greece at the time. DIGEA intervened and interrupted the broadcast. And he did this with a conflict of interest, because he was looking forward to receiving - and not winning or winning from the frequency photographic contest - at a degrading price, the exclusive provision of digital spectrum at national and regional level. And indeed, he got it. And in fact, at the price of 18,300,000 euros, six Greek-wide television stations have taken the exclusive provision of the digital signal at regional and national level for 15 years. This, by means of a simple act of arithmetic, which we had the opportunity to do as a Parliamentary Group of Officers, means 18,300,000, for fifteen years, for twelve months, with six pan-Hellenic television stations, the ones with which the previous administration has been orally involved. This, ladies and gentlemen, means something less than EUR 17 000 per month rent for the exclusive provision, for the exclusive disposal of this precious, invaluable public good. And there, yes, there is a huge conflict of interest, but they are not the ERT workers who have been unpaid for twenty-two months who have given and given the fight. There is a huge conflict of interest to those who, on the one hand, closed down the ERT and, on the other, got direct assignments to different parties. I have here, Madam President, a question I asked - it remained unanswered - as a SYRIZA Member on 13 February 2014. It is a question of special management. He never answered. The Special Administrator made direct awards with unthinkable amounts to the company ‘KANDOR Business Counsellors S.A.’. - to say - EUR 58,500 for the assignment of support advisory services. And some people were disturbed by the Public Debt Truth Committee. The Special Administrator also rented a comprehensive audio and image mix system to produce the news release of the IM - a non-existent company - to the company "TELMACO" with EUR 79,500. In June, July, 2013, ERT's Special Manager entrusted EUR 59,644,35 with building security services. It also commissioned the supply of equipment for the operation of a television station and the provision of related services for the operation of a television station to Emmanuel Angelopoulos and Sis E.E.’ - "Television E.E." - from 16-7-2013 to 15-10-2013, i.e. at the IGC, the non-existent form controlled by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Order. If possible TV under the Ministry of Finance and Public Order! And some have the nerve to say that the new ERT will be a government television! This is why the direct delegation also spent 468,000 euros. Gikas Manalonis Special Administrator on 5-11-2013 also decided to provide 155,000 euros, now VAT, to the company "TELECT RATES" during the month of July for the rental of studios for the transmission of television programme for eight days. It is the famous co-ownership studio of two of the media. Who has the conflict of interest? ERT workers? Who, ladies and gentlemen, has given Mr Gika Manalis with his last-minute amendment to an unrelated bill, immunity for these direct management and direct awards? Who gave him the green light to go to the general manager of a private bank, essentially enjoying immunity with the parliamentary bogeyman? Who dares to speak of a conflict of interest to the people who saw twenty of them losing their lives in these twenty-two months? Minister, I would ask you very much for those people who have lost their lives during this struggle and for their families, on your next legislative initiative - I know it will be about the question of regulating the broadcasting field - to have a provision. It's the minimum price. [[Applause from SYRIZA Wing]] It is consistent with what the state does for people who lose their lives in duty. And I think that the people who have lost their lives in this magnificence of suffocation, but insisting on striving for dignity, democracy and free information, deserve and we must honor them as fallen in duty. A conflict of interest is addressed to us and addressed to the workers in ERT by whom? At what point has the nerve reached and where does the tooth herb not work, the tooth fence that should put an end to the tongue? Was it the ERT workers who, like, brought to the House opinions on the submarine case about the famous company ‘Abu Dhabi Mar’? And o of the miracle he gave an opinion on a scandalous amendment who? Assigned to the administration of ERT not obviously by the workers, not by the co-government today. In any case, we must say this: there must also be an element of self-awareness, a factor of complicity and of taking responsibility. Honestly, I wondered when the rapporteur for the PASOK was present. I do not doubt that he expresses his personal position and expresses it genuinely. However, it cannot be forgotten here that from the black to the ERT some people have been promoted, a party leader has become Vice-President and some MPs have become ministers. This was in exchange for the continuation of PASOK’s continued conflict with New Democracy after the June 2013 crisis. And I think that everyone is judged - and must be judged - very strictly when he agrees to undermine democracy and when he agrees to cooperate in an extremely undemocratic policy and practice. And that was the choice of PASOK since June 2013. The crocodile krone on opposition to the act of legislative content has no value because, as you know, all the parliamentary parties have tabled proposals for its immediate withdrawal and abolition as soon as the legislative act is adopted. The government then chose not to bring it to ratification. However, it has never brought these proposals from all the parties to the debate on the abolition of the legislative act. That was the 20th act of legislation and I said then, speaking at the support gathering at the ERT yard, that it would be the last of the Samara government. It wasn't the last one. Exploded another ten or so. But it was the charisma for its reverse course. And it was also the grace of the decisive claim by the Greek people of overthrowing this philosophical system of philosophicalism and struggling with the place. I would like to speak from this step and speak the way I have said - and subjectively and charged - to thank the workers at the ERT for the lessons of democracy, dignity and unequivocally proclaimed and inspired by all those who - each of their own times - were giving and giving their struggle. I mean that to all these people, both to voicers and workers on radios throughout the territory, to technicians, to journalists, to POSOPERT, who did the titanium work to support the pan-Hellenic relay, and indeed with digital spectrum, it is worth really paying them the price they need. It is to your credit, Minister, that you are bringing in a legislative initiative that has no re-insurance. I think this gives a completely different new model lesson. A regulation must be made, in view of the next bill you will bring, so that the restoration of people and reasoning is complete and fair. On the part of the House, I see with great interest that what some people are most worried about is nothing but the creation of an information that is not in its control and control of the interlocutory, a breach is created in this misinformation platform. And I see that the same concern arises every time the Parliamentary Channel broadcasts parliamentary action, whenever the Parliament's channel broadcasts those which are involved and the interventions themselves are cut off. Well, that's right, they're worried, because the Parliament's channel will continue to serve the unmanageable information, the full information. And you have no doubt, Mr Amyras, that this will move in that direction. If you hope that it will move in the direction of preliminary information, we will disappoint you. I would also like to say to you, Minister, that, in support of this objective you are putting in your ministry's bill, the Channel of Parliament, as I said in my opening speech as the newly elected President of this House, will also take advantage of the experience of the workers throughout this race and will enter the process and inform about this race, but also make it effective and contentious. Of course, I think that is something that many have reasons to worry about. On the contrary, we have no reason to make them worry. I would like to say that the fight of ERT workers has inspired and supported a lot of people psychologically. I do not forget the school guards who gathered in the Radio of Agia Paraskevi and above, in ET3, the workers of "COCA COLA", the sacked or recruited, who were always around the ERT assembled and engaged in racing. So, I think this first step of the bill is a decisive symbolic and essential move to restore democracy in our country. It was the authoritarian act of the 'black' and it must be said. It was an act of dictatorial texture and it must be said that those who are using such actions to promote supposedly budgetary policies are those who actually dream of subjugating societies whole and peoples under the pretext of an economic debt. It is the same mechanism that, on the pretext of debt, is actually intended to deactivate peoples and societies. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should take this step with smile and optimism. We must, Minister, leave no one behind at this step. Therefore, in the area of comments, suggestions, further specificities and criticisms, all of this needs to be seen with great attention until the next bill that is not late and you have informed us that it will be coming soon. ERT must be based on its function. It must be said clearly that what is called NERIT is not ERT. What was called the IM isn't ERT, nor would it ever be. Otherwise, as I said before, the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance beat the MATs. Otherwise, we would also think that it was because the National Greece lost to the Mundial that it went with the left. If that were ERTs and briefings, we would never see such phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this as a member of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group that I am very proud that in our parliamentary group we have journalists who have fought with very difficult conditions and who will choose whom they will go and who they will leave. Because the difficult thing is to choose the path of dignity and democracy, the easy thing is to choose the francs and confidence, but it is insecurity for many other people. Minister, I think you are giving us all great hope and expectation for the reopening of the ERT. The citizens who embraced the workers have great expectations both of your Government and of the new ERT that will be created. Fortunately, citizens have awakened and do not swallow unrestrained food and that is why they are rejecting private television as well as paper information. You'll have seen the polls and statistical records. I think that the new ERT has the prospect, but also Parliament's mandate to be an Observatory of information, culture and education. In conclusion, I would like to say that the experience of this struggle seems to me to have no historical precedent and has no equivalent. And this shows us that the power of man and reasoning, when activated, is inexhaustible and inventivity, inventivity and creativity are unstable. Let's keep this lesson as a guide for our next course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u358	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u359	Thank you, Mrs Constantopoulos. Mr. Georgiadis, have you asked for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u360	No, I would like to comment on what he said against the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u361	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u362	What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u363	Mr. Polakis, please. He is a parliamentary representative. He has a right to make a short intervention. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u364	It is extremely impressive that Mrs Constantopoulou nor does she forbid us from criticising the government. Listen to what he said three - four times: "You must have terrible courage to dare and speak." Hey, we've got a lot of nerve, Mr. Constantopoulou, and we dare, and we talk to you too! If that's possible! [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] But I have to close - because we are all very tired - to tell the Minister that he can work with the President of this House and get know-how about how a pluralist channel is being built, an uninformed piece of democracy. Let's say she can see how the Parliament's channel is currently working. The Parliamentary channel has a similar little brother somewhere in North Korea. You know, when there was a committee of Parliament meeting for a bill, and the President of the press conference... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] ...the channel of Parliament did not show the committee to which Parliament met and produced legislative work, but at the direction of the President he expected to show the press conference of the President. So democratic! That's so undetected! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It is extremely impressive that you also take examples from the magazine "Bullet & EUROBOULE". The latter had forty-seven counted pictures of her! I am sure that with such standards you will also make an ERT of similar democraticity. But I have to say one more thing to the President. You know, this steward who catches you for your impervious briefing and your new big fantasy, it's old times. Today we don't need all of this because we're all learning it. For example, since I remembered it as he was saying, he referred to the manager - an ERT special clearer. But look at what I was reading the day before yesterday in a magazine that Mrs Constantopoulou certainly knows about 'UNFOLLOW'. A close associate of the main manager was placed by your government commander in a large insurance company. Now, look, the right hand of our evil cleaner has been put by you good men to the OAU! Look at things, Mrs. Constantopoulou! I learned this not from the ungrateful ERT, but from a magazine, "UNFOLLOW", through the Internet. Because today, Mrs. Constantopoulou, we all know everything. And all that you're constantly sucking, the fantasies that people can't know and don't learn and wait for you to learn, but they're old-time products. So just take the tons down a little. Rule correctly why you're taking us all to the rocks. And as long as you are supposed to be concerned about the ERT workers, I tell you that thousands of private workers are in danger of losing their jobs and losing their jobs every day while the main ministers are negotiating and no money is on the market! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u365	Mrs Konstantopoulou will speak, then the Minister will speak and we will conclude the debate. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u366	It really wants a lot of nerve to talk about when as a Minister of Health you have brought a special article to legalise - it is Article 18, Mr Georgiadis, your bill as a Minister of Health - the broadcast of all illegal broadcasters and the awarding of the ERT broadcast. He wants you to speak a lot of nerve when as Minister of a Government you have signed and voted over and over and over and over and over - five times 'rough' - the tax concessions for these television stations, which owe and abuse a public good that is the television signal and the television spectrum and at your command your policy. For I do not suppose anyone would think that we have forgotten, let us say, that Mr Prottenter confessed that he falsely and at the command of the Papandreou government was talking about a viable debt, while it was not, or to forget that Mrs Spyracy, now your MEP, has confessed that he was paralysing, while he knew that he had escaped funds between May and June 2012. She wants a lot of nerve to talk about when you've conspired not only to the rallying and looting of ERT's property, but even to the forgery of her magazine. In fact, it has been allegedly left unawares by Mr Samaras that his very close person has taken over the forgery of broadcasting immediately after the closure of the ERT. As Mr Georgiadi for the magazine "Bouly & EUROBOULE", to which you have referred, I should like to inform you, because you see the lack of information harms parliamentary representatives very seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u367	Tell me about the channel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u368	This magazine is not a Parliament, Mr. Georgiadis. Previous Presidents of the House have signed contracts with this magazine - SYRIZA did not have a previous president, for your information - and it is not a Parliament magazine. If the House has to have a magazine, we should consider it. I'll look into it very seriously. But does it really want you to talk a lot of nerve when you have this record, even when - on a governance basis in which you are involved, it is enough for the cancer patients to have no medicine, but companies connected with Ministers - Stournaras and Varvitsiotis, to remind you - and with relatives - since we talked about conflicts of interest and have caught the families - that they are taking over what? The communication campaign against polypharmaceuticals, while cancer-induced drugs are not worth nearly 500 thousand euros. That's to talk about the nerve to talk about the nerve. It takes a lot of nerve to talk about the Parliament's channel, which, for the first time in this period, presents most committees directly. In the previous period, I would remind the Members who were here, that the bill might have been discussed in the committee and the committee would have been put forward eight or nine days later, that the disinformation from the adjectives to which certain committees, parliamentary representatives or ordinary Members called, have been misinformed, and there have been reports on it. He wants a lot of nerve, and you don't want to be disturbed that the Parliament's channel projected what? The honour of women who have fought for democracy, freedom, rights and justice. He wants a lot of nerve to be disturbed that he projected the fight of the cleaners of the Treasury and hosted them. It still needs a lot of nerve to be disturbed - even because it hosted migrant communities and representatives of anti-racist movements and reasoning. And this last one, Mr Georgiadis, I understand that very well to bother you. Especially that! Finally, he wants to talk a lot of nerve when you have conspired not only in the "Black" to the ERT, but also in the invasion of the MATs to the ERT at four o'clock at dawn. He really wants you to think you're the victims of censorship. I think, Madam President, that the nerve is too much, it has run out, as we say lawyers are, over- and under-the-counter and objective. If, however, it comes back, there will also be a similar answer, because we may not have any nerve, but we have evidence and answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u369	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u370	Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u371	Madam President, I just want one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u372	What happens now? Let's vote. Let the President make it easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u373	Mr. Georgiades, with the Minister's permission, because I had given him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u374	Minister, let's get this over with. Can't you do something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u375	First of all, I'm going to serious. You have already said this in the previous House about Mr Stournara and his wife. He'd answered you himself, I'd answered you too. It's a terrible thing to do as a woman. Mr Stournara's wife has a public relations company for thirty years. He didn't have a company when Mr. Stournaras became Minister. It is unacceptable that a lady who talks about feminism and equal rights for men and women should claim that someone's wife, when she becomes Minister, should go home and stop her work. I wonder how you say it and go on and say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u376	Aren't you saying that journalists can't be MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u377	These Members vote to be recruited. I told you the difference. The lady will now vote and then she will be a civil servant. Let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u378	So many families don't have the right to life! You and yours only have a right in life! That's your logic!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u379	Dear Mr Triantafylides, I live in the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u380	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u381	I don't live in public, and because of the government, I'm going to go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u382	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Your spear opens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u383	Your nerve is all over it. Not to me. Your nerve is all over it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u384	You're an endless bolt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u385	Mr. Triantafylides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u386	Put the tie and the costume and speak cheeky again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u387	Let go of the ties! You're a circus! You don't respect! Others are women, aren't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u388	Mr. Triantafylides, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u389	Madam President, I am glad that the leaders of the magazine "Bouly & EUROBOULE" suddenly loved you so much for themselves and put you forty-seven photos. It's very interesting. Of course, we all understand that it may be a special edition, the opinion of the President of the Parliament is dominant. That's well known. Secondly and above all, I want to go back to the major one, because that is what is missing you in terms of your democracy. We can be annoyed with whatever we want. You, since you are a democrat, must ensure that we are able to express this disagreement. But you, as President of Parliament, are doing something else. You decide on your own, and you order. That's unthinkable. You brought the nice cleaners here. Which party did you ask? None. You decided, you opened the plenary, you held the event, you did not ask anyone, as if it were your home. You have now decided to hold the press conference for this committee that you have made all by yourself, which is anti-institutional and is from your mind. What did you do now? You have appointed the press conference and you have decided that the committee should not play, but you must play. So listen to democracy having one's own decision without asking anyone else, first I see it! As far as I am concerned, since I am older than you in Parliament - I say this for younger colleagues - on the channel of the House, no previous President of this House had any idea of using it as you do. Suddenly we wake up and watch spots where none of the other parties know how these spots entered the Parliament's channel. The channel of the House is all of us. It's not your ma'am, as you think. And surely if you think it's yours, it's not too democratic to handle it like that. So when you yourself treat Parliament as being your own property, yes, I beg your pardon, it is a terrible courage to rise up and to abandon others for lack of democracy. Well, stop the mud, learn to respect the others. Since you like democracy, ask where and where, when you move on to some acts, and leave the examples to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u390	Mrs Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u391	What happens now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u392	Very soon, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u393	Excuse me, Mrs. Constantopoulos. Mr. Georgiadis has made two speeches on personal matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u394	Will we see who has the last word?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u395	Mrs Konstantopoulou will speak and this debate will be concluded. Then I will give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u396	It's the president. Let it go. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u397	Here, Mrs Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u398	Very briefly and to the very truth of the information. Firstly, the channel of the House is an administrative department of the House, which is in charge of the President or the President. This is the case under the Rules of Procedure, which SYRIZA did not create, the previous parliamentary majorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u399	And what does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u400	The others asked, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u401	Secondly, not one person has been hired by me on the channel. On the contrary, Parliament's channel operates with the staff, which has been hired by the previous and previous presidents and is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u402	That's not why they asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u403	In relation to a private magazine to which you refer, the magazine "BOULE & EUROBOULE", I tell you again that it has nothing to do with Parliament. If you've heard from my predecessor that his opinion counted, I don't know, he hasn't told me that, but I don't have any communication with the publishers, nor do I know them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u404	Very good journalists!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u405	In relation to your innocence regarding who is a woman and who is not, the issue of having a company involving Mr Stournara's family, his wife and daughter, and the company in which his brother, Mr Varvitsiotis, and the Prime Minister's close associate, Mr Papastavrou, are involved - not women either and the other - and this company, while there is no euro for cancer medicines, Mr former Minister for Health, is taking over a communication campaign of half a million euros, in order to make a medium-term campaign against polypharmaceuticals, yes, it raises a major issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u406	What are these now? Can't you impose the order, Madam President? What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u407	As a major issue in general terms, action by individuals, when they have a conflict of interest, is a major issue. You know that Mr. Papastavrous had a conflict with the Swiss about the statements in Switzerland, when he's on the Lagard list with a five million euro company, as you, Mr. Georgiadis, had a conflict of interest to participate in the Lagard...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u408	Uh, now I'll talk to you later. You can't do that! There's no way!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u409	No, we're not doing that. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u410	While on this list, this is your wife as a related person.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u411	Good, Mrs. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u412	I shall conclude, Madam President. So, to be clear, I spoke about the conflict of interest which was overreacting to those who today discovered that the unpaid have been having a conflict of interest for twenty-two months. And as for the event that took place for women in plenary, on the one hand, I would like to inform you that the first honouree was Alice Yotopoulos - Magatopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u413	That was the burgers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u414	...it was Pepi Rigopoulou, were the women presidents of the judicial associations, it was Maria Callegi for her anti-trial struggle, it was the prison workers, it was Sofia Koukoulis - Spelliotopoulos, it was a woman from Kobani. We did not open the plenary and put the cleaners on the table, as you say it bothers you. And even more you should have a contraction, because in this process all parties were invited...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u415	Who invited them here? Didn't you call them yourself? You've called thirty bodies on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u416	...and the rapporteur was Mrs Antoniou and Mrs Vultesis, who welcomed and applauded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u417	At 12 noon, you informed about 6 p.m. in the afternoon. Thirty agencies you called yourself. We could've called too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u418	Mr. Cryazides, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u419	So you should have a bigger contraction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u420	Well, Mr. Paphis has the floor, then Mr. Friends and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u421	Madam President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u422	No, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u423	Madam President, he mentioned my wife and my family. I'm not going to answer that on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u424	No, because I didn't give you the floor. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u425	Wait a minute! Mr. Paphie, please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u426	Oh, no. I'll talk ten seconds and then whatever you want, do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u427	Mr. Georgiadis, who would you please ask? Please me! I won't give you the floor. I gave the floor to Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u428	He mentioned my family!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u429	You'll tell me later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u430	Then, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u431	Madam President, I am making a proposal: after the debate we have heard about the bill on ERT and from Mr Georgiadis and from the President-in-Office, I propose that we stop, that the Minister close and conclude. Because, this game, everyone talking and taking the floor to any bill for what comes to their minds, to play the next day in the bulletins, once has to stop. So please close the debate here. If the rest of you agree, the Minister who has to close the debate and go anyway. Our job is not to sit in here for twenty-four hours, but our job is to talk to people about what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u432	Thank you. Mr. Friend has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u433	I agree with Mr Pafile, and I would ask colleagues not to follow up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u434	No, on personal grounds, I'll speak for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u435	I repeat: don't give them any more time. He needs a restraint, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u436	Is Mrs. Constantopoulou going to be in trouble? Excuse me, who does he think he is?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u437	I would ask the Bureau to keep the procedure - we have heard what we have heard - and to concentrate on the subject of the agenda, which is the draft law of the ERT. It's about time. Let's vote. And today there is a decisive section on the subject of information. Everything else we'll see in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u438	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u439	No, please. You said I'll talk after Mr. Paphie. You're welcome. He did that at a previous meeting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u440	Mr. Georgiadis, I didn't give you the floor. I think the process is over. You can't keep asking why.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u441	He slandered my family and my wife!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u442	What do you say, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u443	She mentioned, by name, my wife and the Lagard list. Give me the floor. He's done it before at a previous meeting and I didn't hear it. I went out and asked the journalists, and I didn't talk. Is it possible to let this thing pass? You, if they swear your family, will you sit silent?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u444	Mr. Georgiadis, I haven't given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u445	We said! There's some limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u446	Your reaction has been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u447	No, there's no reaction. You'll give me a minute. I don't speak ten like she does. I'm talking about a half and a half. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u448	Now what, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u449	Well, listen: I maintained our political disagreement. I didn't do it on staff. I could very easily say whether it is a conflict of interest to be a SYRIZA and a member of human rights, and I do not know what else and to defend a rapist for years. I could do it. I didn't. But Mrs Constantopoulos has no limits. On the subject of the Lagard list, to end the joke, my wife isn't on the Lagard list. The last person who wrote it is in court from my wife and the same person who wrote it in trial with me asked me for apologies to withdraw it. So this joke will stop because it's gone too far. The Lagard list was her ex-husband before I met her. Mrs. Constantopoulou, the only thing she does is to keep throwing mud when she's in a difficult position. As far as what I said about the nice cleaners is concerned, it is not about whether all these good ladies should be in the House. They should have been, and they're here. It's about how Mrs Constantopoulos did the procedure: she decided, she invited them, she did it all by herself without asking anyone. That's what I told her. So let's get back all the names one by one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u450	Madam President, for fifteen seconds I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u451	For a second, you and a half a minute, Mrs Konstantopoulou, and the debate is closed. Here you go, Mrs. Constantopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u452	I should like to inform you about something, Madam President, as I have done several times, like then, that the newspaper that had undertaken to support Mr Venizelos's version of the Lagard list, that it is not usable for a list, has taken on board with the same journalist, who has also given some seminars against corruption, those of Siemens, I am not sure - to present one of the very many cases I have defended. I want to assure you that for one to one of the cases I have defended, I am proud. This isn't the first time I've been attacked for my business trip. But I don't really have to be ashamed, or be afraid...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u453	Neither is Mrs Stournara. Understood? Neither is Mrs Stournara.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u454	.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There are too many of them, and I have pre-empted the 'ENERGA' case, for which a special amendment has been tabled just before the start of the trial. That's to talk about a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u455	Mrs. Konstantopoulou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u456	I shall conclude, Madam President. My report, Mr Georgiadis, was in your own conflict of interest to participate in the preliminary committee to investigate the Lagard case, in which your wife is registered as a person with the account of her ex-husband, where there are gold rod records. I was expensive. I have told you before and I will tell you as many times as it takes: you have had a conflict of interest in participating and influencing this committee, on which it depends, and the treatment of depositors and associated persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u457	The Committee was adopted by a majority of its members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u458	Now that you are no longer influencing it, there may also be things that have been overdue by the media, which have also had people on the Lagard list. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u459	Mr. Rabbit has the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u460	Less. Madam President, let the Minister who wants us to speak and then vote for those who want, with you, and continue this debate. We don't care.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u461	I think that this debate has been concluded at this point. I will give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u462	Madam President, I will not abuse the right. I think that a debate was concluded which was very rich in consultation at the stage of the drafting of the bill to the committee and to the committee, where there was a very large number of bodies involved and I would say that they also affected the final form of the draft law, in which we are facing it at the moment. I really think that we could even better believe in helping ourselves, all the parties, in order to have contributions, which will give - what I said to the committee - to the Greek people a public broadcaster that deserves, a public broadcaster who will have credibility reserves that go beyond the political cycle. In relation to what the President said about ERT, they will of course also be taken into account in the next legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u463	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u464	I'm talking about ERT, Mr. Georgiadis. Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u465	I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u466	It is our duty to restore the sense of law at all levels, because I and the parliamentary majority - let me - do not feel that we are regaining the ERT at this time. ERT, we're opening it. The ERT will be won by the people who worked in it, who hurt about the ERT, who understood within this course of work and the struggles that they can do something very important for their country: to give it an institution that will offer the full, timely, the valid information. We are optimistic that it really starts a new day and will take a step in the opposite direction to the television scenery from what has been done so far. Thank you, Madam President, and I apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u467	Do not apologise, Minister. The debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of State: "Provisions of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Television Anonymous Company and an amendment of Rule 48 of the Prov. 2190/1920 and other provisions’. I propose here that we take a two-minute break and proceed to the vote afterwards. He asks whether he agrees with this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u468	The two minutes of interruption have been completed, which seems to have been needed by the House. You have already been distributed and the so-called 'incense' of the bill by the services it contains and the amendments which have been made through the debate and the acceptance of the amendments. Thank you very much for the services that have once again made the appropriate and over-reacting effort and responded so that we all have in front of us what is being voted on and not looking for the amendments, etc. We shall proceed to the vote on each article separately. As the vote is taken by a majority of the Members present, and we have a quorum as well, I would ask that it be heard loudly whether or not each Rule is accepted, and then I will give the floor to the rapporteurs of the groups to explain their vote when they are not in the majority. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u469	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u471	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u472	Article 1 is therefore accepted as it is by a majority, a minority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group who votes for 'NOI' and the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Groups and the JRC which declare 'PARAs'. If I do something wrong in the log, you'll fix me. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u474	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u476	Article 2 is therefore accepted as it is by a majority, a minority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group that votes 'ORI', the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group which states 'PACS' and the JRC Parliamentary Group which states 'PAC'. I would ask you, at the time when I speak to the groups, to open up the microphone for it to be heard. Is there another minority? So both the river and the PASOK vote 'NAH'. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u479	Article 3 is therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group voting for 'NOI' and the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, which states 'PARS'. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u482	Article 4 is therefore accepted as having a majority vote of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which votes 'OHS' and the JRC Parliamentary Group, which states 'PARAS'. Can Article 5, as amended by the Minister, be accepted? If you want us to listen to you, so people don't think it's an empty room. It's a crowded Chamber, and that's what matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u486	Article 5 is therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group voting for 'OH', the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, which states 'PARS' and the JRC Parliamentary Group which votes 'OH'. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u487	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u488	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u490	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u492	Article 6 is therefore accepted as being by a majority vote of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group which states "PARS", the Pompidou Parliamentary Group that votes "OH", the JRC Parliamentary Group that votes "OH" and the PASOK Parliamentary Group that votes "OH". Can Article 7, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u496	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u498	Article 7 is therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group voting for 'OH', the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group declaring 'PARS', the River Parliamentary Group voting 'OH', the JRC Parliamentary Group voting 'OH' and the PASOK Parliamentary Group voting 'OH'. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u504	Article 8 has therefore been accepted as being by a majority, acting by a minority of the three Members of the New Democracy who vote 'TO'...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u505	The Group of the Party of European Socialists, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u506	They are voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u507	The Group of the European People's Party is voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u508	The three of you who are present.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u509	What do you mean by that? Nice humor! I'm enjoying this. From tomorrow to see how I'm gonna have fun. You're laughing tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u510	... of the Members of the Golden Dawn who declare "PARS", the Members of the Parliamentary Group The River that votes for "THEI"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u511	Three people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u512	You've been sitting with PASOK together and confused. You do this many times, and you confuse me. ... of the JRC Parliamentary Group who votes "THEI" and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u513	Me being one to vote or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u514	...and this PASOK MEP who votes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u515	If you will allow me, I shall vote 'OR'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u516	Article 8 as a majority with the votes recorded was therefore accepted. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u522	Therefore, Article 9 was accepted as it is by a majority, minority voters of the Members of the New Democracy who vote 'OH', the Golden Dawn declared 'PARS', the JRC voting 'OH' and the 'OH' PASOK vote... You, Mr. Dannelly, have changed your mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u523	We never said "NEI". 'OH' we say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u524	And the Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats The river that votes 'NOVO'. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u530	Article 10 therefore has been accepted as it has by a majority, minority and minority voters of the Members of the New Democracy who vote 'OH', Golden Dawn who vote 'OH', the parliamentary group The Potami who votes 'OH' - the rapporteur, Mr Dannelis will speak - of the JRC who declare 'OHIM' and the present PASOK MEP who votes 'OH'. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u535	Article 11 has therefore been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority voters and minority voters of the New Democracy Members who vote for 'OHS', of the Members of the Golden Dawn who declare 'PARA'...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u536	The river shall vote 'NAH'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u537	The river shall vote 'NAH'. So you're not voting for it. We are now dealing with minorities. The JRC, which votes for 'OECD' and 'OECD'. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u543	Article 12 therefore, as amended by the Minister of State, acting by a majority, by minority vote and by a minority of the present Members of the New Democracy who vote for 'NOI', the Golden Dawn declared 'PAI', the Parliamentary Group The River that votes 'NOI', the JRC which votes 'OI' and the PASOK which states 'PAI'. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u547	Article 13 was therefore accepted as having a majority vote and a minority vote of the Members of the New Democracy who vote for 'NOH', the Golden Dawn declared 'PAH' and the Communist Party that declare 'PAH'. Is Article 14 accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u552	Article 14 has therefore been accepted, as amended by the Minister of State, acting by a majority, a minority and a minority of the Members of the New Democracy who vote 'NOV' and Members of Parliament from the Potami, the JRC and the PASOK, who declare 'PARGON'. Is Article 15 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u558	Article 15 therefore has been accepted as having a majority, a minority and a minority vote of the Members of the New Democracy who vote for 'NOH', the Golden Dawn declared 'PARS', the Members of the House from the River who vote 'OHS', the JRC who declare 'POSES' and the PASOK who vote 'OH'. Is Article 16 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u560	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u562	Article 16 therefore has been accepted as having a majority, a minority and a minority vote of the Members of the New Democracy who vote for 'NOI', of the Members of the Golden Dawn who vote 'PARS' and of the MPs who declare 'PAS'. We shall now proceed to the amendments. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 36 and a special number one as it stands? This is the amendment tabled by Mr Lafazanis concerning the reduction of the fees for LAGs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u563	So it's accepted by unanimity?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u564	Oh, no. We are in favour of this amendment, because Mr Lafazanis considered the amendments which we were not able to accept to be a coup d'état...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u565	Excuse me, Mrs. Vulture, may I catch up with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u566	...we don't vote for it. We told him too. We are not doing this for another reason, but for talking about a junta with a parliamentary cloak for too long here. So you will vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u567	Mr Georgiadis, as your parliamentary representative, who took the floor, said that he agreed that he was voting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u568	Oh, no. We are voting on the two amendments, Mrs Valavani and Mr Army. We have already told the Minister since the morning that for reasons of principle, we will not vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u570	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u571	The amendment, by a general number 36 and a special 1, was therefore accepted as it is by a majority and is part of the bill as an article itself, a minority and a minority vote by the Members of the New Democracy who vote for 'NO', of the Members from the Potami declaring 'PARS' and of the Members of the JRC who declare 'PAS'. Already for your convenience has already been distributed as Article 17, to see and how it will be in its final form. Can the amendment be accepted by a general number 47 and a special number 2? This is the amendment which Mrs Valavani has described and which I specifically asked for from all the parliamentary representatives and the rapporteurs present to be present. The only person who recorded that he had no objection to be introduced into and voted on and also to vote on the whole, but that would be the statement of the "PARON" was Mr Giokas from the JRC. So, if there is no other differentiation, it is the only minority. Can the amendment be accepted by a general number 47 and a special number 2?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u573	The amendment under number 47, and a special 2, has therefore been accepted by a majority, minority voters of the JRC who declare "PARS". Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 52 and a special number 4? This is an amendment which has also been discussed. It has been tabled since 20 April and is absolutely relevant. It is the addition to Article 14 of the draft new paragraph which provides that "by decision of the Board of Directors of ERT SA. is designated by a term of one year of temporary three-member management committee, the repealed ERT3 television station, which is part of the single body.’;
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u574	It was incorporated into the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u575	Oh, no. We vote separately and will be incorporated. Because it is laid as a paragraph, if there was some misunderstanding about the vote and someone would change their vote if it were not incorporated, we will record it now. But it must be voted on separately. It's an amendment. It must be accepted to be incorporated into the Article. Can the amendment be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u580	So the amendment, with a general number of 52 and a special 4, is accepted by a majority of the Members of the New Democracy and the River who voted for 'NOV' and the Golden Dawn and the JRC who declared 'PARS'. This amendment is accepted by a majority and will be included in Article 14 of the bill in the way you see it printed. If there is any clarification you would like to make about Article 14 in your vote, as it was before, until the end of the vote you do so. We are entering the vote on the amendment with a general number 97 and a special number 6. This is Mr Army's amendment concerning the extension of a deadline for applying for the regulation to be applied for under Article 28 of the Treaty. Regulation (EU) No 512/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2014, p. Here we have the statement from all the groups that they agree. There's no differentiation. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number 97 and a special number of six?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u581	The amendment with a general number 97 and a special 6 has therefore been accepted unanimously and will be included in the bill as the same article. The last of the votes is a great success. It will then become part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill on the entry into force. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u585	Therefore, the fare was accepted by a majority, a minority and a minority vote by the Members of the New Democracy who vote for 'NOH', of the Members of the Golden Dawn who declare 'PAH' and of the MPs who declare 'PAH'. Is there another minority? None. With these three minority votes in favour of Members present, the Chamber was approved by a majority. The House agreed about three hours ago that we will proceed to the vote on the bill and on the whole, although the Rules of Procedure normally provide that it is distributed and spent twenty-four hours. This is where he was distributed. It was not twenty-four hours ago, but three hours ago we agreed that we would follow this process. Therefore, if there is no objection, according to what has been said, we shall proceed to vote on the bill as a whole. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u586	So we move on to vote on the bill as a whole. Asked by this House: The Bill of the Ministry of State is accepted: "Confidentiality of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymity Company and an amendment of Rule 48 of the Prov. 2190/1920 and other provisions' and as a whole
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u592	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of State: “Confidentiality of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company, and Amendment to article 48 of the Rules of Procedure. 2190/1920 and other provisions’ has been accepted as a whole by the minority and minority voters of the New Democracy Members who voted 'NOH', the Golden Dawn declared 'PAHS', the River that votes 'NOH', the JRC declaring 'PAH' and the PASOK which votes 'NOH'. [[SYRIZA MPs upright applaud vividly and protractedly]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of State: "Confidentiality of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and Amendment of Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure". 2190/1920 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of them, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u593	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S2-commons.u594	With the consent of the House at 1.27' the sitting on Thursday, April 30, 2015, at 9.30', on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, reading reports and topical questions.
