ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to announce to the House the issue of Friday 3 April 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Arta Georgios Styriou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on speeding up the assessment of damage caused by natural disasters, in order for the Government to obtain in advance 10% of the Community support provided for by the European Union Solidarity Fund. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 71/23-3-2015 by Mr. Attica of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Casidiari to the Minister of State for the fight against corruption, on the report of the investigations of corruption cases of political persons and parties, as well as the grand depositors of the HSCB lists (Lagard), Luxembourg and so on. 3. The question asked by Mr Alexandros Hadjimitririou on 74/24-3-2015, by Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the prospects for the cultivation of sugar beet in our country and the operation of the "Greek Sugar Industry". 4. The Question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on compensation for loss of livestock from bluetongue epizootic disease. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 69/23-3-2015 by MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr. South Mitarakis to the Minister of State on digital television in the North Aegean. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 81/24-3-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the implementation of the anti-military work in Kefalochori of the Municipality of Konitsa. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group Mr Alexis Tsipras and a hundred and forty-eight Members of his party, as well as the President of the Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and twelve MPs of his party, tabled the proposal with protocol number 1352 from 31-3-2015 for the setting-up of an Examination Committee, for Greece to be placed in the Memorandum and for surveillance and for any other matter related to the implementation and implementation of the memorandums (according to Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 et seq. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: This proposal was printed and distributed to the groups on the day it was presented. It will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and signed on a special agenda for a parliamentary inspection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mrs Panayota Dritselli, to read the reports to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u3	The members of the Cyclades Nikolaos Manios, Antonios Syrigos, Nikolaos Srmaleneos present to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism a petition to the letter of five Serifos residents of Serifos about the restoration of OTE's phone connections to Serifos. Congressman Larissa Iro Piotis made reference to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, the letter of Mayor of Tempus calling for the immediate mobilisation of the ELGA mechanisms, so that there would be a first assessment of the situation and the immediate assessment of the damage caused by the frost. MEP Kastorias Evangelos Diamantopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction with Protocol No 877/23-3-2015 of the Municipal Council of the Municipal Council of the Municipal Council of the Municipal Council of the Municipal Council of the Municipal Council of the Municipal Council of Kastoria. MEP Yiannis Kefaloyannis filed a petition to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion Mr. Aristides Baltas on the subject: "Abrogation of the seventh six-month external section of the Department of Foreign Languages Translation and Interpretation of the Ionian University". Parliamentarians Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou filed a petition to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the letter of the Association of Parents and Gardens of the General School of Polygyros, denounced the use of inappropriate institutions for teaching, asking for a solution to the problem. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister of Health and Social Security on the mail that promoted the Metropolitan Social Physician of Greek regarding requests for coordination of social pharmacy doctors at Attica to remove debts to tax for hospitals of uninsured patients in the years of the crisis. MP Yiannis Koutsoukos submitted a report on "Direct actions for pollution caused by FARGECO" in the Municipality of Andravidis - Cyclones to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr.Lafazanis Panagiotis. MP Heraklion Michael Kritsotakis filed a report to the Minister for Health on the regulation of pharmacy operating hours. SYRIZA MP Aihan Karayusuf submitted a report to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Minister for Finance on the concession of the former DU Sappon building to the ownership of the Municipality of Marones Sappon. Parliamentary Hercules Mr. Ioannis Micheloganakis reports to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction the letter of workers to the Women's Advisory Centres of the General Secretariat of Gender Equality on "Continuance of the operation of the fourteen Women's Advisory Centres of the General Secretariat of Gender Equality". MEP Costas Katsafadas submitted a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the letter from the exorraisist club of Kastella Piraeus on the trolley routes of the Kastella - Drapetsona - Drapetsona line. Congressman Plackatotakis Ioannis filed a petition to the Minister of Finance Mr Varoufakis on compensation for oil producers due to acarp during the 2013-2014 crop season. Parliamentarians Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou filed a petition to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the letter from the GEOV Orestiad, calling for the damage to the North Evros infrastructure to be addressed from the floods. MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism in order to place himself on letters, complaints and memorandum promoted by e-mail from the association of workers at the "Creative Infrastructures S.A.", on a request for direct intervention by the responsible political leadership in response to the most serious, working nature, problems that have arisen in the organization over the last four years. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a petition to the Minister of Finance in order to place himself on the letter that was promoted by e-mail from the Panhellenic Association of Geographical and Business Professionals, concerning its complaints about the fact that, in order to carry out the work launched by a green maintenance competition in the premises of the Olympian and Heritage Committee, the contractor, in the absence of a review of the conditions for the execution of the declared project, would have to make tax interventions or act contrary to the obligations of the contract of supply. MEP Nikos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and to the Minister of Finance on "Anagis to rescue the shipyards of Neorio Syros". Congressman Xanthi Hussein Zeybeck submits a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy the information note by engineer Zernidis Nikolaos, which aims to record the process of controlling the legalisation file in the old town of Xanthi and proposes two possible solutions so that it does not need its complete demolition and reconstruction in the first place. MEP George Panzas submits a report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion on the subject: "Abrogation of the seventh semester abroad of the Department of Foreign Languages Translation and Interpretation of the Ionian University". The MPs Nikos Moraitis and Nikos Karathanasopoulos report to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy the resolution of the Athens Association calling for measures to protect and compensate the inhabitants of their village, which was affected by landslides. Congressman Nikos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the need for initiatives to solve problems of Agialea. MEP Nikos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject "A need for all sacrifices of staff in the DEEAP". Congressman Nikos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject "Assatisfactory of serious staff and work outstandings exposed by the Panhellenic Pyrotechnic Association". MEP Nikos Nikolopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Education, Culture and Religion, in order to place himself on a letter and on a number of other issues that were promoted by the Patras Cycling Group, concerning the call for the strengthening of a traditional cycling group and the restoration of debts of the Greek public towards him. SYRIZA MEP Ioannis Micheloganakis reported to the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity the letter of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Food Workers and Officials of Tourism Professions on the complaint of a specific undertaking for illegal and unreported practices. SYRIZA MEP Ioannis Michaloganakis filed a petition to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the letter from the elected member of the Services Council of Heraklion on the granting of maternity rights and other parental benefits to a new mother. MEP George Vlachos submitted to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction the letter for the unexplained action of the leadership of the Greek Police to order the DIA Group 223, based in Nea Makri of the Municipality of Marathona, was patrolling the areas Rafina, Marathona, Graphic and Barnava, to leave the area and to operate henceforth in Pallini as PHAS 203, offering its services in the areas of Pallini, Gerakas and Anthousa. The MPs Akis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou reported to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs the text of the actors of the State Theatre of Northern Greece calling for a definitive solution to the chronic problems. Congressman Nikos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity the letter and resolution of the Association of Pensioners of the U.S.A., in which a series of protests on taxation issues, increased costs of life and health problems were made. MP Dimitris Kammenos reported to the Minister of Finance the letter of the Pan-Hellenic Real Estate Owners Federation on the abolition of two memorandum arrangements on income tax. MP II Piraeus Mr Dimitrios Kammenos reported to the Minister of Health and Social Security the letter of the Syros Shipyards on the release of the company's bank accounts and the CEO. Parliamentarians George Marinos and Yiannis Giokas filed a petition to the Ministers of Interior, Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Education and Religious Affairs, and protests by the municipal council of Karystos on the interruption of work on the Provincial Road Porto Lafia - Polypotamos. The members of the Cyclades Nikolaos Symλeneos, Antonis Syrigos and Nikos Manios submitted a report from the Prosecutor of Paros Konstantinos Bizas on a request for the creation of an OAU office in Paros to the Ministers for Labour, Social Solidarity, Social Security. Parliamentarians Diamanto Manolakos, Giannis Giokas and Liana Kanellis reported the resolution of the Municipality of Korydallos calling for the trial of Golden Dawn to be held at the Athens Court of Appeal. MP Demetrios Kammenos filed a report from Mayor Korydallos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the decision to hold the trial of the indictees of the Golden Dawn in the women's ward of prisons. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction of the letter that was promoted by mail from the Mayor of Pyrgos, asking for immediate intervention, on the lack of legal means of temporary management of waste. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos made reference to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction Environment and Energy the memorandum that was promoted by mail from the Director of Panayialiolios Association of Cooperatives on requests - proposals from the meeting of the Cooperatives of the Peloponnese and Ionian Islands. MP Dimitrios Kammenos reported to the Minister of Justice the letter of the Union of Contributors and Friends of Greek Dead Heroes who fell to 1940-1941. The letter mentions the Union's request for the immediate expulsion of the fallen in the so-called Sacred Zone of Height 731. MEP George Panzas filed a petition to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, National Defence, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, the letter from the Evryal Society of Voula on "Protecting the Fortified Multi-pilots of the Aquarium against Voula from the threatened business exploitation of the island". MEP George Kasapidis submitted a report to the Ministers for Labour, Health and Social Security, Productive Reconstruction, Environment, Energy and Justice, the resolution of the Pensioners' Association of Ptolemais, informing the relevant ministers of the Association. The MPs Nikos Karathanasopoulos and Nikos Moraitis filed a petition to the Minister of Justice about the letter signed by penitentiary officials, denounced the conditions in which the prisoners live and works the staff of the Patras detention store and ask for measures to resolve the problems. MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Finance, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Ministers, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs Ministers, Labour and Social Solidarity, as promoted by the Special Secretariat of the Bureau of the Parliament of the Pan-Hellenic Union of Associations of Families with Three Tekna, which deals with calls made by the latter to take legislative initiatives to support multiple families, in order to address the country's demographic problem. MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity, the letter that was promoted by e-mail from the Federation of Multiple Families with Three Teks of Greece OPTTE, on a request - their proposal for the assimilation of third families with the luxurious ones. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, the letter that was promoted by mail from the Association of Teachers and Preschool Educational Regions of Tower, on the serious problem posed by the non-collection of garbage and their stay in piles for a long period of time within the city of Pyrgos. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Minister of State, Finance and Minister for Health and Social Security, in order to place on the letter a group of citizens making up the Union of "Latvia Payments" and the Municipal Order of Heraklion "Direct Democracy", which contains requests for a number of initiatives to be taken to bring relief to the affected ranks of our society. MEP George Panzas filed a petition to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the letter from the Municipality of Megares on "Olympic Interests of OLYMPIA S.A.". MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos reported to the Ministers of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs and the Minister of Health and Social Security the letter that was promoted by the National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities, concerning its requests and proposals on the draft law to address the humanitarian crisis. MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion on the appeal letter of the Byzantine Patriarchate to the members of the European Parliament, as promoted by the Special Secretariat of the Bureau of Parliament, on the need to stop hostilities in Ukraine. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a reference to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism the letter promoted by the Association of Ministries of Middle Education, ELME Achaia, concerning a request for a drastic reduction in the capital of housing and repair loans, while reducing the interest rates, corresponding to the dramatic cuts in employees' wages, the increases in taxes and the increase in the cost of living of the latter. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Ministers for Labour and Social Solidarity and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction the letter that was promoted by the Panhellenic Federation of Five Years of Obligation and Contracting Firefighters, on their request for a modification of the B.C. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. MP Dimitris Kyriazidis filed a petition to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy of the letter that was promoted by the Drama Producer market, which rightly calls for the activation of the provisions of the n. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 4235/2014 as regards the operation of the market for producers. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, to place them on the memorial letter and press release promoted by Mr Konstantinos Dimitrakopoulos on behalf of the partners of the Cooperative Bank of Lamia, on requests for information on the movement of accounts, the imposition of sanctions on members of the administration and the avoidance of auctions of the partners' real estate. MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Protest of workers in tobacco industries for the policy of overtaxation of tobacco products", by letter promoted by the Federation of Smoking Workers of the country. MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Finance about an e-mail received from the Association of Greek Apostates and Spirits on the request for favourable arrangements. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Finance on a letter from the Industrial Ethnic Association and Piraeus on their request to regulate late payments to the public. Deputy Prime Minister Ioannis Vroutsis submitted a report to the Ministers for Home Affairs, Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Sleeping in the process of a contractor for the building of a kindergarten in Milos". MEP George Vlachos filed a petition to the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "Day-conferences to deal with infrastability in Aspropyrgos". Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on an e-mail received from the Panhellenic Firefighting Association of five-year-olds on the call made in their memorandum on equal treatment in labour matters. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity to place himself on the letter that was promoted by e-mail from Mrs Leta Vassilopoulos as Press and Public Relations Committee spokesman for the Creative Patterns Committee regarding requests and proposals. The MPs Stavros Tasos, Diamanto Manolakos and Manolis Syndrakis reported to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism the letter of Mayor of Lemnos to address the extreme weather conditions that occurred on March 7 and 8 on the island. MEP Nikolaos Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Health and Social Security in order to place himself on the letter promoted by Vlaios Destheni, President of the Association of Workers of Thorakos Diseases of the General Hospital of Patras on a complaint concerning the abolition of functions and parts of the Thorakos Nursing Unit, but also on a number of other shortcomings and malfunctions. MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Ministers for Labour and Social Solidarity, Home and Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, which was promoted by Mrs Lociopoulou Penelope, on behalf of the Association for Primary Education, Nicosia, Baby Aiders and other specialities of the Municipality of Thessaloniki, as signed by the President of the Association, on a request from the Association for the restoration of the full hours of work. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy in order to place himself on a press release promoted by the Association of PPC Technical Groups - KEE, where, apart from the support for the lifting of members' requirements, the expectation of the Government's announcements on the appropriate handling of PPC's future. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction for Environment and Energy the letter promoted by the EVA Trade Union on a request to address the operational and labour problems of workers in the EGM.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, can we not do half the reports? Can we discuss the timelines after the other half?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u5	It's taken for granted how we do it. I informed you a moment ago. Before I give the floor to Mr. Kefaliannis to continue, let me, ladies and gentlemen, to make you aware that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-three students and students and two trainers from the High School of Mandamanos Lesvos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of State, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Culture, Education and Religion, Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Economic, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, and the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Economic and Economics, Infrastructure and Tourism have submitted to the House a draft law entitled "Consolidation of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and an amendment to Rule 48 of the Law. 2190/1920.’ Also, the Ministers for Economic and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and the Deputy Minister of Finance submitted to the House a draft law titled "Definition of 27 March 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Additional regulation on the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry S.A. and dues’ (A'35)’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Mr. Kefaliannis continues with the reading of the reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u6	Report by Hercules Leuteris Ausgenakis to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction requesting the adoption of relevant acts in order to grant maternity rights, as defined by the Act, Articles 58, 59 and 60 of the Act. 3584/2007, and to the new mother. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on a letter from the Firefighting Association Five-years of Obligation and Contractors of East Macedonia - Thrace, on proposals from the administration of this club for the homogenisation of the Firefighting Body. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on a memorandum from the Association of Elafonissos scientists concerning a request from his representatives to stop including Elafonissos in the portfolio of TEAD, in order to stop the efforts to strengthen the natural wealth of the island from foreign interests. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of National Defence on a letter from the Union of Military Region of Central Macedonia concerning a request to resolve problems facing many families of soldiers in the service of coupled military personnel. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on a letter from the Coordination Committee of Separate Multitude Educational Teachers 2010, concerning their request not to become an AEP competition with regard to the recruitment of teachers and, as a matter of priority, to appoint those belonging to closed lists, after their previous appointment. Report by MP Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on a serious matter of amateur sports clubs in Magnesia. Report by Congressmen Stavros Tassos, Diamonds Manolakou and Manolis Co-chair to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the resolution from the concentration of solidarity among the unpaid seamen of the NEL vessel by the Samos Labour Centre. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and to the Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the letter promoted by the Panhellenic Federation of Fuel Traders. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the request for human resources support from Achaia police forces in the 2015 transfer plan. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Health and Social Security, on complaints about a series of maladministration incidents at the Board of Directors of the Centre for Social Welfare of the Region of Western Greece. Report by Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Health and Social Security, which concerns workers within Welfare Centres providing services to children of Achaia and Elias. Report by MPs Nikos Karathanasopoulos and Nikos Moraitis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on a letter signed by penitentiary officials denounced the conditions in which the prisoners are living and works by the staff of the Patras detention store. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on a letter from the Panhellenic Federation of Five Years of Obligation and Contracting Firefighters.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u7	Isn't there a limit on how many reports a Member can make?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u8	Mrs. Libertyraki, we're in a process. You don't have the floor now. You're welcome. Continue, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u9	Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, as well as to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, calling for the system of the single price of the book to be restored in agreement with the Association of Greek Books. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the Minister of Finance on a resolution by the Municipality of Kalamata on the claim of German allowances and the loan. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of National Defence about an email from the Union of Military Regions of Thessaly, E.R. Report by Congressman Constantine Damavon to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, and to the Deputy Minister for the Environment, on the relocation of taverns to the National Park. Report by Congressmen Stavros Tassos, Diamonds Manolakou, Manolis Synthyaki to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on a letter from the Federation of Limnical Associations expressing their strong protest about the state of the coastline interconnection between Lemnos and Ai Strati. Report by Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity and to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on a resolution from the General Council of the ADEDY. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on a letter from the Federation of Technical Training Officers. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on an e-mail from the Mayor of Western Achaia, requesting the financial support of his municipality in the face of enormous needs, due to circumstances of exceptional weather and pre-existing sighness. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of National Defence on an electronic letter from the Union of Military Region of the Peloponnese, requesting the adoption of a proposed amendment for the development of long-term volunteers. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on an e-mail from the Macrassian Volunteers Association of Armed Forces, requesting the equal hierarchical treatment of volunteers of n. 1848/1989 with his volunteers. Article 44 of Regulation No 705/1977 and Article 445/1974. Report by the MPs Sakis Bardalis and Helen Gerasimidou to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on a memorandum from the Agricultural Cooperative of Common Agricultural Exploitation of Tychur Evros on the flooding and total destruction of the farms in the packing and memoir of ASKGE Tycheros Evros. Report by Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on an electronic letter from the Union of Volos and Thessaly Consumers, in which there are forty ways of deceiving citizens through electronic means. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Health, on an e-mail from the National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities, on the proposals for the disabled movement to the new government. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on an e-mail from the Federation of Chemical Industries of Greece, in which a call is made for the immediate launch of what the Minister of National Defence pointed out and recognised as necessary. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on an e-mail from the Secretariat of the Greek Parliamentary Group, on the open letter from the Tritecna Federation, on the need for wider support measures for the children of its members. Report by Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on a letter from the President of the Cultural and Morphic Association of Helik Municipality of Aegiale "ONES" on a request for a grant from the Association following an evaluation. Report by MPs Nikolaos Syrmalenios, Antonis Syrigou and Nikos Maniou to the Minister of Health and Social Security on the subject of covering a vacancy of a nurse at the Agrarian Hospital of Anafis. Report by MP Konstantinos Tsiras to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the provision of credits for the restoration of damage to the Municipality of Karditsas. Report by MPs Manolis Syntagakis and Diamantou Manolakou to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on a letter from the Municipality of Vianno, calling for exceptional financing for the municipality for the restoration of infrastructure due to the disasters suffered by the natural disasters. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, and to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on an e-mail from the publishing house PATAKI, requesting the reintroduction of the single price system of the book, in agreement with the Association of Greek Books. Report by Mr Heraklion Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Health and Social Security on the subject of "The necessary arrangements for insurance funds". Report by Congressmen Stavros Tassos, Diamonds Manolakou and Manolis Synthakis to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on a letter from the Mayor of Lemnos on dealing with the damage from the extreme weather phenomena that occurred on March 7 and 8 on the island. Statement by MP Heraklion Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health and Social Security on the subject: "Instead of increasing the risk of low pensioners having a reduction of EUR 600-700 due to the 15th pension". Report by Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the restoration of "GROGE" and OPECE.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u11	Can I say something, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u12	Not now, Mr. Kegeroglu. We've already spent a lot of time in the reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed with the number 75/24-3-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Chios MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the grant of the Association of Football Associations (CSF) through the Greek Football Federation (SG) in the year 2014. He is present and will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Stavros Kontonis. Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in June 2014, by decision of the then State Secretary for Sports, Mr. Andrianos, the amounts of the regular grant of the Amateur Football Associations for all categories (A', B' and C') local clubs amounting to EUR 1.34,800 were determined. In addition, the EUR 200,000 previously due to football clubs was also predicted. In August of the same year, the Ministry shall approve the payment of those amounts and the NCA shall immediately submit the relevant supporting documents. On 10 November the Minister responsible shall inform the HR that, due to its debts to the Police Insurance Fund, it cannot disburse the money because it is not taxly informed. The NCA immediately applies the debts to the Police Fund, even paying the sum of EUR 430,230, i.e. 30% of the grant, as laid down in the legislation. This was in December 2014. Thus, the NCA becomes aware, as declared by the IZ' DU Athens. However, a few days later by letter the Deputy Minister informs the SCA that, according to a document from the Financial Control Agency, it is not taxly informed about regulated debts of EUR 418,000 and that this is why there is a lack of disbursement of the grant money. Interestingly, there is, in the meantime, a document from the IZ' DU Athens, which states that the suspension of the tax information of the NGO is being imposed by mistake. With all this craving, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that has arisen is that three thousand eight hundred football clubs in the country have not received any subsidy for the year 2014 and fifty three associations have not received a single euro of about EUR 200,000. What happened to the rest of the money, which was planned for the grant of the unions? Have other underground routes been followed for the disposal of these amounts? How does the Ministry plan to fund football clubs, as it is known that they have no other way of regular grant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Michaelides. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the honourable Member for his question. I believe that what we are going to announce today in the House, which is also documented by public documents, is interesting. First of all, I would like to say that this grant was not regular, it was extraordinary. It was the extraordinary grant, which was approved in early September 2014 by a decision of the Deputy Minister of Culture of the previous government, Mr. Andrianos. Following this approval of the emergency - I repeat, not tactical, as has already been mentioned - we have a series of revealing public documents to understand what is happening in the field of professional sport and in the field of football. First of all, a document from the Court of Auditors, the Commissioner's Office, based in the former Ministry of Culture and Sport, is communicated on 19 November that this money, EUR 1.443,100, cannot be disbursed, because there is a debt of the NRA and this amount is therefore impossible to disburse. This is the first document. It really follows what my colleague said, evidence of intelligence, which the NCA is willing to receive, that it is informed taxly on December 1, 2014 by the IZ' DU Athens. This is December 1st. So, at first, we have a document from the Court of Auditors, which says that the NCA is not aware of tax and a document from the IKI of Athens after about ten days - a little longer - which says that the NCA is aware of and can disburse this money. The most interesting ones come and are revealed by a document dated 12-11-2014 of the General Accounting Office of the State, the Financial Control Agency based in the Ministry. So it states this document that the taxpayer owes regulated debts and is not taxly informed. Also, the Directorate-General for Financial Control reports that following a document from Athens IB' DU is not taxly informed, while the IZ' DU Athens said that the NU is taxly informed. What is the conclusion of all of these "wonderful" things? Here comes the DU which gave the information - the IZ' DU - and says that by mistake this information was given, because it is shown by the previous documents that I mentioned to you, the DUI responsible for the SUR was not the IZ' DU, which was directed by the NUI to obtain information, but the IB' DU. That is the situation, Mr Colleague, for what you are asking. So, instead of going to the DU to which it belongs, it went to another PSO and, while it was not taxly informed, it gets tax information! And the IZU, when this whole situation is discovered, sends a document and withdraws the tax information. Is it, then, ever possible to disburse this money and receive it further from the NCA and the football amateur unions? No, of course not. To inform you - although I have spent time, Mr President, I have been a little misused, take my time away from my denture - that the Minister for Sports of the previous government, Mr Andrianos - in my opinion correctly - has brought an extraordinary amendment to the House and has asked - for this money to be voted on by the Ministry to be able to place it directly to clubs and football associations. This amendment, Mr Colleague, has been accepted and it is the law of the state, but it has been voted on Christmas Eve and until this process has been completed, we have spent the new year, where we have before us the 2015 budget. Don't go on, Mr. President. I will answer the questions - I just have developed the history - about what is going to happen in my dentistry, not to abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Mr. Michaelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for the information you have given so far. I think you've corrected some of the facts that were referred to inadvertently. I would simply like to conclude by saying that, among the associations mentioned above, the need for this exceptional funding, which has gone through all this cynical that you have mentioned, is the twenty-eight unions of Chios, which have been abandoned in their destiny. I would like to inform you that they really grow, with an agonizing efforts by administrations and players, but above all by the athletes and their families, who put their hand deep in the pocket to keep the clubs alive. Maintaining the lives of amateur football clubs I think it's a real lifelong breath for local communities. If we say that sport in every form helps to remove and abuse all kinds, dependency on the Internet and so much else, I think we have a duty to practically support amateur football, which, in my opinion, is the healthiest - perhaps - and the most hopeful part of football sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Michaelides. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I continue from where I have stopped and will reply to the last questions from my colleague, whom I agree - there is no doubt about that. What's happened? This money was to be deposited in amateur football. There have been the situations that I described. You understand, Mr Colleague, who is responsible for these situations, for certificates issued by unauthorised DUs, which confirms things that should not be confirmed. It was neither the previous leadership of the Ministry nor of course the present one. What have we done? We received a budget for sport reduced by 12 million euros. This money has been incorporated into this budget and we have made a total reallocation of all the funds, so that there is a balance between expenditure and grants. If there is any possibility of further emergency funding, we will ask for it, and of course we will give it to amateur unions, which are really going through difficult hours. But you must know that at the moment we are talking about the OPs, an amount of EUR 540,000, which will be disbursed directly and attributed to amateur unions. Mr Colleague, it is not just the unions of Chios that grow, it is the unions of all of Greece and, first of all, the ones of my country, Zakynthos. But I would like to remind you once again that the Greek Football Federation is responsible for this case. And that should be understood by everyone. We do not mention these practices at international meetings, which the Ministry of Sports is doing, so that we can also inform the foreign players who come to the country and defend certain situations. Because we do not want to expose the Greek Football Federation, because we believe that such a report harms the country. However, we must all realise in this place that Greece is a complex rule of law, that the law and the Constitution will apply in every direction and uncontrolled and autonomous island does not exist or recognize the Greek legal order. We will discuss this in detail in the draft law, which is already on hand for consultation. At the moment, I have to tell you that we are making an intense effort, on the one hand, to house the economic issues relating to sport and to limit the costs and, on the other hand, to have a substantial control over where the last euro of the taxpayer is going. You should know, ladies and gentlemen, that after decades of re-establishment we have just taken over the Court of Auditors, which will also monitor amateur unions and federations for the funding they receive. Because from 2000 to 2015 that brought money into these funds, about EUR 1 billion, no control was carried out and we had no effect. Everyone should therefore know that they will also be controlled for the last euro and whether there are shadows or not. That is what I have to say, Mr President, and I am very grateful to my colleague once again for the opportunity to give me this information. I am tabling all the documents, which I read in the Minutes of the House, for information to both the House and the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. We continue with our second question under number 66/23-2015, first-round question of the New Democracy MP, Ioannis Brutsi to the Ministers for Labour and Social Solidarity and Social Security, on the first binding measures of the Government on the insurance system in the Eurogroup agreement text. He is present and will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Dimitrios Army. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. It is known that our country's insurance system is going through time-consuming diseases, inequality, distortions. The previous government for two and a half years has fought a continuous and lasting battle to house it, to remove inequalities, to make it more effective and fairer. Of course, in no case do anyone have to deal with it with party idealism or logic, which unfortunately governs the current government of demagogy and populism. I say these, Mr President, because, while we are in the middle of the negotiations or just before the end of the negotiations for the finalisation of the measures to be taken by the Government to be voted on in the House on 20 February, Mr Varoufakis, in the context of the consultation with the Troika, committed himself to a series of measures on insurance, which have to do - and are also in my topical question - firstly, with the consolidation of the insurance funds, secondly, with the abolition of so-called'social funds' and, thirdly, with the abolition of early retirements. So the question to the Minister is whether these three packages have been decided on whether to implement them, when to implement them and what is its plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr. Army has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u24	First of all I would like to thank the questions raised by the former Minister for Labour and now by Mr Bruts. They are indeed questions that concern the insured. I want to answer directly, Mr Brutsi, that these three issues are not a priority of the government. The priority we have at this time - and you are very well aware of it - is to prevent pension cuts in pensions, both major and subsidiary, the one-off benefits and the reduction of the beneficiaries of the ESA, which the previous government had launched and which had been reflected in the budget and which, if applied, would be removed from the pockets of pensioners of EUR 500 million in addition to the EUR 6 billion lost by the demolition of pensions in the previous five years. As far as the three specific questions are concerned, however, I shall refer to each one separately. As far as the so-called - because many of them are not even social resources - are increased employers and workers' contributions fixed by agreement and collective bargaining or by contract of trade unions of the space and the corresponding employers -'social resources', the government does not have such an orientation and from what you have seen it is not included in the final list of reforms it has submitted. And it has no such orientation, because there have been few so-called'social resources' left only in the main pensions. As far as you know, creditors' pressures are concerned, they refer to the Legal Fund and to the ad and the government's intentions that these so-called'social resources' should not be abolished. On the contrary, yes. The study, which we have done, Mr Brutsi, is that the abolition of the memoranda of forty-two so-called'social resources', in particular from the subsidiary funds and the one-sided one-sided one-sided funds, has caused terrible problems in these insurance funds, with the Equity Fund being reduced to 60% to 80%, in which if the so-called'social resource' is not restored, 3% to public procurement, it would lead its beneficiaries to reductions of 60% to 80%. That is why we will not simply abolish, but we are also in a process of reviewing such so-called'social resources' that have been abolished by your government. As far as the subject of unification is concerned, the first thing we have to do is to set up a credible committee of scientists who hold the issue well and who, with the participation of the relevant social actors, will first study whether and what the unifications made in the previous years have been and, secondly, whether certain consolidations need to be carried out prioritised and credible, that substantial and constructive dialogue be preceded with the workers' and insured parties concerned, and in no case, if we need to carry out unifications, they will not be carried out by demolition, by compressing, with a level playing field, with the lowest level of insurance rights. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of early retirement, we in Greece do not call them premature but reduced pensions because, you know, for those who have a legal right to use for every year, who leave the general pension line, they are down by 6%. So we have said that there is a large, neoliberal, ideological obsession with neoliberal circles in the Eurozone and the so-called partners of the country with this issue. While, Mr Brutsis, you know very well that from the elements of ELIOS it appears that only 11% of old age pensions are the so-called 'prematures' or on the substance, as we call them,'reduced pensions'. In no case do we want to harmonise and harm the fundamental rights of women working with minors, workers in the heavy and unhealthy professions, people with disabilities, teachers and those who had been retired, the old insured, before 1983. What we will do - and we are already doing - are extreme situations such as those created by banks or privately privatised ECHO with voluntary exits, which led to black holes in the insurance funds, these cases and these practices will be cut off by the knife. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Brutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I have heard the Minister, and I would like to tell him at the outset that the insurance policy is not being treated either with good intentions or with ideological obsession or with wishes. And you and the entire government for three months that have ruled the place, move only on this axis, continue as if you were opposition with a pretext and a promise. Finally, you must understand that you are a government, because all that you have said and the good intentions and wishes must be assisted by good funding, and in no case will you say where you will finance the insurance. Because if you are moving into the logic of'sum today', you are actually leaving the bomb of the insurance company in a very short time to explode at the expense of the workers, the current pensioners and the next generations. We will not allow this to happen, Minister. Get your responsibilities on you and move on the axis and reason and responsibility. We do not play with national issues like insurance. In any case, Mr President, three days ago the Prime Minister at a step had said that all the matters involved in the negotiation would be, first and foremost, in knowledge of the Members and the Greek people. I am listening today to the Minister, who voids to me, with what he said, the Baroufakis list, which said these three things about which I have tabled today and the question and says that they do not exist. To what? In the new mail Baroufakis, which is now informally unsigned, we are learning it through the media, which the Minister has announced. Anyway, on this issue too, look at you being more serious, Minister. The House cannot be informed through websites and the Internet. These are serious national issues. And since the Minister of Finance, Minister, cannot the House and the Greek people learn about the positions of the Greek Government in negotiation through websites and the Minister of Insurance today cancel your previous signature for binding measures on insurance, say that it is not a priority of the government and official the new ones we learn through the media. That's tragic. In any case, Mr Minister, because the insurance issue is very serious and I would remind you that there has never been any uncertainty about pension payments in the past. And to be more precise, only during the election period in mid-2012, there was a relative uncertainty and concern in the world if there was no agreement with Europe. For the first time in Greece there is the feeling that pensions and salaries will not be paid. I hear your priorities that wages and pensions will be paid as a priority, but do not forget that at the same time you have made about 1.5 billion internal payment stops in an accounting way, which gives the financial capacity to pay salaries and pensions. If the agreement does not come, we all know it in this Chamber that things will be tragic, if not this month, next month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr. Army has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u28	The first thing I wanted to say to Mr Brutsi is this: First of all, what we will not do at all is that we will not put at risk a single euro on pensions. Our government as a whole has said that it guarantees the payment of the last euro for pensions. The second, Mr Brutsi, is our priority and has been clearly and unequivocally reflected in the reforms that Mr Varoufakis has put forward on behalf of the Government and the Ministerial Council, is that we will not make the agreements made by your Government with the troika, which were reflected in the 2015 state budget and the current medium-term programme. Therefore, we will no longer reduce supplementary pensions by abolishing the zero deficit clause, we will not apply the new mathematical formula for one-off pensions, which leads to 30% to 80% reduction, but a new formula that takes into account what the insured over all these years have given contributions, together with a technical interest rate that reflects reality and does not lead to reductions, compared to those who have taken one-off up to 31-8-2013. Also, we will definitely repeal provisions of Law 3863/2010 and Law 3865/2010, which have been gradually beginning to lead to reductions in main pensions this year. What we will also certainly do - and which, like the previous ones, Mr Varoufakis has captured with economic sizes in the proposed reforms - is not to limit the number of beneficiaries of the CSCE, which you agreed and captured in the budget, saying that you will save from it EUR 82 million. We will be consistent in our pre-election and programming commitment that as a first step in restoring the major pension losses, which have taken place at the expense of insured and retired in the years of the memorandum, it will be the reintroduction of the 13th pension, which will be received on 20 December 2015 by pensioners who have an income of up to 700 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u29	Anything Easter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u30	I talked about the Christmas present. That's what we said about those who retire up to 700 euros. Alexis Tsipras said so in Thessaloniki as chief of the opposition officer at the time, we said it in the election, said so, Mr. Tsipras as Prime Minister, and Mr. Varoufakis has captured it in reforms. Therefore, all these commitments and the legislative arrangements that we need to do so that there are no new reductions in major and supplementary pensions, CSR, one-off, etc., have been fully reflected in the reforms submitted by Mr Varoufakis. With regard to the second question you asked me, in other words, where we will find the resources to implement these first reforms, the manners are again described in the text of reforms submitted by the Treasury, namely, the Government. There it says that 100m euros will be saved from dealing with black, uninsured and undeclared work. It clearly describes what the practices and controls will be that will lead to this result. It also says in this text that 150 million euros will be saved this year from the treatment of tax evasion and in exactly what way. Also - as far as the second point is concerned - it says that there will also be cooperation with the International Labour Office, ILO, on best practices used mainly in Europe to deal with tax evasion. That is also where it is reflected that since the EUR 1.5 billion that we expect as revenue this year - from the improved arrangements that we have made for the debts to the insurance funds - we will save the additional EUR 300 million, from what the previous governments have had to deal with and will be used for this purpose. The most important thing is that we will set up a National Rich and Social Security Fund, which will have revenue from the better use of public property and the country's natural and mineral wealth. Part of this revenue will mainly go to social policies and social security. We therefore describe what needs to be done in order not to lead to even greater misfortune between pensioners and the insured and included in the reforms that our government wants, seeks and promotes. After all, we have described where the resources will be saved. It's not just a question of accounting. First of all, it is a matter of humanity and social policy that we must finally stop the destruction of pensions and poverty, impoverishment and the desperation of pensioners. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, could I give you a little parentheses?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u33	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u34	Mr Brutsi, I know that you know that the negotiation, which is taking place at the moment, is a national matter and I take it as a given that we are together. We may disagree, but we're united.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u35	You're right. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u36	In fact, I want to tell you about what you said, that you are absolutely right. Absolutely right! It is unacceptable that the Greek people and our fellow European citizens should be informed of the positions of the Greek Government. I tell you - and you know, of course - that this was not our choice. Firstly, the negotiations are conducted in a way that requires full confidentiality for what is said in there and full confidentiality and your proposals. Personally, I am telling you that I consider this confidentiality to be contrary to the interests of Europe. I would very much like these proposals at the same time as we are discussing them at the Brussels Group, to be able to make them available to the Greek and European public, because this alleged confidentiality with all these leaks undermines the confidence of Europeans in the European institutions' procedures. I must tell you that we have made a request as a Greek Government for these proposals to be made public at various stages. These proposals were rejected on the basis of the fact that Eurogroup and Euroworking Group are not working so well and we see that at the moment our proposal for information is rejected and our partners and citizens of Greece and Europe, at the same time this particular text is passed on by Mr Peter Spiegel to the "FINANCIAL TIMES". I assure you, we haven't leaked it. I can assure you that I would have liked to keep this in mind of the public in order to discuss it. Unfortunately this is how Europe works, and in my opinion it is something that needs to be changed. But you have my full support for what you said, namely that this kind of confidential procedure undermines the confidence that our peoples have in what their governments do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u37	We move on to the debate of the sixth under number 77/24-3-2015 on a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou on the delay in the introduction of the 12,000 euro tax. The Minister will answer Mr. Yanis Varoufakis. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, Minister, to raise a big question in the context of this question, on which you have made public the Government's position. This is no longer the right position of the government that there must be no real measures and that you will not agree to substantial measures. But in practice with the time and delay of the agreement, unfortunately the great recession is caused by the bleeding of all the money from public funds, agencies and banks, so that we can be in line with our international obligations. This, unfortunately, is the practice of the recession that you are following. In particular, however, today I would like you to answer a point. It has emerged in the morning in many DUs - and especially in Crete - that you have given an oral order to the directors of the DUs not to return VAT to more than EUR 10,000, even though it is all right. Many farmers, therefore, who have obligations and commitments and need this money - and the market needs this money - are now trapped in the oral mandate given by the Treasury. See if you can answer today. I now come to the essence of the question about a justice measure, in my view, regarding the EUR 12 000 tax. We have to be clear. We need to know what you are negotiating for this, if you are negotiating it, and if you need to negotiate it, because it was not said in an election that it would be negotiated, it was said as a commitment to implement it. The question is whether the EUR 12 000 tax will be realised and when. The second question concerns an important issue, the change in the system of taxation for farmers with books of revenue - expenditure for last year's income, which is the first time, but which has not been given the opportunity for many reasons to have, either because of a lack of information or because of a lack of information from the scheme in force, for example, for the insurance of many categories of migrants working in our country, the documentation on costs. Therefore, apart from the question about the tax rate of EUR 12 000 - which is linked to farmers, because if it is applied, then the problem that will be raised - the second question is whether you will follow what the previous government has decided, give the possibility of justifying costs, a 20% of the turnover for the first year of application as costs, which will not need to be documented, in order to find a solution to this problem that has arisen. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for your question. I will start with what you said at the beginning and asked you as a question. You have asked me, and you have resigned - if the ongoing negotiations creates a suffocation on the market and why this negotiation is slowing down and not closing. There is no doubt that the ongoing negotiation involves these components of uncertainty and insecurity on the markets, it creates liquidity problems and therefore has an impact negative. On the other hand, however, you know very well what it means to negotiate. We are negotiating the future of Greece right now, as some have negotiated it or did not negotiate it in 2010 and after 2012. Let me just say it, we could have closed the negotiations now, Mr Kegeroglu. It could have been last week, over the last four weeks. Additional pensions should have been reduced by 70% to 80%. We should have accepted an increase in VAT taxation on the islands. We should have done what the e-mail Hardouvelis said. We should have given further impetus to the self-supported crisis over the past five years. Is that what you're telling me? Are you telling me that we were mistaken because we did not sign up for all that the Greek people chose us not to sign and sent you to the chairs of Anti-Population, because you promised them? If that is something that is your position, I would be very pleased to have expressed it very well. But let us now come to tax. Indeed, Mr President, the introduction of a tax-free amount of 12 000 will give everyone breath, especially those most affected, taxpayers - if possible - in a civilised country from the first euro. The abolition of duty was a great shame, and I am sure that you, too, introduced it and voted for it - because it was done for the days of the PASOK government - you were not feeling well when you did it. I know that and I don't say it ironically. I cannot believe that at the time you proposed it, you were dominating it and pushing it forward, colleagues from the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement felt well with their conscience when, for 2011, you lowered duty-free from 12 000 to 5 000, after 2013, you nullified it, replacing it with a discharge of EUR 2.100 to those who brought proof and last year you abolished this tax exemption for free professionals. Now that the Greek people have decided on these policies, you are suddenly in a hurry to reinstate the tax-free of 12 000 euros. But we, Mr Kegeroglu, are really in a hurry. I assure you that we are voiding in the negotiations, which would be cancelled and never done if we subscribed to the E-mail Hardouvel, which you signed. He'll return the tax free. I am referring to the statements made by Deputy Minister Nadia Valvann in the government's programme statements to the House. The second half has said that the new tax system will be established, which will apply to the incomes of 2015 that will be declared in 2016. The new tax system will establish the duty-free limit and the single and progressive scale with many ratings. That is what we promised, that is what we will do. With regard to the method of taxing farmers, Mr President, I believe that the parliamentary work would be helpful if the colleagues asked the relevant Minister, Mrs Valvani, their questions. But since I'm here today, I'll answer it. After the vote on the new Code on Income Tax. 4172 in force since 1-1-2014, the calculation of the income of farmers by the previous method has been abolished. On the basis of the new code that the previous government has brought to Parliament and presented as a large section of the tax system, some interpretative circulars have been issued by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which stipulates that from 1-1-2014 the determination of profits from agricultural activities will be done in an accounting manner: revenues minus costs. Therefore, if you have regretted and do not want to support what the government has supported, please put forward your own proposal on the issue of farmers' taxation in the Deputy Minister, who is responsible for this matter, and if it is thoroughly in your proposal to be sure that it will be considered. Finally, with regard to what you said, with regard to an oral order to some DU in Crete, we will look into it. I am not aware of this matter. I believe that tax refunds should be made on time. You should be aware that the Greek Government and the Ministry of Finance in these suffocating conditions created by the lenders, by imposing on us policies which you neither want to impose, optimise the way in which budget and tax issues are managed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, which organizes twenty students and students and two teachers - attendants from the 13th Municipal School of Piraeus. It is also known in the House from the top Western theories that they attend the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" hall forty-seven students and students and three attendants - teachers from the 10th High School of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u42	First of all, Mr President, you must inform the Minister - to know - that the Bureau of Parliament requires questions to be addressed to the Minister and that questions are not received by the relevant Office when they are addressed to substitute ministers. That is a matter for the Bureau. That's the point, please. Let me tell you that in parliamentary control the Minister is answering. He's not coming to put a question to the honourable Member. That's what this is about. I hope your speech is different, because your first speech was a question of control to the Member. The exact opposite is parliamentary control and it does not hurt to take a look at the Rules of Procedure and the relevant articles. I don't call it disgraceful. It is the suppression of Parliament's function for tens of years now. The analysis you carried out showed that there was no abolition of duty-free PASOK. There has been a reduction, but not a break-up. But at first you spoke differently. You know very well that 'what you say at first is what counts and passes'. You're comin'. You must prove that you are not just communication, and that is why, in fact, you are negotiating the fate of the country. We would be happy, of course, not to authorize anyone to negotiate it, but to negotiate it yourself. The authorization you've made, I think, is causing more problems. You mentioned the time, the delay. Look, the delay in time is not always about content. The reality, unfortunately, is that you are “sticking the stone.” It's your expression. Stretch the stone, the real economy, and that's where you need to give weight. I have not urged you to break the red lines mentioned earlier by the Prime Minister - which are our own red lines in December - nor the extras we would like to hear - some of which, as you said before in reply to Mr Brutsi, we are learning from the international instruments - to God! No way. We say 'do not trample the real economy'. That's the point. So what I told you was given an oral order, you should lift it immediately, today, and we will see the evolution of the matter. We also have to deal with the tax-free and tax-free matters for farmers, which I have put to you with the question, not to refer them back to the future, because this has not been said to the Greek people. The Greek people were told - and the Greek people did well and they chose it and supported it - that it would have a tax-free 12 000, which is just and must be implemented. Where and where is it under the approval of the lenders? Did a Thessaloniki Program say that? You can tell us which point and paragraph. In particular, however, my proposal for farmers is - for this year, which, for the first time, was not given the necessary information to gather the necessary items of expenditure and which, even today, I have not been able to do, although I have made an important effort, which has, however, contributed towards the end of the year, so that they can insure and therefore justify costs incurred for migrant workers in agricultural work - to allow 20% to be considered as imputable expenditure, without documentary evidence. This is the solution for this year, so that farmers do not pay 'the bride'. You want our own loopholes, you want your own loopholes? Yeah. But don't pay "the bride" or ours or yours. Indicative expenditure is therefore 20% in terms of documentary expenditure. That is my proposal, because you asked me and I respond to parliamentary scrutiny to the Member if he has any proposals. Of course, I can tell you that on the whole question you have said, there is indeed a need for information from the committee responsible because, regardless of whether it has been leaked, you cannot talk to us one day about 1.5% surpluses and learn that you are going to 3.9%. We cannot find out that you are going and putting forward proposals to catch the gruesomes in tax evasion and at the same time sign an act of legislation, according to which you are giving out to grandparents, respectively. Not all of this can be done together and we want it to work. It can't be done. You need to see it. So if you give me an answer to the two specific questions that I have raised and solved the question of VAT returns, I will be pleased. If you don't give me an answer and tell me again the general ones, I'll say that it was a good meeting today, but it won't work either for those who are concerned or for the place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I am a new Member of Parliament, it is true. I did not, however, learn more today than my colleague, who decided to teach me the right parliamentary procedure. I was glad to answer his questions, which related to two governmental legislation which his party supported! In 2011, it was a PASOK government, 2013 was a congress with PASOK. Mr Kegeroglu obviously disagrees with two of these laws, which he himself supported with his vote. I have explained to him that we are overthrowing him - and we will overthrow him, as we have said in our programme statements - and the second we will look at him in the context of our overall effort not only for farmers but for all people of the fight to get fair treatment. He then tabled a proposal, which I heard with interest. I'd like to see her in writing and I'd like to see her costly. I would like, if he wishes, even for taxfree to testify, and therefore a proposal on how it could be done. He has an opinion on the negotiation, all Greeks must have an opinion on the negotiation. Let us answer the question of whether we should accept the e-mail Hardouvelis so that the negotiation would have ended sooner, faster. More generally, I would like to say that I am very pleased with these kinds of discussions and I will be glad to see them even more in the future, since we have a real dialogue, where one is not aiming to undermine one another but to learn from one another and to enrich the quality of our dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the second with number 73/24/3-2015, a topical question for the second-round question of the Athens Parliament, Mr.Athens Lyberakis, to the Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, on the use of the European Commission's financial assistance for social cohesion. It is present, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, Mr. Theanos Fotio will answer. Mrs. Libertyraki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to ask, with regard to the Yunger package, which is Europe's big development boost plan with the 315 billion, which aims to reduce unemployment by one million four hundred thousand, if with the money that is to go to Greece - which, if I read correctly, is around 2 billion, an important part of which will be directed towards social cohesion - the creation of a new funding instrument, a new bead, could respond to what we have heard in this House and your own lips and other members of the government when discussing the issues of humanitarian crisis and other provisions. I mean. In Greece, we all know that social policy and social expenditure are rather low, their main problem is that they are not well targeted and therefore we cannot distinguish those who really have a great deal of need from the others. At that time, you said that a more permanent social security fabric, such as the minimum guaranteed income, even if it heard an idea you would consider, as it was in the SYRIZA programme by 2012, is something you cannot do now in the context of this crisis, because it would entail at least one billion expenditure, which was not included in the budget and there were no resources from which to draw. So given that we are now discussing the advent of such a large amount, I would like to know your intentions as to whether you would be interested in using part of this amount to create a more permanent mechanism. Because we all know that the great cost is to build the mechanism. Then you can make him more generous or less generous depending on the capacity of the state, but creating the knowledge infrastructure, monitoring, evaluation, etc., is the most important one. I would therefore like to know how you see the use of part of these resources for the minimum guaranteed income, as it is not now the case that there is a lack of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, Mrs. Theano Fotio, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u48	Mrs Lymperakis, thank you very much for this question today, although I think you have confused two things, the so-called Yunger 300 billion for social cohesion with the 2 billion guaranteed by the Prime Minister for the humanitarian crisis exclusively for unemployment. However, we have a great opportunity today, and I say this, because the Greek people must understand what 2 billion is. It is about new jobs, it is about the three hundred thousand posts that we promised in Thessaloniki, and it is about dealing with the humanitarian crisis, which has so far been a vague reason and which no one had evoked to the European Union before us. There was no humanitarian crisis, no people died. Let me not expand, because the Greek people know them very well and I do not need to remind him of their misery. So let's see what a minimum guaranteed income means and let's see how n. 4093, Memorandum Law, required the country in 2012 to apply the minimum guaranteed income, renamed to guaranteed social income, as if not the minimum of the minimum, since the most you can get is 400 euros in four-member families a month. But anyway, guaranteed social income has been renamed. So the previous government on 7-11-2014 - passed in 2012 - after a year of preparation, managed to make the joint ministerial decision. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u49	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u50	What did he do? That provided for three measures, Mrs. Libertyraki. One was the minimum guaranteed income. This, the minimum guaranteed income, the previous government piloted it in thirteen municipalities. I'm telling you who. Drama, Edessa, Grevenna, Ioannina, Karditsa, Lefkada, Mesolonghi, Chalkida, Kallithea, Tripoli, Samos, Syros, Malevizio - Crete I imagine. In these thirteen municipalities it was implemented. Pylon II, that is, providing mesh of services and goods, and Pylon III, who were all three together for this pilot program, reintegrating into work. What's happened to this day? On 15 November 2014, the submission of applications began and ended on 15 March 2015 in the thirteen municipalities that I mentioned. Right? Therefore, twenty-nine thousand applications have been made, twenty-seven thousand are finalized and from these applications, 13 thousand have been approved so far with the mechanism envisaged, which has been done with the CSR and with the advice of the World Labour Bank. All this package you're telling me to fix, it's been made, Mrs. Libertyraki. It's ready and tested in the pilot run. It's the three-pillar performance mechanism I told you about. So far 13 thousand applications have been approved. Average number of households - persons 1.8, 25% are family leaders, 8% are single parents. I am using more time, because once the Greek people really need to know what this pilot project is, which you tell me to implement throughout the country and on the occasion of the 2 billion that is for another job. But it's okay. Let's go down. We have so far made the following payments, Mrs Libertyraki. The previous government has given 3 million, implementing this programme and we have given 5 million, and so far we have signed 3 million, or 8 million in total. We are implementing this, that is to say, normally. Firstly, it must be assessed on the basis of the programme itself by two institutions. One is the World Bank, which will assess five municipalities. The other is the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity with the EMCDDA. As you know, the EMCDDA is an Institute, which I will tell you later what exactly it will do. The second institution will assess the eight municipalities. We have given the World Bank 2 million euros for all work: advisory provision, the history of the mechanism and evaluation. He requested an extension of three months, which we gave, because he was not ready to do the job. It's 2 million euros, Mrs. Liberaki, with the evaluation within the five of the thirteen municipalities. The criteria, for the Greek people to hear them, are as follows: first, to assess the effectiveness of the institution. They are agreed, we did not agree. Secondly, the process of implementing the institution. Thirdly, the operational capacity and preparedness of the stakeholders. Fourthly, the readiness of state information systems. Fifthly, the social and economic impacts on the population. Keep this, because I will come back for the minimum guaranteed income. Sixth, implementation of the entire programme in order to make it operational. He is finally trying to assess - says - the operational implementation of the whole programme before any extension or enlargement of the programme in order to make it operational, reliable and sustainable during national implementation. What do the services say in the question you asked? What do I get from the services, not me, not SYRIZA. Firstly, it is difficult to complete the application by the beneficiaries. Secondly, difficulties in the process of confirming the fields of the application by the social services of the municipalities that are not sufficient. They don't have any employees to do this job. Thirdly, difficulties in obtaining the supporting documents from the beneficiaries. Fourthly, difficulties in carrying out social research. Finally, Pylon II and Pylon III do not exist, do not be implemented, the services tell me. To sum up, the Ministry's services say, as far as implementation is concerned, there is vague CSR and problematic, as a result of the failure of the project management team to interpret the problematic provisions, operational capacity and preparedness of the stakeholders in great weakness, subordinated municipal services, in particular the lack of social workers, the lack of interconnection of involved services, the problematic readiness of information systems to respond to the process as described in the relevant CSR. I will return to the rest for the minimum guaranteed income and I will be very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. Mrs. Liberaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u52	I would like to make it clear from the outset that I have never had to underestimate the success of the Prime Minister who has guaranteed EUR 2 billion, which I understood from the press that it is part of the large 315 billion euro scheme, but it may not be. In any case, it's very welcome and good. The second clarification I want to make is that I am not even an agent of the designers of the previous minimum guaranteed income. It's not one thing all the minimum guaranteed. There are different variations and I do not doubt that there may have been many difficulties in designing and implementing even more. Thirdly, I would like to say that I am not serving the World Bank, so that I have to apologize for giving good advice, good evaluations or putting the right signals on the table. What I can say, however, is that on behalf of my area, which is Potami, and which we have no reason to be excellent to the previous ones, nor to be unpleasant to the current ministers, I understand that the emphasis on such financial instruments is on boosting employment. There's a lot of good reasons. That's how it's supposed to be. I wish you'd do it well. I would like to make one parentheses: it is not all employment stimulus as effective. Some, however, may tend to weaken people who work with five or repeated months, etc. We have a lot of experience in employment matters. If one wants to make good policies - and I am convinced that you want - one can learn from the negative and positive examples we have, because they are measures that we have implemented. However, on the issues of support for the people of the most vulnerable groups, namely those who cannot benefit from employment integration programmes, as much as they are of a special type, so there we have no good experience at all. 95% of the privileged benefits in Greece were given without income criteria, which means that we had no way of linking the weakness with the property with the other characteristics, etc. That is why I think it is very important that it should be planned - I deliberately said - social security. Let us not stick to the name of Mr Kegeroglou or Mr Brutsi or the name of the Italians, the French or I don't know who. I don't care about the name. I am concerned that this is an opportunity now, because I believe that there is political will, that we can fill some gaps, some long-term gaps, and the ability to pursue policy, and above all to target it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think the services were predictable to tell you that there are many difficulties, because it's something that's been made for the first time. Create it again, change it, etc. But I would like there to be in this important section of resources - which is also directed at humanitarian crisis issues and not just unemployment issues - which rationalises and creates a hierarchy of priorities for welfare, namely those of people who cannot benefit from employment integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. The Deputy Minister for Social Solidarity, Mrs. Theanos Fotio, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u54	Mrs. Libertyraki, I'm really glad you answered me the way you answered me. We have also discussed the draft legislation at the time, and now the humanitarian crisis law, which we are implementing. I have to say that what we said in the House we will do, that in April, the beneficiaries, possibly benefiting I mean, will make the applications. It is exactly what we have said, despite what we have heard, that we are mocking the Greek people and that we need six months to a year to get the KYA out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u55	We didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u56	Not you, Mrs. Liberty. You didn't say that. You said, however, - and I remember - that the issue of minimum guaranteed income is a safety net - but I do agree with that, Mrs Liberck, from what the services are saying today, but also from international experience - because we need to set the special parameters that each country has - it can also mean a trap of poverty. Here we are going to say a few things. They tell me that: "The full valuation will be made after the end of the programme and will be assessed for their potential implementation at a pan-Hellenic level". That's the one. And as I told you before, it is the National Institute of Labour and Human Resources, EIAD - for those who do not know the Arctics - who judges the eight municipalities and the five will be judged by the World Bank. However, what is of great interest is that we should first - as you said here, if I recall, when we vote on the bill - when we call a minimum guaranteed income, that is decent. In relation to how it applies to other European countries, there is a great disparity with what that means. Second. Three factors are catalytic in its implementation, so that poverty does not become a trap, that is to say, enclaves these very layers in this poverty situation. These three parameters are. Firstly, the unemployment rate. Is this our country with 27.8% Denmark? Is this our country at these rates Sweden? Is this our country, Belgium? For we are also, of course, studying the whole development of the minimum guaranteed income in Europe. Secondly, are we the country with the greatest tax evasion and tax evasion from European countries, yes or no? What does that mean for the minimum guaranteed income in cross-checking, what the municipalities say I have no staff to see? Thirdly, are we the country with the highest percentages of black labour? What does that mean? Why am I saying that there can also be a trap of poverty in the end, for example, if a person who is in this situation goes and gets an income that is so delicate, but - is something, right? - and from there on, is it a 'black' job? Which country? In the country where unemployment is the biggest problem. How are we going to hit unemployment exactly, Mrs. Liberty? Explain to me later. I was very careful in this House in all the voting for the bill and you know that you're all here. I said we'll evaluate the program. We're watching it very closely. We're not indifferent, but we'll appreciate what they tell us. That's the first. Secondly, we'll see the whole international thing. We will see what it means to 'poverty' when the IMF entered the African countries and when it imposed the same measure. We will see whether he kept the populations in this situation or did not keep them. So we have a lot of complex thoughts and I invite you all to contribute to them, because I know you have the same concepts. Just the same concepts you have. Because I have heard you, Mrs Lyberakis, repeatedly say here that no problems will be solved if there are no jobs and employment and if there is no social integration and I fully agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the fifth under No 44/16-3-2015 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance on the alleged extraordinary contribution. The timely question will be answered by Mr Varoufakis. Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, my question falls within the heading of 'creative ambiguity'. Before the month was a timely question. That's when he was filed. You said to a television station that you were considering the matter of the special levy and at another station you were rather enjoying your first word, if you wish. The question is, is that an entire world today, the small and medium-sized enterprises, are planning - if they can plan - what they will do this year with the economic situation in the country. So when they hear the Minister speak unclearly, I do not think that this expression helps, that is, the lack of ambiguity, the development of the country's economy, much more so when the government's election programme and programme statements do not provide for an extraordinary contribution. I would therefore ask you to clarify for the last time that there is no question of an exceptional contribution. Because we are in the capital of ambiguity, I will come to the VAT on the islands of the Aegean. Yesterday I had a debate with Mrs Valavani, which told me that there is no such matter anymore. At the same time, however, the Deputy Minister, Mr Mardas, said that the matter was being discussed or discussed on two Aegean islands. This story takes dramatic character because yesterday the council of the Aegean Region met at a hotel next to the Parliament and all the representatives of the region came here to protest about the Aegean Sea's VAT. So you realise that these people - after dealing in the morning by night with this issue - can plan on what will happen next month or the next month for their businesses. So one of your own, clear and final responses to these issues, would certainly be crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. The Minister for Finance, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Kremastin, thank you for two fundamental questions. It is with great pleasure to clarify these two issues, namely the exceptional levy and VAT on the islands. But you will allow me to say that I am impressed that we are having a debate in this House, because someone told you that I said something to a channel. When the House imitates television, some important values I believe are being undermined. I happen to be on the channel, and I remember very well what happened. You know what journalists are like. You know them better than I do. You're older than me. At some point, then, I was asked - do you not need me to refer to the name - the following question: 'Mr Minister, do you pledge that you will never impose an extraordinary contribution, to time indefinite?' You know that question a Minister of Finance can never answer it. You can never say 'I commit that there will never be any extraordinary contribution'. You understand that. And if you were a Minister of Finance, you could never commit yourself that there will never be an extraordinary contribution in the Greek state again. Right? It is more important to turn this answer into a heading 'the Minister of Finance announces an extraordinary contribution'. It reminds me of something that happened in Italy. It's one of life's vulnerabilities. I was asked by the Italian journalist "What are you going to do if you get kicked out of the euro?" and I replied that in such hypothetical scenarios I refuse to answer and it is something that is out of our minds. The title then was "The Greek Minister for Finance refuses to discuss his plans for leaving the euro". Among us, however, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, I would ask questions not to deal with this kind of journalistic misconduct. 'Cause it's derogations. But since you referred to the extraordinary contribution, I think that this is worthy of a serious answer. Let me remind you that the extraordinary contribution - which is currently in force - was introduced by Mr Venizelos in 2011. I would also remind you that it was referred to as a special contribution of solidarity. That is the problem we have had in the past five years. In 2010, unfortunately, a cynical transfer of losses from the passiveness of the North European banks to the low shoulders of the low Greek taxpayers - which was done with the full knowledge of those who made it that some of these losses would be transferred to the shoulders of the other European taxpayers - was called European solidarity and rescue in Greece. A year later, Mr. Venizelos introduced article 29 of the L. It is a matter of principle, and it is a matter of principle, that is to say, of principle. Somehow in the time of the Memorandum the concept of solidarity was humiliated. I am now impressed to see that you, Mr Cremastine - and I particularly appreciate you, Mr Cremastine - are well known to have made payments from the same ideological group - representing the party which introduced the extraordinary contribution, you thought that at the moment you should oppose this government, which is struggling to avoid these exceptional contributions and - as I mentioned in the previous question - to reinstate duty-free. I would also remind you that due to Mr Venizelos and the emergency contribution law, Greek citizens paid 1161 million, in 2012 1536 million, in 2013 1073 million and so on. This has also been extended this year, because of course no more permanent than the provisional. As far as our own intentions are concerned, the extraordinary contribution, which is the creation of the PASOK government and which has humiliated the concept of solidarity, ends with us. When this great, tough negotiation is over, we will proceed with a tax bill which, as you have rightly said, must be stable - the world of the market must know for many months or years before, what is awaiting them in terms of taxation - to be progressive, to be truly in solidarity with our fellow citizens, to include duty-free - I am referring to the previous question - and not to degrade the concept of solidarity. I believe that by then, during this negotiation, which has this objective in the end, we will have your support and solidarity, Mr Cremastine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u62	Mr Varoufakis, thank you for honoring me and honouring you as well, you know that. I want to assure you this. Away from me any opposition in particular at this stage that the government is facing, which is a matter of country survival. However, I cannot express my concern because, unfortunately for me, the public perception is shaped by the media. It's a reality. That's why talking in here isn't something that at least needs to disgrace you. With regard to the question of solidarity, because you also mentioned the Chief of PASOK, Mr Venizelos, I must tell you that I, as well as other colleagues, had suggested that the Ministry of Finance should not take over those days for his own political good and assign to a technocratic Minister the Ministry of Finance, as was later assigned. Mr. Venizelos, in his honor, told me and others "I know what the cost will be, but I will take care of the Ministry" and take it. This must be recorded in history because it is true that the political cost of this story has been borne by him. In fact, this adventure where the country is today is unprecedented and you know it - I am a cardiologist, you are an economist - better than I do. But I too understand that because I had to read financial books, so that I could stand up to this position and have a conversation with you. I am glad, therefore, that we have cleared this issue and I would be delighted, in order to calm the Aegean islands, to say clearly that there is no VAT issue in the Aegean islands, so that the debate can be stopped and people can deal with the problems they have to deal with, with their everyday lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Kremastein, I'll respond. The Ministry of Finance is making a great deal of effort in difficult circumstances, but I believe that this fight will succeed if there is to be no increase in VAT on the islands. I personally pledge that I will not sign an increase in VAT on the islands. The pressures, you know, are suffocating. These are ideologies, they have nothing to do with the real situation. That we have problems with VAT on the islands, we have. Let me tell you one thing which is, I think, a reason to be ashamed of all of us: last year, it has doubled, almost, tourism in Mykonos. Do you know that VAT revenues were reduced?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u65	I know it and I see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u66	What does that mean? It means we're not going well somewhere. The solution is not to increase the rate. The solution to collect what is to be collected. In the written form of your question you asked me the question "Who are the "holders?" are the ones who get rich in this brutal way and are the ones who have to pay. I think we all agree. Is it a question of how we're going to get drunk, with our damaged services, with the services that have been despised in recent years? It's always been "switching the herd," but there's been the donkey of the last five years and you know the situation now. The issue is that reforms deal with these issues and you should know - I assure you - that when we go to Brussels, in Brussels Group, we are trying to talk about these issues. On the other hand, we face this wall of ideology, which does not really want to get into the bottom of it and tells us in the outlines "Would you increase VAT on the islands?". And our answer is 'no, because that's not the point. So I think I've made it clear. I will not subscribe to any increase in VAT on the islands. I will do everything I can and my services, my assistants, the Secretary-General, so that we can finally collect what the Greek public needs to receive. Regarding, now, the more general question - because you referred to Mr Venizelos in June 2011 - I will not talk about any colleague personally and it is a personal choice not to go into any controversy and not to question the intentions of either who or whoever. My criticism - and at the time when I had nothing to do with politics, Mr Cremastine - was a criticism of politics. It was concerned that the choice of that exceptional contribution, the choice of drastic reductions in public expenditure at that time essentially infringed some of the basic macroeconomic rules. That the aim was to reduce deficits and combat the debt crisis, to accept it. But what some of us were saying was that the instrument used and imposed by the outside - it was not PASOK's choice, I know, but it was PASOK's choice to accept this enforcement - the means used, therefore, deteriorated rather than improved the problem. As you will remember, from our youth we criticised the Herbert Hoover Government in the United States of America, which in 1929 took a crisis and made it a huge disaster by applying these austerity policies in the midst of a self-sufficient recession. This was in 2011. If Mr Venizelos decides that he wants to collect the political cost, then you will tell me. I think that it is indeed a sign of bravery when one receives a political cost to do something good. It wasn't good what happened. He didn't help the country. I do not want to say that this was voluntary and I do not want to blame anyone morally. Just know that my own personal, scientific, if you will, position is that the policies that have been implemented and which now want to be reinvigorated by lenders are policies that ultimately come in conflict with even the interests of lenders. As Keynes said in 1919, after the Treaty of Versailles, it was a treaty that was disastrous not only for Germany, to which it was imposed, to the weak, but also to those who imposed it. It was a silly Treaty. That is how our memorandum is, and that is what we are trying to stop in Europe's interest, not only in Greece, and we want you with us in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the last question, let me inform you that there are some questions which, for various reasons, will not be discussed. In particular, I am referring to Tuesday with number 60-19-3-2015, a timely question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, Mr. Theocharis, the Minister of Finance, concerning delays in the process of submitting tax declarations in 2015, which will not be discussed and deleted. The fourth question under number 79/24-3-2015 is the first-round question of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health and Social Security, concerning the need for direct staffing of the pediatric clinics of Trikala and Karditsas Hospitals, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthi and deleted. The fifth question under number 82/24-3-2015, first question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Health and Social Security, concerning the medical supplies of Onaseios, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health Mr Panagiotis Kourublis and deleted. The first question under number 67/23-3-2015, the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adoni Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health and Social Security, concerning the announcements of medical treatment and hospitalization to uninsured persons, which are already applicable to the establishment of the EDY, will also not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthi and deleted. The third question with number 78/24-3-2015, the second question of the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health and Social Security, concerning the treatment of problems at the General Hospital of Lefkada and the Centre for the Health of Vasiliki, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, and deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Kavala of the New Republic, Mr Nicos Panagiotopoulos, seeks permission from 15 to 21 April to go to Taiwan for a private visit, at the invitation of the Permanent Representation of Taipei to our country. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u68	The House approved the requested permission. New Republic's MP, Konstantinos Tsiaras, seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad from 15 to 21 April in order to go to Taiwan for a private visit, following a call from the Taipei Permanent Representation to our country. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u69	The House approved the requested permission. New Democracy MP Maximos Charakopoulos is requesting permission from a short-day absence from April 15th to 21st in order to also go to Taiwan for a private visit, following a call from the Taipei Permanent Representation in our country. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u70	The House approved the requested permission. Also, New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad for personal reasons between 14 and 21 April. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u71	The House approved the requested permission. Subsequent to the fourth under number 61/19-03-2015, a topical question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the destruction of the eagle of the Municipality of Eretria from the Port Authority of Evia (OLNE). It will respond to this timely question by the Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Mr. Dritsas. Mr Mavragans has the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issue here is relatively simple. As you know, Law No 2971/2001, as today amended by Article 12(4)b, defines - and wisely the legislator has defined this - as follows - that if the sanctuary, whether artificial or natural, is protected from natural phenomena in order to prevent it from eroding, this is an adjunct permanent annex to the sanctuary, and it is never separated, it is indivisible. That is what the legislator wisely says, because if these affluences are removed then the hayote, who wants the legislature to protect itself, is also questioned in its physical substance, in its technical substance, in its limitline. What has happened to the municipality of Eretria and indeed within the urban fabric? For about 20 years now, there have been natural and artificial affluences that have been created from above on the initiative of the municipality and a pedestrian road. However, the essential issue is the broadening of these affronts, which are about six to seven meters, which have provided substantial protection, because those who have experienced the special conditions in the port of Eretria have found that the southwest winds from which the port is not shielded are entering and affecting exactly the cavalry that has been protected so far by these artificial and natural affluences. They dissolved him, and in many even with them they exceeded the pedestrian path that had been created and caused problems in this tourist area. I would like to point out in passing that the area of Eretria and Amarynthos, which is also in the same municipality now, has been considered by three legislations at the same time - ‘76, ‘77 and relatively recent in 2003 - to be an extreme tourist area. On the initiative of the ALLEC - which I cannot understand the philosophy, the reasoning, the feasibility, the legality of which is - this protection of the sanctuary has been lifted. I have indeed tried to keep in mind their provisions and their correct interpretation, to understand that these afforestations are for the protection of the cavalry. I really cannot understand what philosophy and with what purpose they have set in depth seven meters and twenty meters - and even said 'as a sample to understand what will be nice to our work' - this protection of the sanctuary. It is true, Minister, that the pedestrian road was occupied there by some shopkeepers. Local society has unanimously agreed that these should be removed and regressed into a demarcation area. That's right. However, once they have released this pedestrian path, this must remain a pedestrian path to use, just as the destination of the cavalry is, and not redeem him. I repeat: The place that was set up by law is an adjunct to the sanctuary. There is no doubt about that. It's unbelievable. So how do you take one of these initiatives? What are you taking such an initiative for? Why are you wasting money taking with an increase in even the port fees that alleviatedly did four months ago in a time of crisis? I take pictures of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u74	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. I can assure you that you, as with very serious concern, have approached the issue on which you are presenting your question today, so I and the Ministry have dealt with too much so that I can respond to my obligation to give the best possible response to parliamentary scrutiny. Nevertheless, I must tell you that our Ministry, the former Ministry of Shipping and the Aegean, now the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, does not have the decisive authority on these issues, but oversees the Port Agency and the Port Agency of Evia. However, the evidence that I can answer at the moment, and which I have gathered from all the services, says: The carrying out of the projects, which you mentioned, was originally adopted under the decision of the Port Authority of Evia, which approved the launch of local repairs and interventions. In order to take this decision, however, the Agency took into account the risks of an accident presenting this section of old and arbitrary embroidery within the terrestrial zone of Eretria Port and particularly under the road of Ancient Theatre. Both the Agency of Evia and the relevant Port Infrastructure Directorate of our Ministry's General Secretariat of Port and Port Policy have formed the conviction that the implementation of these projects is not based on n. The Commission's proposal is based on Article 100a of the EC Treaty and on Article 100a of the EC Treaty. Date of birth: 4072/2012. The aim of these projects was to restore damage and shield and protect against marine weather phenomena of the coastal front in order to make it safe to the users of the port and especially to the pedestrians. I understand from your question that you are questioning this. I'll give you the answers. You may be right, obviously. In order to carry out this restoration, the Embassy of Modern Antiquities and the Ecumenical Antiquities Agency agreed. All these decisions I've got together. If you don't have them, I'll file them in the Minutes so that the whole file is complete. The relevant authorisations shall refer to a project related to the removal of unlawful and not legal technical overlaps. In fact, according to the public property document, which I will also present in the Minutes, the Evia Port Authority has completed the process of establishing land use and conditions for building the land area of the Port of Eretria. I would like to point out to you that the autopsy carried out by the relevant department of the Ministry of Finance has been found to be permanent constructions within the terrestrial port, which have been carried out in breach of the existing legislation. After all, you have already referred to this as well. Here we also have an additional element. The case has also been taken the way of judicial investigation, i.e. an application for interim relief has been filed requesting an interim order prohibiting the continuation of work in the terrestrial port, which was rejected as an application for interim measures. We have a judicial decision concerning insurance measures. Regular courtesy is soon, on 27 May, and I think - and this is the position of the Ministry - that it is sound and sensible, but also in every respect Orthodox, to await the decision of the competent judicial body. The administration is obviously obliged to comply with it. I've got both the photos and all the data. I understand it's a dispute. I understand your point of view, but all the procedures of the services have been respected in a way that seems to be uniform and does not engender any discrimination between the proposals and the approaches made by one or other of the Greek authorities. Therefore, from the Ministry's point of view, you realise that what I can tell you is that we will obviously be following it, obviously, and we are not rejecting anything at the moment. We have this information in the post-judgment direction too, but I can assure you that we will also follow it and do what corresponds to our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", twenty-three students and students and three teachers attending the Kannochori High School of Kosanis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Mavragans has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, look, the choice of OLANE to give and focus his interest on a provision of the n. 4172 Which is not the law on the protection of the saint, I deliberately say unto you, For I have given him a written record, to observe the statutes of a sanctuary, and to come then and say that it protects the saint, it is at least hypocritical. The device is very clear. In fact, part of the accedings was artificial and they didn't have a license, a place was a natural. Paragraph 12(4)(b) in particular states that, if the works carried out or unlicensed are on leave, ‘the acronyms thus created are included in the sanctuary’. It's clear. So, whoever breaks the cavalry right now is dissatisfied and outlawed. Services ignore the law. First of all, they have no right to ignore him or to choose a law which they apply, even if the other legislation is more specific, with the principle of the protection of the saint. One of the prisoners. Secondly, the public administration, based on the principle of legality, must prejudge judicial authority and not allow itself to benefit. Because it is a question of simplicity if the document has been produced correctly. I haven't seen that. I've heard. But I have not listened to it, and I have not scientifically supervised this document. If she's written as she should, I think Greek justice will do her debt. However, the administration must, above all, reduce its harm and benefit from public services. It is inconceivable that the public services should invoke protection of the saint, which the provision itself requires of what it will do. He tells him not to do it. Minister, I have tabled two photographs in the Minutes, which show exactly how the southern winds go beyond the waves that even create these artificial affluences, and many without permission, but at this time with the law attached to the sanctuary. They show, then, how they surpass this armour! Imagine it's seven meters in! It's simple. They're practically useless on the pedestrian sidewalk. Shoppers shall be retired in a manner consistently. They've accepted that. And they must be withdrawn in order to restore legality in this regard. We are therefore reintroducing legality in this regard and selectively in breach of the provisions of the caucasus in relation to the other. Why? What's the point? You tell me. Why do we remove the accedings? What exactly are we serving? What security are we talking about when I tell you the waves are over even now? The port manager of Eretria did supervision and autopsy, and at least orally told me that it is incomprehensible what is being done. I don't know what he wrote you and I haven't seen if he's done an autopsy report. Well, he had an autopsy. It's really unthinkable. I invite you - at my own expense - to go there and see it. It is incomprehensible and goes beyond what is of logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Colleague, it seems that I have not been understood. I respect your arguments and your opinion very much. The House legislates and controls and indeed the role of the Ministries is to control the services with regard to the rules with which they operate. I have already exercised this control, and I have a single attitude towards the services. I'm watching it. You have your opinion. There's no better way to get a better deal than the court that's moved, not on your own initiative or mine. So it's the solid road, and I think it's better for us to go. There is no way the Minister can order another interpretation than the one followed by the services. It controls, monitors, recognises the possibility of judicial authority having the main role in this respect, so that we will soon see how things will develop. Therefore, you are right to ask your question. The question arises, there is a loose end, but you too have to accept that what the Ministry proposes is the most solid process, in order to really resolve the issue in a firm and proper way. I did not understand your report on municipal fees. I don't know about that. The project has been financed by the Public Investment Programme. This is not linked to municipal fees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u79	Port fees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u80	Yeah, even that's not how it's connected. It's a Public Investment Project. In any case, local communities really have a strong say and since there are decisions by local municipal authorities, we really need to look at the right steps to deal with each issue properly. I think the Ministry follows this path that I described and suggests that we all follow it, so that there can be a real answer. Otherwise, we will remain at the level of the opinion that one or the other may have. I fully respect your opinion, but the best of all is to wait for the court ruling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u81	And we thank the Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-02-S1-commons.u82	With the consent of the House at 11.11' the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, Friday, April 3rd, 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) reading petitions and (b) discussing topical questions, according to the agenda distributed.
