ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary control meeting begins. Before the agenda begins, I would like to announce to you the official results of the referendum, which took place on 5 July 2015, in the implementation of Parliament's decision to hold the first referendum since the entry into force of our Constitution. The process was completed and was successfully crowned in all respects, as the Minister of the Interior announced and the results of the referendum, to be recorded in the minutes of the meeting, was that they voted for six million and six hundred and forty thousand citizens (6.161.140), i.e. 62.5% of all registered citizens, that is to say, both expatriate and foreign residents. "Not approved/ORD" voted 61.31% and "Approved/NEP" voted 38.69%. I would ask that the result be recorded in the minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u2	In relation to this referendum, I would also like to inform you of the following: There was a very important intervention by the UN Independent Debt Expert, Mr Bohslavski, who, in his statement - which I would ask our practicers to register in the Minutes - states that there is a major issue of respect for human rights in relation to debt repayment procedures. Mr Bohslavski, in particular, states that Greece cannot withstand another austerity, because it will cause social unrest and weaken the possibility of economic growth. The Greeks, with an overwhelming majority, rejected the conditions of a rescue package by the lenders. In particular, Mr Bohslavski says that Greece's creditors in the European Union should have been more careful about what International Law dictates as far as debt is concerned. Mr Bohslavski also says: "I have the impression that the European Union had forgotten that International Law on Human Rights is playing and must play a very important role in economic policy. The international community attaches great importance to the interconnection of human rights through economic policy." The message here - says the UN Independent Expert on Debt and Human Rights - is that if the parties involved in the Greek tragedy had paid more attention to what Human Rights Law says, everything would be easier, especially for the Greek population. It also says that the Greek population's message is very clear: "No more austerity measures". It also notes that if you see the numbers, the austerity measures did not help this country recover and heal its wounds. Furthermore, in a separate statement he says he is concerned, in relation to the further risk of human rights in the country, if this insistence on policies, which may even further curtail fundamental rights. I would also like this statement to be included in the Minutes. I consider it a major statement on the part of the UN, as a major UN statement was the expert statement on the referendum. This is a statement that was made public last week, in which the UN appeared and recorded precisely its commitment to respect and democratic function and human rights. [[At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Finally, I give it to the Minutes and Mr Bohoslavsky's statement of 2 June 2015, where he points out exactly the same. [[At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] I think it was important to make these points at this meeting, because they give the tone of the responsible attitude of the international community, which assumes responsibility for a population, which has been victimized, in terms of its fundamental rights. And I think that the statements and reflections of the international and European players involved should be in this respect, because the simple and vacant message states that the International Monetary Fund, the President of the Eurogroup or the European Commission simply 'notify the outcome of the referendum', I do not think it represents the importance that should be attached to this result. In this regard I would like to say that I consider it unfortunate and inconsistent with the statements made by the President of the European Parliament, in relation to both the holding and the outcome of the referendum. As President of the House, I believe that the role of the representatives of Parliament and, in particular, of the Presidents of Parliament is to strengthen democratic procedures, preserve their authority and shield their results and not to intervene, which, on the one hand, are evading their responsibilities and, on the other, weaken the guarantee role played by the parliaments and which are required to play at this very critical time for Europe. In this sense, I would like to welcome and thank both of my colleagues, the President of the French National Assembly, Mr Claude Bartlon, and the President of the Italian National Assembly, Mr Baldrini, who, by common article published in wide-ranging newspapers and in France and Italy, point out that the path that Europe has taken in the Greek case is the wrong path. They stress the need to protect the rights of the population, respect for democracy and protection of parliamentary procedures as well. I think that such a role and an initiative for the parliaments at this critical moment, which is at stake precisely the fundamental right of the Greek people, but also the whole of the European peoples, to decent living and prosperity, is at stake and Europe's democratic identity is still at stake. I am tabling the Minutes and the article of my colleagues, whom I particularly thank and all the support they have given in this process. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same applies to the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Giannakis Homer, who, by letter dated Friday, expressed his support for the Greek people. And I think that these statements also show a commitment to European spirit and collectiveness, which are collective cohesion, solidarity and mutual solidarity, not mutual coexistence and not, of course, the punishment of peoples and societies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u4	Mr Petrakos, you have asked for the floor, although we have not been in the process, but I have seen you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Since you referred to the referendum, in which the Greek people gave a sound answer to all the blackmails and pressures, I would like to point out, Madam President, that this referendum, in which the people gave their overwhelming response to the ultimatum of lenders, was conducted in our country under conditions of unprecedented psychological war against the free will of the people. The systemic channels of interlocutory worked as a mouthpiece of lenders, trying to intimidate the Greek people. In fact, some of them also broke electoral law after Friday night. It is a duty, Madam President, to protect the Greek Republic, therefore, from these violations of the law itself, but also to try to alter the free will of citizens. Therefore, as President, the entire Bureau of Parliament, through the institutions that exist in the Greek Parliament, must take all those measures and exercise all rights so that the flagrant violations of electoral law do not go unanswered and unpunished. I feel my obligation as a Greek MEP and as a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA to stress, for my part, that together with my colleagues we should exercise - and we will exercise - all the rights that the Rules of Procedure of this House give us so that we can exercise control and ask for responsibilities for this ordinance of the psychological war and the violation of the electoral law that has taken place, I repeat, from the systemic channels of the dialogue. I think it should also be discussed in the Committee on Institutions, but we will also proceed with parliamentary scrutiny procedures. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Petrakos, thank you for the intervention. I think it is essential for the House, both in its plenary and in the committee responsible, which is the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency, to deal with this phenomenon, which, as I am aware, is already working on justice. [[Insert psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. psr. 17 and 18]] A preliminary examination has been ordered by the Prosecutor's Office of Primary Athens on how television stations have covered the referendum in the last few days, with a view to ascertaining whether and whether, in the way they raised the issue, electoral law was violated and, in particular, with a view to investigating whether offences, such as an attempt to influence voters and an attempt to frustrate an election result, have been committed by the media. Likewise, as I read, a process has been ordered before the National Broadcasting Council, which, according to the same report, has received in the last few days a rain of complaints from citizens who have complained about the attitude of television stations that have clearly taken a stand in favour of 'yes'. I see that there has also been an invitation to television and radio stations to respect the rules of journalistic ethics, recalling that it is the duty of journalists to maintain their temper and transmit the news objectively unaffected by their personal convictions. I think that particularly - given that this issue concerns, not just the freedom of press and the freedom of information and the right of the citizen to have access to unmanufactured, objective and complete information, but also the right to do so, with regard to the exercise of a major right, which is the right to vote and indeed to a referendum of this kind - the House must be activated immediately and once a timely question has been tabled, as you said, this will be determined by priority. This will be my suggestion to the Conference of Presidents and I am sure that the relevant Minister, Mr Pappas, will also be at the disposal of the House - both at the plenary level and at the level of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency - in order to have a decisive response to democracy against propaganda, misinformation and terrorisation of citizens. I think that with what you have said, you are entitled to the role of the Member and the Members who are precisely who are he, to control all powers and to make sure that the tentacles of anti-information are not invaded in the exercise of the powers. I shall submit to the Minutes and the relevant publication, to which I have referred. [[At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think that even next Friday, after a timely question has been tabled, the House could have discussed it in plenary. Now, we have a change in the composition of the Parliament, because Mr Constantine Damavonitis, MP of the Heraklion Prefecture, wrote to me on 2 July 2015, stating: 'Mr President, For two months now I have expressed to the President of the Movement Mr Panos Kammenos my disagreements on the practice followed by the government. At the height of these disagreements was the challenge of the referendum which, in my personal opinion, is euro or drachma. If the Greek people choose 'no', I think that it greatly increases the chances of Greece leaving the euro. I personally can't say that. I know that the measures which will result from a 'yes' in a new agreement are unbearable and I do not know whether the Greek society can raise them. But with 'no' we have a high-risk action, in which, if Europe does not respond in a flexible manner, the country is in a vacuum, without any alternative, without funding, without the euro and without the drachma, since the necessary preparation has not been made in the event of a change in currency. I consider the President to be an honest man and a pure patriot, but on this point we have a wide opposite view. After today's public expression of my convictions and upon request for the resignation of President Panos Kammenos, I resign in this letter. With respect to the leader's face, I am fulfilling something for which, on my own initiative, I was committed on the first day of my election, when we gave hands to fight for the good of our country. Yours sincerely, Constantine Damavonite’. This letter was numbered 2647 and arrived at the Special Secretariat on July 2, 2015. Just before, under protocol number 2646 of 2 July 2015, a letter from the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independents Mr Panos Kammenos, stating that “The MP of Heraklion Constantine from today, July 2, 2015, does not belong to the Group of Independent Greeks”. Both letters will be entered in the Minutes by Mr Kammenos - that Mr Damavon would not belong to the Group of Independent Greeks - and his second, Mr Damavonitis, who resigns from the parliamentary post. The letters referred to above are entered in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u7	This resignation, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is not withdrawn. So, at the moment, the House has two hundred ninety-nine Members. The presence of Mr.Damavitis should be replaced by the next member of Parliament's election, and in particular Mr. Gregory Macaronas, who will take over the parliamentary seat of the resigned Member as the first of the alternates of the group's combination of Independent Greeks in Heraklion. This oath will take place tomorrow at 6 p.m., before the start of legislative work. With regard to parliamentary control, due to the holding of a referendum we both had requests from the ministers and from parliamentarians not to discuss questions that were scheduled for today. Mr. Mitsotakis said a loss and asked for his question not to be discussed. The Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, has also stated a coma in relation to the questions addressed to him. The honourable Member, Mr Dannellis, has said a lot about it and has asked for questions not to be debated. Mr. Petrakos, I see you have had a planned question, which will not be discussed because of an impediment from the Minister. That makes sense, given the major event of the referendum. These questions will be forwarded, as we have done in all cases, and that is why we are getting a good degree in parliamentary scrutiny, because the questions are being discussed. We have, however, said, given that we have had annullations of questions, that we proceed with reading reports. And the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Kefaliannis, is kind enough to assist us with reading the petitions. I will ask Honourable I Vice-President of Parliament to understand the Chair for reading the petitions. Previously, Mr Vice-President, I would like to present to the Minutes and the Greek version of the preliminary report by the Committee on Truth, Public Debt, which has already begun to be distributed to Members, and for which we have decided at the Conference of Presidents that it will also be discussed in plenary on a date to be determined in consultation with the Government. So it is filed in the Minutes and the copy to post the full report in the English translation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u8	We are now in the process of reading the text, and we are in the process of being REFERENCES Please read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u9	The MPs of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Syrmalenes, Antonios Syrigos and Nikolaos Manios present as a reference to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism the letter of the Mayor of Paros, which highlights the issue of intra-cyclical communication and in particular the association of Paros and the islands of its complex with the capital of Cyclades, Syros, with a view to the start of the tourist season. The Member of the New Republic, Mr Eleftherios Augenakis, shall submit the following reports: To the Ministries of Economics and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, a report by the PALSO Foreign Language Centre Owners Association of Heraklion protests about the requirement to produce tax information only from private educational establishments, in the process of updating the authorisations of foreign language centres and calls for the establishment of a meeting of the club's administration with the Minister to review this issue. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, the Memorandum of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Informatics Teachers, on the promotion of an amendment to which that Committee calls for the removal of the exclusion of the IP19 and IP20 sectors in Article 2, paragraph F, of Law No.432715/20-5-2015: ‘Urgent measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education’, on certified training in information and communication technologies at level 1. To the Ministry of Finance, the Memorandum of the Municipality of Hersonissos presents proposals to reduce the objective values of immovable property in the administrative limits of the municipality. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the letter of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Technical Technical Sectors of Public Staff, in which the above association seeks to define a meeting with the relevant Minister in order to express by living, the need to set up institutional, sectoral, economic and technical issues relating to the whole of the technical world and not just specific categories of their industry. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, the press release of the Chamber of Commerce Hersonissos, which highlights the security problem for the area, as well as the enormous shortages in human resources that the Pension Police Department has been facing over time. To the Ministry of Finance, the letter from the federations of professional craftsmen and traders of the Prefectures of Heraklion, Lassithi, Rethymnon and Chania, in which they denounce the imminent increase in VAT. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, the letter of the Mayor of Heraklion, which sets out proposals for improvement of the n. 4178/2013, following a detailed treatment by the municipality's relevant city planning department. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, the letter of the Association of Oil and Others of Crete, indicating findings, conclusions and proposals for the proper design and implementation of effective tactics. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the letter of the Chamber of Heraklion, in which he protests about the reduction of the routes to Heraklion's ferry connection with the Cyclades and Dodecanese and calls for the return of the old route, which was also in force in the summer of 2014 via Heraklion. PASOK MEP Mr Kegeroglu submits the following reports: To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, the letter of the Supreme Confederacy of Polytects of Greece on the transfer of students from multitude families, as well as the proposed amendment to the draft law on "Regions on higher education, research and other provisions". To the Ministry of Finance concerning a newspaper post on 11-6-2015, in which the Tsikoudia Didigodias Association of the Prefecture of Heraklion refers to the risk of abolishing the exceptions to the Customs Code, to which the Kazanaridis falls. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, the letter from Heraklion Chamber, on the subject: "Revision and specialisation of the regional framework for spatial planning and sustainable development Region of Crete". To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, a letter from the Mayor of Vianno, pointing out the need for immediate action to decommission the fishing grounds of Arbes and Castri. SYRIZA MP Alexandros Micopoulos submits a report to the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, National Defence, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Economic, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, the letter of the Three Volos Parents Association "ARGO", which calls for the assimilation of the third families with the multitudes and lists individual requests from the club. The Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Constantine Barbarousis presents the following reports: To the Ministries of Economy, Shipping and Tourism and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, with which the presidents of the municipalities of the Municipalities of the Municipalities of the Municipality of Agrinio are applicants for the start of work on the construction of the Agrinio-Karpenesiou road. To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction and Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, the letter of the Vonitsa Fishery Association, which calls for immediate measures to address illegal fishing in the Gulf. To the Ministries of Inland and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Environment and Energy, with which the Citizens' Movement of Archbishops points out the need for direct financial support to the flood victims and the restoration of the region's infrastructure. Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos presents a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, the Memorandum of Mayors of the Municipalities of Patras, Agrinio, Erymanthos, Nafpaktos, Meslogo, West Achaia and Agialeia, in which he seeks to deal with the problems of fire protection and the immediate coverage of the organic voids of forest and fire services. MEP Dimitrios Kammenos presents a report to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, by which the Casine Workers' Association of Lutraki calls for immediate judicial measures to safeguard the operation of the Kazinos operated by the consortium called "TOURISM TA S.A.". - CRAMP HOTEL KAZINO LUTRAKI S.A.’ and the replacement of this Board of Directors by the appointment of a provisional board. Mr Andreas Katsaniotis presents the following reports: To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Foreign Affairs, News of the newspaper "POLOPONNISOS" on 9-6-2015, which refers to the problem of immigrants besieged the port of Patras. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, published by the newspaper "POLOPONNISOS" on 9-6-2015, which refers to a letter from the Achaea Chamber, calling for a new regulation on the loans of companies affected by the destructive fires in 2007. The Member of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides presents a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, with which a citizen in the context of intra-management mobility complains of a delay in issuing a reply from the services of the relevant bodies for his transfer from the Municipality of Thassos, in which he serves in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace. The MP of SYRIZA Mr Charula (Hara) Kafantaris reports to the Ministry of Finance the unanimous decision of the 16th meeting of the municipal council of the Municipality of Amarousi on "Request for a reduction of the zone price" in the settlement of the working houses of Amarousi. SYRIZA MP, Athanasia (Sia) Anagnostopoulou reports to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, by which the Municipal Councils of the Municipality of Kalavryton and West Achaia and the Regional Director of Primary School, Secondary Education of Western Greece, applicants for the creation of an autonomous and autonomous Public Training Institute in the city of Lower Achaia and the reopening of the DIK in the city of Calavryton in the Prefecture of Achaia. SYRIZA MEP Mr.ZANNA submits a report to the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Health, the letter of the cultural associations of the Pierre Law, which seeks the smooth running of cultural events and the negligence of their commercial activity. The MP of SYRIZA Mr Georgios Diaras presents a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, by which the Association of Friends of the Railroad "Peloponic Line Movement" calls for measures to protect the rail network, highlighting the need to save all the old rail corridors and expose the current state of the rail network as well as the advantages and benefits of a good rail network. MEP: Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, by which the National Federation for the Rights of the Autonomous Spectrum in the light of the consultation of the draft "Relief Measures for Persons with Disabilities", they set out a series of critical measures that, in their view, really improve pre-emptive legislation and restore the rights of children in the autistic spectrum. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, in which a citizen is required to find a solution in the context of the isology for the thirty pending student translations at the architectural schools. The Ministry of Finance and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, with which the Pan-Hellenic Association of the National Statistical Office of Greece calls for measures to protect ELSTAT workers for the benefit of the administration and the country. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, the letter of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Pyrometers and Firefighters of Five-Year Obligation, in which they seek to take increased protection measures in favour of the latter in the performance of their duties, as well as measures on other business issues. To the Ministries of Economics, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and State, to fight corruption, publication of the newspaper "AKROPOLI", on 14-6-2015, which denounces the grants and loans that PASOK received on a case-by-case basis when it was a government and after initiatives by the then President of PASOK. The Ministry of Justice of Transparency and Human Rights and Economics, with which the President of the Pan-Hellenic Movement Panotokion is requesting public intervention to check a complaint concerning the illegality of the last three administrations of the Lamia Cooperative Bank. To the Ministries of Internal and Administrative Reconstruction the letter of the Workers' Association of Decentralised Administration, in which the request for the creation of offices per county is made, according to the law. 4257/14 as well as the voluntary transfer of staff to the OTA Jurisdiction Services. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, by which the “Amnizia Railfan Club” is requesting the fastest possible start of the traffic of the renovated steam train of the Road Railfan - Kalavryton. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, a post on the website zougla.gr, which was posted on 18-5-2015, on the guarding of Mr. Antonis Samaras and Mr.Ioannis Stournaras of sixty-three policemen. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, the letter of the Association of Foreign Language Centres of the Achaea Prefecture requesting the withdrawal or amendment of a series of arrangements on employment issues of its members in a disputed multi-brand plan concerning their industry. To the Ministry of National Defence, the letter from the Panhellenic Federation of Military Unions requesting acceptance of their proposals on the proposed changes concerning decisions to mitigate their transfers. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, a post on the online website "Thema", posted on 30-03-2015, as well as a complaint by a citizen concerning the taking over of beaches by professionals operating umbrellas and seats at the expense of citizens. The Ministry of Finance, by which a citizen seeks to measure the tax treatment of insurance advisors respectively with the treatment of employees, under the conditions and conditions laid down by the Law. 2147/13, in order to avoid disproportionately burdening the first with superfluous tax advances. To the Ministry of Finance, the letter of the National Disabled Persons Federation, in which proposals are made for the bill of the Ministry of Finance ‘Structuring of public pensions and other provisions’. To the Ministry of National Defence, the letter of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Military Unions, in which the request for an unpaid leave, up to five years, is made to the military that accepts a position in the European Union or an international organisation in which Greece is involved. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the letter of the Citizens' Movement of Serres ANTIPA, in which the request for annulment of the decision approving the dossier concerning the "Common Participation Plan" for the project "International Association, Trans Adriatic Pipeline, TAP" and proposed alternatives. The Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, by which a citizen is requested to be informed, shall specify the reasons for preventing the appointment of the Secretary-General for Decentralised Administration. To the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, by which the SELMAN Workers' Association is requesting an insolvency allowance for SELMAN employees and sets out the relevant legislative framework governing the grant of the allowance. The Ministry of Finance, by which the Association of Greek Geologists expresses its opposition to the draft law on ‘Travel of displaced persons within and outside the territory’ and requests that it be withdrawn. To the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, the publication of Patras's “MONOMY” newspaper on 10-6-2015, in which they list their positions on changes in the Code of Civil Procedure and highlight a number of issues that concern their industry. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, the publication of the newspaper "KOSMOS" of Patras, on serious traffic caused in the district of Makrigianni on the road connecting Patras to Demenika and Ovras, due to the non-functional for months, of the traffic lights placed at this point. To the Ministry of Health, a publication by the newspaper DIMMOCRATIA on 9-6-2015 indicating the need to use nurses with increased qualifications to cover the organic positions of nurses in hospitals. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Stavros Tassos, George Lambroulis, Diamonds Manolakou and Emmanouil Syndraki present a report to the Ministry of Health, with which residents of Patmos and Leipsion - Agathonisios seek measures to resolve the serious problems encountered by the deterioration of the Centre for Health and the Regional Physicians of Leipzig and Agathonisios. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Dimas presents a reference to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion, the letter of the Director of the Kallian High School, requesting the reopening of the three lyric classes according to the needs of the region, as well as the launching of transport and the return of students. Parliamentary of Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis submits a reference to the Ministry of Finance, the letter of the Building Cooperative in Energy Officers of Magnesia, requesting the correction of the 2014 clearance and the upcoming ENVY 2015. Athanasios Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs by which the First ELME Thessaloniki seeks to conclude labour contracts for workers in OAED's public works programmes and for workers in the Centres for Lifelong Learning (CICs) of all the municipalities of the region, as well as the payment of the fees owed to all adult trainers and other workers in the Centres for Lifelong Learning. New Democracy MP Athanasios Davakis submits a report to the Ministry of Health, in which the Commander of the Sparta Hospital calls for the management of the Pathological Clinics of the General Hospital of Laconia. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Stergios Giannakis presents a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, in which the Municipality of Ziros of Prevezis highlights the economic problems it faces as a municipality, as well as the symptoms of bureaucratic dysfunction and administrative overloading. The MP of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos presents a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, with which the Mayor of Argos - Mycena calls for the continuation of the annex to the School of Education and Technology (SPATE) in Argolida. The SYRIZA MPs, Mr Elisabeth (Bette) Skourfas, Mr. Zesis Zannas, Mr. Charilaos Tsakalis and Mr. Hero Diotis report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy the protest of the sports clubs "The Association of Friends of Underwater Hunters of Thessaloniki" and "Thirds", in which applicants for the lifting of the universal prohibition of underwater fishing without underwater breathing devices in the Thermaikos Gulf. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Stagiras reports to the Ministry of Health that the General Hospital of Lamia highlights the urgent need to address a number of problems to ensure the proper functioning of the Medical Sections of the General Hospital of Lamia. Mr Spyridon Danellis presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, with which Mayor Vianno points out the need to finance it for restoring the operation of the fishing shelters of Arbes and Castri. To the Ministries of Economic, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economics, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the letter of the Mayor of Hersonissos, Heraklion, highlights the need for additional legislation to resolve issues created by the application of the law. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. To the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Economic, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Health, the letter of the Federations of Professionals, Craftworkers and Traders of the Prefectures of Heraklion, Chania, Rethymnon and Lassithi, in which they seek to address the problems that the current economic situation has created in the small and medium-sized enterprises of the Region of Crete. SYRIZA MP Alexandros Meikopoulou reports to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction the letter of Mayor Almyros, in which he requests the assistance by staff of the Children's Stations of the Municipality of Almyros. The Member of the New Republic, George Vlachos, shall submit the following reports: To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the letter of the Mayor of Megarons calling for the continued financing of the project "Replacement of water pipelines for the Megaron". To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, the resolution of the Municipality of Rafina - Pikermio against the houses and buildings of the settlement "Airportia" of the Municipality of Rafina - Pikermio. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Nikolaos Moraitis and Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, with which the Parliamentary of Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis submits a reference to the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity, the letter of the Association of Laika, Investments, Footwear and Home Use of Regional Unit "Gordi Tyre", in which he requests the renewal of their professional licenses. SYRIZA MP Elisabeth (Bluetie) Skoufa reports to the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Education and Religious Affairs with which the Municipality of Punta - Colinddrou calls for the construction of three school halls of slightly solved prefabricated construction to cover the extraordinary housing needs of the Professional School (EPA.L.) Aeginio and the Citrus Primary School. The Member of the New Democracy, Christos Bukoros, shall submit the following reports: To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, by which the Vice-President of the Regional Unit of Magnesia and Sporades describes the incomplete staffing of the regional and remote police stations of Magnesia, highlighting the seriousness of the issue. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, in which the Association of Polytectures of Magnesia Law highlights the need for a review of the translations of student-members of the Higher Education of Multitude families. The Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, through which the Agricultural Cooperative of Pelion and Northern Sporades seeks the integration of its permanent staff, regardless of age, into a programme of Employers' Contributions. To the Ministry of Finance, by which the ‘Building Partnership in active employment of civil servants of the Magnesia Prefecture’, based in the area of Agios Stefanos Soros Magnesia, requires the correction of their clearance for the ENVY The Members of SYRIZA Mr.Evros Evros (Froso) Karasarlidou, Mr. George Ursouzidis, Mr.Ioannis Michelogannakis, Mr. Socrates Famelos, Mr. Geremis Balaouras, Mr. Ioannis Stastassou and Mr. Christos Smias refer to the Ministry of Finance the extrajudicial request - a statement by the Local Organisation for Improvements (TOEV) of the Naousssis and Arafatsis Farm, on the subject of the "Restoration of Taxation of Persons of Private Law with the Names of the Local Organisation for the Improvements (TOV) of the Naousssis Farm and the Local Organisation for Improvements (TEV) of the Law of the Sea". Mr Emmanouil Syntrakis, Mr Diamanto Manolakos and Mr Stavros Tassos report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism the letter of the Municipality of Viannos, in which the need to take immediate action to deport the fishing shelters of Arvis and Castri is noted. Mr Kyriakos Harakides, Member of the European Parliament, presents a petition to the Ministry of Finance, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, which requires a citizen to ensure that he is retired by using the fictitious years of insurance or even the use of his working time from abroad. SYRIZA MP Konstantinos Lapavitsas submits a petition to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, in which the City Council of Alexandria protests against the decision of Greek Agricultural Insurance, (ELGA) not to include the statements of damage to water and waterfall due to weather conditions. SYRIZA MEP Mr Fotini Vakis presents a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction of the letter of the Association of Police Officers of Corfu, which sets out its proposals for the restructuring of the services of the Department of Police of Corfu. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Dimas reports to the Ministry of Finance the letter from the Institute of Consumers of Corinthia, which concerns complaints by consumers about the inability of the system to clear their tax statements. SYRIZA MP Dimitrios Rizzos presents a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion, in which the Presidents of the Evros Chamber, Xanthi Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Rodopi Chamber of Commerce and the professional and crafts Chamber of Commerce, Rodopi, applicants for the investigation of complaints that saw the light of publicity regarding the issue of the feeding contests at the University of Thrace. The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, shall submit the following reports: To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction the Memorandum of the Panhellenic Federation of Contracting Firefighters and Firefighters Five-year Obligation, in which they claim their working and insurance rights by describing the difficulties they face through the setting of fire suppression in the pre-Athos region of Halkidiki, among the areas of Nea Roda-Uranoupolis. To the Ministries of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, the Memorandum of the Initiative of Residents of the Panton - Agia Sunday Thessaloniki, which highlights the need to address the pedestrian prostitution phenomenon in their area. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion the Memorandum of the Hellenic Supreme Confederacy, which proposed an amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Agreements on higher education, research and other provisions in order to resolve issues relating to multiple families".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, for reading the petitions. Reports completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-06-S1-commons.u11	With the consent of the House at 19.39' the meeting for tomorrow, Tuesday 7 July 2015 at 18.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the articles and on the whole draft law: "Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Nationality - Amendment of the Act. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on a single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
