ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to announce to the House the issue of Monday 30 March 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 52-17-2015 by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Vassiliki Katrivanou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about ensuring publicity and protection of witnesses in the forthcoming trial of the Golden Dawn. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 45-16-3-2015 topical question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on technical integration and the final tradition of the project of Corinth - Kalamata - Sparta. 3. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia, to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the government's planning to address the threat of jihadists. 4. The question asked by MP Larissa of the River Mr Konstantinos Barriota to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the problems in the railway transport of the Volos-Larisa line. 5. The current question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Social Solidarity on the continuation of the work on Metro of Thessaloniki. 6. The question asked by MEP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the cut-off of the provincial district network Hania Aylonari - Platana - Kymi Beach. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Dodecanese of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the failure to comply with the protocol of official guests during the recent public events in Rhodes on the national anniversary of the Dodecanese in Greece. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 76/24-3-2015 of the MP State of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Agalias Kyritsis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the malfunctioning of the payment of obligations in the past years of the Municipality of Kalymnos and many other municipalities in the country. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 46/16-3-2015 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Karamanlis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the flood protection of the Serres Prefecture. 3. The question under number 50/16-3-2015 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarou, to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the oligopoly of the authorities responsible for dealing with paedophilia. 4. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning direct and effective assistance to the flood victims in the region of Epirus and Itolokarnania. 5. The Question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the tendering of the section Patras - Tower of Olympia Odos. 6. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the financing of the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u3	You're welcome, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u4	Because it often happens to us, as to me today, to forget our card and they have informed me that there is no second one, I would like to ask, Madam President, if you can tell the services to take care of the issue and have a backup card, as it has been for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u5	All right, Mr. Nicholas. We'll talk about it and we'll solve it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-two students and students and five teachers - attending them from the 13th Kozani Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the reading of REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Xanna, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u7	Members of the Messinian Parliament, and so on. Athanasios Petrakos, Panagiota Kozobol - Amanatidis, Petros Konstantines and Eleni Psarrea submitted to the Minister for Foreign Affairs a report on the claim of German allowances and the loan to Greece. The resolution of the Municipality of Kalamata is attached. Mr. Nikolaopoulos also endorses it. Congressman Kozanis, Rachel Makri, submitted to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction a report on the memorandum from the officials of the Anonymous Company of the Greek Electricity Distribution Network "DEDEE S.A.", which is still being moved to the Lignite Centre of Western Macedonia. The relevant memorandum is attached. Mr Michael Kritsotakis submitted to the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity a report to the Press Release - Complainting of the Federation of Food Workers and Workers of Tourist Professions of Greece (WEU - YEOE), which denounces the Hotel OUT OF THE BLUE, CAPSIS Elite Resort in Agia Pelagia for illegal abuses and expulsions, during the Christmas season, redundancies of nine seasonal workers, without a great reason and without elementary consultation of the employees' representatives, while their employment has already been solved by the end of the season, thus destroying the right to re-introduction of the dismissals for repressive reasons, due to the conflictual relationship with the operational association that receives members and also of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The relevant press release - complaint is attached. Parliamentarians of Cyclades Mr Nikolaos Symλeneos, Antonios Syrigos, Nikolaos Manios and Dodecanese Mr Dimitrios Gakis, Nektarios Santorinios, Ilias Kamateros submitted to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism a reference from the document of the Southern Aegean Region of 10-02-2015 with protocol number 1332/133 on the modification - increase of a specific limit of credits - payments, projects - study of SAP/SMP National Skates of the PES year 2015 in the South Aegean Region. The relevant document is attached. The MPs of the Cyclades Mr Nikolaos Symλeneos, Antonios Syrigos, Nikolaos Manios submitted to the Minister of Health and Social Security a reference to the document of the Municipality of Paros of 13-02-2015 under protocol number 1582 on the Health Centre of Paros. The document states: "We would like to inform you of the problems faced by the Centre for the Health of Paros, which in recent years has been subordinated and the situation has constantly deteriorated. The local community has acted as a whole for protests about the continued deterioration of the health services provided. Already the situation has become hopeless. The tragicity of the situation arises from the fact that, from the end of March, only four doctors will be left in the health center, a general doctor, a radiographician, a biopathologist - microbiologist and a surgeon. It should be noted that there is an on-call without a general doctor, a pathologist or a pediatrician, in accordance with current legislation. Pathologist no longer has been a pediatrician for years, because despite repeated notices there has been no interest in anyone.” The relevant document is attached. Report by MP Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister of Finance on: Late debts to the municipalities: ‘Ministers, I enclose you with Protocol No 402/19-02-2015 of the Central Association of Municipalities referred to in its proposal for the application of the planned law on the settlement of government debts and late payments to the municipalities until 31 December 2014.’. Report by Mr Leuteris Augenakis to the Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: Restaurant - PLO coffee. "We have recently been informed that a decision was taken by the Board of Directors of the Port Authority of Heraklion, which consents to the movement of the restaurant - PLOTO coffee within the Venetian port of Heraklion. Being sensitive to the issues of culture, the environment, health and safety, as well as to any action taken in our Venetian port, we ask: 1) Notify us the minutes of the Board's decision, so that we can be informed of the rationale behind this decision. 2) Tell us about the environmental, traffic and spatial study on the potential burden on the already deserved marine and land environment of the small Venetian port of Heraklion 3) Notify us the study done by your service for the new anchorage where they will safely tie up over fifty Member vessels that will have to be moved, to place the PLOTO. Report by MP Carditsas Mr. Tsiara Konstantinos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: Granting of appropriations for the restoration of damage to the Municipality of Mousakio. "We notify you of a letter from Mayor Karditsa dated 03-02-2015 requesting the allocation of EUR 100,000 credit to restore the damage caused to the wider region of Mousakio from the recent bad weather. The area to which the municipality extends comprises both mountain and plain areas in which extensive disasters were caused. In the mountain communities in particular we have road damage from landslides and landslides, while in the plain problems they were caused by flooding phenomena from flooding rivers and streams. To deal with all these issues and to repair damages the competent services of the Municipality of Mousakio exaggerate themselves, as they rush to catch up with any new deterioration in the weather, which might be a burden even more on the shaped situation. Since the immediate restoration of disasters is a matter, mainly and above all, related to the security of the inhabitants of the local communities affected, please as you very quickly consider this request and to exhaust all possibilities for the immediate financial support of the Municipality of Mousakio to the amount of EUR 100,000.’ Attachment by protocol number 1405/3-2-2015 to Mayor Mozambique's letter. Report by MP Ilia Panagiotaros to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: Prolongation of lottery certification and inability to trace lottery. ‘Please place on the issue raised in the letter of the Panhellenic Association of National lottery Agents concerning the extension of lottery certification and the inability to trace lotteries’. Parliamentary Isona Fotilla's report to the Minister of Education, Culture, Religious Affairs and Sport on the subject: Credit for englishing an English language in the Municipality of Erymanthos Achaias. "I submit to you a letter from the Mayor of Erymanthos Achaias requesting credit for teaching instruction in order to teach English at the municipal school of the municipality's headquarters in Halanderica. The vacancy arose due to a pregnancy leave received by the only teacher from 15-2-2015, thus depriving students of the English language teaching. The need for replacement is urgent as students in the region, due to the economic crisis and the distant distances, are unable to attend foreign courses outside school hours at a private school based at the city’s headquarters.’ Report by the MPs of the Communist Party of Greece Nikolaos Moraitis and Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the main ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Health. They submitted a reference to the letter of the Municipality of Nikolaos Skoufas of Arta Prefecture calling for relief measures for the flood victims in the region, as well as for immediate financial assistance to be provided to restore and repair the damage caused. Report by MP Evia Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: Disclosure of labour issues in OLAB SA. "I send you the letter of the Association of Workers of Port Volos, which was notified to the Representative of the Independent Greeks, Marina Chrysovelonis, on the non-payment of an unhealthy labour allowance for the first half of 2014 to these workers. I would ask you, in substance, to consider this reference in order to directly satisfy this legal request and to inform me accordingly.’ Reference to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr.Nikos Voutsi and the Deputy Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr. Panagiotis Lafazanis from Vassilis Kegeroglou on the subject: Extraordinary financing of the Municipality of Viannos for the restoration of infrastructure due to disasters from 6-1-2015 to 14-1-2015 and from 10-2-2015 to 12-2-2015, snowfall, intense rainfall and greasy winds. "Viannos Municipality for the second time in 2015 was affected by severe weather phenomena that prevailed in our region initially from 6-1-2015 to 14-1-2015 and from 10-2-2015 to 12-2-2015, thus multiplying the problems and damage to the existing infrastructures. According to the data so far, the following municipal infrastructures have suffered: 1) River Bridge Anapodari. The bridge has become extremely dangerous for the traffic of vehicles and citizens, while it is unable, due to the construction, to absorb the current water volume of the river, and thus flooding by cutting off the Tsoutsoura-Mirtos coastal road. The coastal road may be classified as municipal.’ The reference to this point shall be interrupted. Parliamentary Dramas Christos Karagianidis submitted to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy a report dated 13-2-2015 of the Association of Officials of the Improving Bodies of Eastern Macedonia, which suggests that the association is protesting about the implementation of KYA 146896/2014 (PKE 28787/B/27-10-2015) on the granting of authorisations for existing rights of use of water, namely for the huge financial costs it generates at the Improvement Agency, proposing the authorisation procedure for the districts' water economy or municipalities that are supervised by the agencies, while protesting on the continuation of the agricultural invoicing of the supply of water and pumping facilities of the OEBs. The relevant document is attached. Congressman Heraklion Micheloganakis submitted to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction a report under protocol number 1187/16-2-2015, a letter by Mayor Viannos on the reporting of problems from the naturalities in the Municipality of Viannos. The letter attached thereto is attached. MEP Larisi Iro Piotis submitted to the Minister of Health and Social Security a report to the resolution of the Farsalon Municipal Council, which is an integral part of the Municipal Council decision No 302/2014 on the time-consuming problems and shortcomings encountered by the operation of the Farsalon Health Center, as well as its 24-hour coverage with ambulances and ambulance crew specialists. In the resolution annexed, the Farshall Municipal Council claims: 1) Direct staff coverage for the 24-hour operation of the ambulance at the Farsalon Health Center. 2) Creation of an EAW sector in Farsala. 3) Direct intake of a pediatrician. 4) Direct operation of the X-ray laboratory. 5) Midwives recruitment. The relevant resolution of the Farsalon Municipal Council is attached. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Athanasios Petrakos, Panagiota Kozobol - Amanatidis, Petros Konstantines and Eleni Psarrea submitted to the Minister of National Defence a report to the resolution of the Municipality of Kalamata on the possible abolition of the 9th Infantry Constitution "Yannitsa", based in Camp Papaflessa in Kalamata. SYRIZA Members consider that the Yannitsa camp has the latest facilities necessary for historical and social reasons. The relevant resolution is attached. MEP Artas Mr. George Stylos submitted a report to the Ministries of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism: "I attach to you the recent document of the Brotherhood of Pigier Artas on their right to rebuild bridges and to maintain the historical monuments of the wider region. As stated in the text, "it is our responsibility to protect historical monuments from natural disasters, or unreasonable human feasibility or indifference." Parliamentarian Heraklion Mr Leuteris Augerakis submitted a report to the Minister of Finance Mr. Yani Varoufakis, to the Minister of Labour, Panos Skourletis, and to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Mr.Giorgos Stathakis: "The letter of the Federation of Professionals, Crafters and Traders of the Prefecture of Heraklion, which I applaud, refers to the request for facilities to residents and professionals in Heraklion affected by the severe flooding phenomena. As stated: "The bad weather that hit Heraklion Prefecture between 12 and 14 January caused severe flooding phenomena, particularly in the Maladon region - Phoenix - Three Bagias, due to the overflow of the Drakouliaris River, resulting in some fifty craft-industrial companies and shops suffering enormous damage to goods, machinery, tools and infrastructure respectively, the ten of them have suffered total destruction".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-two students and students and three school attendants from the 59th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Secretary, you have the floor to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u9	MP Dramas Dimitris Kyriazidis filed a petition to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy: "As the potato growers of the Lefkanite of Lower Neuroscope of Drama Prefecture have been irreversibly affected by the harmful Synchytrium endobioticum. Following repeated and persistent efforts made within and outside Parliament, the problem was officially recognised by the political leadership of the former Ministry of Rural Development, which has made a great effort to find compensation for those farmers whose land has been quarantine.’ Congressman Ilias Panagiotaros filed a petition to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: Request for state lottery debts. Parliamentarians Georgios Lambroulis and Christos Katsotis submitted to the Minister of Labour a report on the resolution of the concentration of the residents of the dwellings of Giannoulis "Melina Merkouri" on the issue of the delivery of the concessions and the costing of the apartments of the former OPEC. Parliamentary Evia Mr Nikolaos Mavragani's report to the Minister for Finance on 'Enlargement of the Land Office for Magnesia'. Report by MP Heraklion Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis on the subject: "The Skourias are ours and we will do everything we can to protect them. All the workers at the Kassandra mines and the Halkidiki residents are concentrating on Skouria." The worker's communication is attached. Reference to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Eleftherios Aygenakis. "The letter of the graduates of the public IEK Crete, specialty "Speaking of Museums and Archaeological Areas", which I attach thereto, refers to the problems created by the end of summer contracts in the museums and archaeological sites of Greece. As stated in the letter: "In the Archaeological Museum of Heraklion, parts have been closed with the departure of contractors, whereas this year especially, throughout the winter, there are cruises, so that visitors cannot see the whole museum. We know that similar problems have to face many museums and archaeological sites. We call on you to take immediate action to strengthen with trained staff of archaeological sites and museums by issuing - a proclamation of permanent posts through ASP immediately. There was a contract with four hundred and twenty-five seats - of which a hundred twenty watchmen's seats - which was ready to be issued, but has been frozen since 2011 because of the political situation. We ask that these positions of the guards be covered by graduates of our specialty and not by any other group of workers, for example, school guards and without our school or foreign language degree. Reference to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Eleftherios Aygenakis, Member of the European Parliament, and to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs. "The letter of the Association of Foreign Language Centers PALSO, which I attach thereto, refers to the most flaming of those in the industry. As stated in the letter, the immediate abolition of the vs. 4093/2012 and the reintroduction of the two-year renewal leave of foreign language centres in exactly the same way as it was in 2012 through EEAP, as well as the removal of the requirement to provide information on the renewal of the authorisation of existing foreign language centres, because under the current economic circumstances few small and medium-sized enterprises, as is commonly known, have information. Report by Mr Christos Stakouras to the Ministry of Education, Culture and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Transfer of the Special Vocational Education and Training Laboratory (EEAE) of the Law of Fthiotis". Report by Mr Constantine Barbarousi to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion and to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "Declaration of a protest against the planned merger of the 22nd Ego of Byzantine Antiquities with the 26th Ego of prehistoric and classical antiquities". The Members of Parliament, and so on. Emmanouil Syndrakis, Christos Katsotis and Diamantos Manolakou have submitted to the Minister of Labour a reference to the letter from the Association of Administrative and Technical Personnel IKA - ETAM of Eastern Crete, requesting that the decision of the Board should not be implemented. the administration of the IKA for the suspension of the operation of the private branch IKA Aghios. Months. Report by MP Achaias Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: "Please for your placement on a letter from the Democratic Cultural Association of Kurdistan promoted by the Special Secretariat of the Parliament on requests from the Kurdish community in Greece". Report by MP Ilias Koutsoukos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, and to the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction and Energy on the subject: "Direct integration of the Municipality of Andritsina Crestonas into a programme of PSEA". Report by MEP George Vlachos to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy. "The City Council of Rafina - Pikermiou particularly watches threatened demolitions of buildings built in areas of our municipality, the first of which was scheduled for Wednesday 18 February 2015 in the Perivokia settlement." Report by Georgios Vlachos to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism: “Our association submitted a request to the municipality on 17-10-2014 requesting the improvement of the transport infrastructure of the Kitsios region through the OECD, as it is an area of three thousand inhabitants completely disorganised, without any infrastructure or even TAX”. Report by Mr Panagiotis Mitsarakis to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on "Questions of School Buildings in Chios". Parliamentary Second Athens Mr.Ilia Panayotarou's report to the Ministry of Health and Social Security on the subject: "The economic deadlock of the Lyrakos Psychiatric Clinic S.A. by the refusal of the EEAY to comply with judicial decisions". The Members of Parliament, and so on. Diamonds Manolakos, Christos Katsotis, Emmanouil Syndrakis and Stavros Tassos reported to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism the letter of the Samos Labour Centre calling for the immediate payment of all the seamen of the ship "MYTILINE" and for another ship to be launched for the islands so that there is daily connection with the port of Piraeus. Parliament's report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "About e-mail I received from Mr. Nicos Papadopoulos, who sent us a letter from the Cultural Association of Lower Alissos, where, after referring to the extreme weather conditions of the last few days and the related volatiles of the coast, there is an appeal for such initiatives from the local government in the form of emergency". Heracleon Vassiliou Kegeroglou's report to the Ministers for Labour and Social Solidarity, Education and Religious Affairs: "Sufficient years now, the request of the three-teen families for their simulation with the polytexts has been supported by all political parties, but this support has not yet evolved into the law of the state." Report by Congressman Korinthias Christos Dimas to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: "Proposals from the Cooperative Stafia Organisations of the Peloponnese and Ionian Islands". Parliament's report to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy: "In the letter of Mayor Viannos, which I applaud, the request for exceptional funding from the Municipality of Vianno for the restoration of infrastructure is mentioned because of the disasters suffered by the extreme weather phenomena of the last period". Reference to the Minister for Health and Social Security Mr Panagiotis Kouruplis, on the subject: 'Removing the medical needs of workers - Minimum wages'. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Stavros Tassos, Diamanto Manolakos and Emmanouil Synthraki submitted to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy a reference to the resolution of the Association for Agricultural Cooperatives in Lesvos, calling for a definitive and sustainable economic solution to be found on the waste water issue in the olive mills. Report by Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, the Minister for Economy, Infrastructure and Tourism and the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Please (a) for your placement on a letter which has been forwarded to us by e-mail from the former mayor D.Dymis Dionysios Kotsikaulas, on the change of designation of the Patras - Tower - Tsakona motorway, from the end of the bypass Patras to K. Achaias and (b) by stopping the government intervention of the companies active in the area of the quarries of Araxos". Report by Congressman Heraklion Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, on the subject: "Feet of a cash contribution. The document No 63/29-9-2014 is attached.’ Report by Congressman Korinthias Christou Dimas to the Minister of Health and Social Security, on the subject: "Application of the Municipality of Xylokastro - Eurostine to strengthen the human potential of the Centre for Health of Xylokastros". Report by Mr Christos Stakouras, Member of the European Parliament, to the Ministry of Health, on the subject of "Preconditions for exercising a profession of therapists". Report by Dramas Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of State Mr Nikolaos Papapas: "I have occasionally received complaints from regional and local media about how the advertising expenditure of the Greek State and the wider public sector is distributed." The Members of Parliament, and so on. Stavros Tassos and Eleni Gerasimidou submitted as a reference to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion the letter of the Parents and Gardens Associations of the Municipal Schools of Kaspaka and Thanos, expressing the strong protest at the decision of the majority of the PYSPE of Lesvos to operate the schools in the area with two teachers, as opposed to three teachers with whom they operated last year, and ask the Ministry of Education, the Regional Education Department of the North Aegean and the PYSPE Lesvos to approve the operation of the schools with three teachers. Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Please beg for your placement on the letter that it forwarded to us by e-mail of the Association of Middle Education Officers of ELME Achaia, on its request for the immediate suspension of the penalty for compulsory holidays to a number of their colleagues, but also for the suspension of the consequences of this penalty on their retirement time and remuneration". Report by Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Ministers for Health and Social Security, Economic, Labour and Social Solidarity: "With the reference number W3A/F15/GDP8843/27-6-2008 a joint decision of the Ministers for Economic and Financial Affairs, Health and Social Solidarity provided for the granting of a movement allowance to persons with mutilation of both legs and persons with a disability rate of 80% or more, irrespective of whether they are owners, legal holders or users of a private passenger vehicle. It was predicted that the working allowance in question was granted exclusively to cover the increased travel costs of its beneficiaries as defined in that Staff Regulations. Report by MP Dodecanese Mr Emmanuel Konsolas to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Tourism and Maritime Affairs: “The document of the Southern Aegean Region relating to the request for an increase in the allocation of resources of the 2015 Public Investment Programme to the South Aegean Region shall be forwarded.” The Members of Parliament, and so on. Stavros Tassos and Eleni Gerasimidou submitted as a reference to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs the letter of the Association of Educational Primary Education of Limnos "Aryan Moschidis", on the lack of teachers in schools in the primary school of Limnos, calling for the immediate appointment of teachers, nurses and teachers of the necessary skills to fill gaps in schools. Report by Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion, on a letter from the Association of Greek Archaeologists on the memorandum on the positions and requests of the club for a review of the following problems of the industry: First, the deportation and degradation of the role of the Ministry of Culture and the Archaeological Service and secondly, the lifting of the injustices suffered by the workers of the Ministry of Culture in previous years. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Stavros Tassos and Eleni Gerasimidou submitted as a reference to the Minister of Labour the letter of the Chios Workers' Centre and the Builders' Associations, Servitors, Workers in Hotels and Food Shops, and of the Chios Guides Professionals, in which they request, due to the serious problems of survival faced by the workers on the island, that the law on minimum wages be suspended for this year, which is required to cover their medical needs. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on a letter from the Panhellenic Association of Officials of the National Statistical Office of Greece on the press release on the challenges of Mr Georgios, President of ELSTAT and the need to redefine the principles of operation of the Authority on the basis of its founding law. Report by Mr Ephremidis, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission of the European Communities to the Council (COM(86) 436 final — Doc. Christos Katsotis, Ioannis Gioka and Liana Kanellis to the Minister of Labour: It is presented as a reference to the resolution of the Union of Retired IKA of Saints Anargiri, Ilios and Petroupoli calling for the restoration of all the cuts and losses imposed on it in recent years and the abolition of all legal and reinsurance frameworks, memoranda, credit agreements, implementing laws. Report by Mr Larissa Vassilis Kokkalis to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: 'Renewing professional permits'. Report by Mr Larissa Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: 'Growth management'. Report by Mr. Nektaria Santorini, Mr. Dimitrios Gakis and Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: "Serious problems in the islands of Leros and Leipzig since the constant power cuts". Report by MP Arta Mr Olga Gerovas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Member of the SYRIZA Prefecture of Arta Mr.Olga Gerovasilis has submitted a report with an attached letter from the Union of Military Region of Epirus: "According to the letter from the Union of Military Regions of Epirus, the Union with a document has requested the availability of LAP Ioannina to carry out a cut-off of new year's pie. The answer of 8th BPX became oral and was negative, without explaining the reasons for the non-disclosure of the Ioannina Guard Club." Report by Mr Aphroditis Stavoulis, Member of Parliament, on the subject: 'Installation of a bridge at the Promachoon Serres'. It is addressed to the Ministries of Finance, Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. Report by Mr Irotis Larissa, Member of Parliament, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the subject of "Integration of wine-making cooperatives in PPC's agricultural invoice". Report by the MPs Mr Nikolaos Syrmalenios, Antonis Syrigou, Nikos Maniou, Dimitris Gaki, Nektarios Santorini and Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the subject: "Modification - increase of approved appropriations in the South Aegean Region". Report by Dimitrios Kyriazidis, Member of the Dramas Law, to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: "From the company called "Civil Drama S.A." I received the letter - attached to this letter - from 20-02-2015, which raises serious complaints from the administration of the legal person of the CBS concerning the non-payment of part of the contractual part of the signed and performed transport contract concluded with the Municipality of Drama". Report by Mr Mario Salma, Member of Parliament, to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the subject of 'Destruction of Anti-military Works in Strannamia'. Report by Mr Athanasios Boura, Member of the Region of Attica, to the Deputy Minister of Public Order Mr. Panousi Ioannis: "I am writing a letter from the Mayor of Rafina - Pikermi on the removal of the group of DIAs from Rafina and Pichermi". Report by Antony Gregos, Member of the Greek Parliament, to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The cessation of logging in Lakko Karajas in Skouries". Report by MP Larissa Mr Konstantinos Bargiota, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy. "I present a letter from the Mayor of Tempus Mr. Konstantinos Kollatos calling for the immediate mobilisation of the ELGA mechanisms, in order to have a first assessment of the situation, since on 21-03-2015 there was a frost in most areas of the municipality, as well as a direct assessment of the damage." Report by Mr Ephremidis, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission of the European Communities to the Council (COM(86) 436 final — Doc. Georgios Lambroulis, Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy. "The resolution of the concentration of apple growers in Agia Larissa, calling on the Government to take steps to immediately make up for lost income due to the embargo on the European Union in Russia, as was the case with peaches. To implement the election commitment to separate the position of the Greek Government in the European Union for the embargo in Russia. To lift the embargo on all products exported to the Russian market." Report by Congressman Larissa Vassilis Kokalis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on "Acts of the great work of re-creating Lake Carlas". MEP Heraklion Vassilios Kegeroglou filed a petition to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "Annulment of recruitment of permanent staff and staff with employment for an indefinite period in primary OTA". Report by congressman Lassithi Mr Constantine Dermitzakis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The need for a direct replacement of a teacher at the 3rd Municipal School of Zakros". Report by Ms Nikolaos Syrmalenios, Antonis Syrigou, Nikolaos Maniou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the ferry connection Santorini - Crete". Report by the Members of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Syrmalenios, Mr Antonis Syrigou, Mr Nikolaos Maniou, to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject? "Close the archaeological site and museum of Delos". Report by Members of Parliament, Mr Dektariou Santorini, Mr Dimitrios Gakis and Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Serious problems of subsistence and decommissioning the Works Inspectorate of Rhodes". Report by Mr. Ioannis Micheloganakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "Requests and positions of the Association of Professional Owners of Cars Taxi Heraklion". MEP Ioannis Micheloganakis submits with a reference to the letter of the Association of Professional Owners of Car Passengers Taxi Heraklion on the subject: "Requests and positions of the Association of Professional Owners of Cars Taxi Heraklion", which highlights the proposals of the Association, in order to correct the injustices created by the previous bills implemented in the field of passenger land transport. Report by Ms. Ioannis Vroutzis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "Assistant and reliable ships on the coastline of the Cyclades". Report by Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "Ministerial Department and Security Department Zefyri Municipality of Florida". MEP Georgios Vlachos' report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "After information, as well as a publication in the electronic press of the area of our Municipality that has come to light during the last 24 hours, we are amazed to learn about the withdrawal of the group DIA from Rafina and Pichermi. In this letter I would like to express to you my dissatisfaction with my institutions and fellow citizens, as well as our strong protest about this design that leaves the municipality of Rafina - Pikermi impotent." Parliamentarians Athanasios Vardalis and Helen Gerasimidou submitted to the Minister of National Defence as a reference to the letter from the Association of Parents and Gardens of the Municipality of Cordelios - Evrosmos "Aristotleis" requesting information on the issues of two camps in the Municipality of Cordelios - Evosmos. Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, to the Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, to the Minister for Health and Social Security: "Please be sure to place you on a letter which has been forwarded to us by e-mail Mrs Athena Economicimidou, on behalf of single divorced daughters, on the abolition of pension provisions for ns. No 3865/2010, n. Date of birth: 4093/2012 and n. 4151/2013’. Congressman Heraklion Vassilios Kegeroglou submitted a report to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "Report on the re-establishment of the Municipal Police". Report by Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and to the Minister of Finance: "Please for your placement on a letter which has been forwarded to us by e-mail, the office of Mayor of West Achaia, which contains a request to extend the settlement of late debts to the OTAs as well. MEP Heraklion Vassilios Kegeroglou filed a petition to the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Application of positions for the Social Work Programme", in order for the Municipality of Vianno to ensure that his staff are strengthened for the implementation of this programme. Report by Mr Michael Kritsotakis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Ministers for Labour and Social Solidarity, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the subject: "Adsolution of problems relating to the labour sector in the ultra-urban - urban CATEL of Crete". Report by Mr Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: ‘Illegal dismissal of a worker at the Arcadia CCES S.A.’. Report by Mr Rahiel Makri, Member of Parliament, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of "The need to serve the vets of the Municipality of Boiu". Report by MPs Mr Nikolaos Symλenios, Antonioios Syrigou and Nikolaos Srmoleniou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Finance, Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: ‘Proposals of the Association of Owners of Located Rooms and Apartments of Sifnos for Tourism’. Parliamentary I Thessaloniki Despilas Charalapidou's report to the Minister of Health and Social Security on the subject: "Pronouncement of the Head of the Regional Provisions of the Regional Directorate of EOPYY Thessaloniki", which denounces the phenomena of intense mismanagement at the EEAY Thessaloniki. It follows an attachment to a letter. Report by Mr Ioannis Vroutzis on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity on 'Suspension of the local branch IKA - Apple ETAM'. Report by Congressman Larissa Christos Kelles to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion on the subject: "Photo call for the creation of an ICT Certification Centre's Registry". Report by Ms. Christos Boukorous to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religion on the subject: "Restoration of a diploma for football coach TEFA". Report by Mr Nicholas Karathanasopoulos and Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the subject: "Collection of the Municipality of Kalamata on the claim of German allowances and the principal loan". Report by Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, Member of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, to the Minister for Health and Social Security, on the subject: "The need for a direct staffing of the Regional Health Service Sifnos". Report by Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, Member of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM(86) 660 final — Doc. Report by Congressman Korinthias Christos Dimas to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism: "In this report I would like to inform you of the positions of the Federation of Corinthian Ecological Organisations of Corinthian Gulf "OLKYON" on the erosion of the coasts of the Corinthian Gulf and the problems of the long-term sustainable development of the region". Parliamentary Karditsas Mr Tsiara Konstantinou's report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on "The Food and Dietology Department of the TEI of Thessaly in Karditsa". Report by Members Stavros Tassos, Diamonds Manolakou and Manolis Synhonaki to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the letter from the Mayor of Ikaria, calling for the financial support of the municipality for the maintenance, improvement and development of sports facilities. Report by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism: "Please for your placement on a letter which has been forwarded to us by e-mail Mr Pantelis Kousis, President of the Board. of the Dodecanese Association of Directors of the Dodecanese Prefecture, on proposals and requests for measures in order to combat corruption and conflict in driving licences." Report by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulou to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity on a document from the Federation of Professional, Craftwork and Trade Unions, which calls for the treatment of issues not covered by the current regulations on outstanding debts. Report by the MPs Mr Athanasios Vardalis and Mr Helenis Gerasimidou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the resolution of the popular assembly of the inhabitants of the Municipality of Thermi and the Committee of Struggle against the Biomass Units in Basilica and Lakkis, requesting that the two power plants should not be installed from biomass gasification and combustion of the synthetic gas produced in the area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-27-S1-commons.u11	With the consent of the House at 10.50 p.m. the sitting on Monday, March 30, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
