ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u1	Madam and Mr Colleague, the meeting begins. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS For reasons of convenience, I will delete the questions of those of Members of Parliament who are absent - and they have certainly informed in time - and I will be coming to the two colleagues first to Mrs Tahiau and then to Mr Cameroon. Therefore, the first under No 453/28-7-2015 top-stage question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the completion of the Koropi-Payanian sewer network, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The second question, under number 449/27-7-2015, is the first question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Michael Arvanitis to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, and the Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the problems posed by illegal immigrants in the port of Patras to the transnational transporters, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. We enter the third under No 447/27-7-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary I Thessaloniki Mr.Christina Tachiaou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the treatment of fires and the preparedness of the Center for Civil Protection Operations. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Ioannis Panousis. At least, in the days when I happen to chair is the first minister to come in full time and thank him. Well, because they are only two colleagues, there will also be tolerance to develop your questions a little better. Here, Mrs. Tachiau, you have the floor for two minutes, but there will be a little tolerance to be able to complete the development of your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for being here today, to answer my question. The fires never warn us. They suddenly erupt, burn everything, and already at the moment we're talking, today, fire broke out in the keracini in a woodland, while the boots in Attica are up. We all know that prevention is the most important weapon against fires. And as you know very well, prevention has two directions. It has the means to deal with fires and to prepare public opinion in order to avoid actions that may cause fires. Because, badly lies, most of them are caused by human actions. As far as fires are concerned, the situation is really grim at the moment. Half the Canadairs are decommissioned. The supply of their spare parts has been unduly delayed. One-third of the resources available for the firefighting are old. The recent fires that broke out at the same time in Laconia, Attica, Skyros and other parts of our country showed us the anti-nuclear poverty that we are in this summer. It is a common secret that the fear of all those involved in the treatment of fires is that if two major fires break out at the same time, they will not be able to cope, because there are no means. At the moment, we are relying on the credibility of firefighting and the vigilance of all those working in the ERCES, the Single Coordinating Centre, the JEP, the Civil Protection Operations Centre, in 199 and the SKED, the Forest Coordination Centre. On the other hand, the Preparatory Actions of the Ministry to inform the public about this issue were incomplete. You know well, Minister, we all know, when the anti-nuclear period begins, and you know well what to do at that time. It's not just what needs to be done in relation to the services you're supervising, the fire brigade and the Greek police. You also have the responsibility to coordinate even deforestation of archaeological sites, even deforestation of railway lines. But you also have the main responsibility to keep public opinion informed so that people can avoid fire. At the beginning of the anti-nuclear period you were refreshed to the low temperatures that prevailed at that time, and that makes sense. That's usually the way it happens. This is how communication policy began to inform the public, to the extent that it does not exist. The bad news, however, is that the same thing went on in June, because there was the same rest. We had low temperatures again and many rains, rare for June. However, the zeals in July stopped this set-aside and showed precisely the lack of targeted public information. On the issue of fire protection, it is a little difficult to accept justifications that there is no money and that the funds are empty. We know that. It's a general situation. We hear it all the time. However, specific funds are available every year, but they must be committed, which must be available, in order to meet emergencies that can cause large and destructive fires. In this six-month period, however, we have seen transfers from budget lines relating to the main security issues of the Greek territory, in order to pay instalments of the country's loans in order to meet other needs, even wages and pensions. And I would like to know whether the sums entered to meet the emergency requirements in the case of fires are in place or have been transferred elsewhere. I'm waiting for your answers, Minister. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor with the tolerance also in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, I will begin with a great thank you to the Fire Corps, the Headquarters, any firefighter and volunteer, and the Secretary-General of Civil Protection, because they have done so far with the means that you have said - and I will come back - to face more than three hundred fires and a great success. I remind you that two, three Sundays ago, every three minutes, we had a fire. I will come back for the reasons. But you're wrong with us. I don't know what happened the other years. I don't have a political controversy. In March we started preparing the anti-nuclear period. March! We had extreme effects in winter with landslides that caused problems on the forest roads. With the fire-fighting helicopter, we've turned all the islands, turned all the fire-fighting services. We talked to all the firefighters all over Greece. This is what happens in April and May, just to see the shortcomings, to raise their morale, and I want to assure you that none of those who run the fires has given us any issues, no uniforms or retrospectives. This shows the high mind and the little one - you want to say - the esteem - as you want to say. We took off the fullest circular and very early, because many districtlors and mayors were newly elected and did not know exactly how to operate. All the fire patrols, the upcoming patrols, the Armed Forces and the Police contribute, we have all the pyroscopes with hikers around - around Athens. Indeed, the fleet is both old and young. We tried to find the planes from elsewhere, both from Canadair and in leasing in other ways. Airfleet: Ten "215", against 12 which are the power, five "415" against seven, seventeen young people, seventeen against nineteen, five helicopters, the two are Super Puma, ten hired fire helicopters, three heavy and seven middle-type helicopters. We had the fires and had already informed Italy and France in my paper in April that if we were to have a problem, even though this is not provided for in the European mechanism, they would have us in mind. And as soon as the problem appeared, we asked for them to come - and they came - two "415" and a six-member, French-Canadair, who attempted in Zakynthos, Argolida and closed up Naples a little. I want to tell you that 10% to 15% are the natural causes. So far we have PPC, landfills, OSE, i.e. lines that they made, wooded trees and beekeepers. Four, five are the suspected cases - Malakasa, Zakynthos and some other places - where the fire exam works. I shall return to prevention, because I fully agree with the means of repression. You see what happens in France, Spain, Italy, Canada, countries with infinite means. And yet the fires are beyond them. We're not out of our minds right now. I also hope that the new wave expected from 5 to 10 August, according to the weather phenomena from the day after tomorrow, will be such that at the source we will stop it. As for yesterday we were discussing, thirty-four fires took place. We stopped them at the source. And this is a major success in the logic of prevention and I will come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u5	Mrs. Tachiau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u6	Apparently we've been lucky so far. That's what it looks like to be the situation to be summed up. However, I did not get any clear answers. Is the Canadair spare parts or not delayed this year? Because you said that it is seventeen instead of nineteen, avoiding clarifying just how much they can work, how much they are decommissioned and exactly what is happening. I mean, you gave the numbers, but you didn't tell us that those planes I'm telling you can fly. Helicopters too can do the job. A lot of them are decommissioned. It's also written in the reports. It's something we know. I think you're gonna say it now if you come back. But is that not causing problems in the case of fires suppression? There was or was not a problem of adequacy of means now that we had these fires in Laconia, Naples, Attica, the two major fires in Skyros, etc.Huh? We are relying on people's honesty and you are absolutely right. There's this honorable one. I don't doubt you went and did your investigation. The issue of landslides, of course, has nothing to do with the anti-nuclear period, if I'm not mistaken. We also had in my neighborhood, Halkidiki, landslides that caused huge problems. We are in the middle of summer. And you know, you said it yourself, that we still have a very long future, and they can make fires. Fires may occur at any time. So the public should not be informed? Right now it's nonexistent. You gave us the causes. Maybe we should take this much more seriously. Looks like they've inactivated everything. The ELAS HRAKLES group responsible for supervising the forests during high-risk fires has inactivated. At the moment that at Attica there were extremely strong winds in the previous fires, did you mobilize these forces? The General Secretariat of Civil Protection warned of a fire risk. But were those people who always run? Has the public been informed to avoid actions? Oh, no. But instead, we heard some voices about'symmetric threats' and not just from you. We also heard it from the Attica Regional Administrator, Mrs Durou, who was talking about an organized arson plan. There was all that rhetoric from that side. At the same time, however, the very competent investigation authorities of the Fire Service did their job directly. Two beekeepers were arrested and those responsible for these fires were arrested. Also, while blowing terribly strong winds in the Aegean and Attica, you did not take preventive action. You have not ruled out access to forests and especially perimeters such as Hymittos. You didn't mobilize the police forces to control the application of some bans. You did not do anything essential to inform the public, how to avoid fires in the countryside, not to throw lit cigarettes. It is the ones that every year we see them coming back to life. We would like a proper and honest information for the public. The Civil Protection and the Fire Corps are doing a serious and responsible job. You also did not answer the question of money at all, whether in order for them to have the means to be able to do their job, these people have the funds available. This is an interesting point, on which I sincerely, Minister, I would expect an answer to know exactly what is happening to us. I'll wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u7	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u8	You're wrong with us. And you'll see why you're wrong with us. Procurement. The supplies go through the General Secretariat of Trade. The competitions are barren, not ending or slowing down. We're trying to get it out. Money. Coverage of fire protection actions: EUR 18,400,000. Preventive cleaning, maintenance and improvement of forest network, which is of great importance, because landfill bans access, so you can't go. Strengthen volunteer actions in Ottas, equipment, tanker, generators, wireless. Operational costs: fuels, overtime, etc. The costs of the regular budget of the Fire Corps: 53,000. It's 10,000,000 less than we need. 17,000,000 is a total for hiring ten fire-fighting helicopters. But where you are wrong with us is information. Listen. An information bulletin on forest fires has been issued in 900,000 copies. They've been sent everywhere. In the matrix of the national roads you will see them. Television spot. The channels are playing it. E-mails: printed 'You know how to protect yourself'. Information letter to secondary school pupils. The Chief of the Fire Corps and the Secretary General went to the Archbishop and asked him to tell him Sundays at the churches in the preaching “watch out the fires.” This is in April, in May, not now with the fires. We've put posters on all the ships at the ferry companies, we've put projections on the ship screens, briefing briefings of the firefighting officer in the schools. We've done everything. It's not just luck, it's a rational division of powers, it's a distribution. If you put everything on one spot, and as you said, there are five fires in different places, you won't catch anything. The way we distribute the powers is important. But you know what? It is a matter of banning the movement of vehicles in particular where you have been wronged. Along with army jeep, the police at night closed everything, hence no other phenomena. In other words, when we had the fire in Byron, nothing happened in the perimeter forests, because we keep it all the time, and the police and the Army. The Political Institutions for Regional Units are coordinated and these are running and the municipalities are running. Not always a success, not always a single one. But we've left nothing that we don't really do and I'll be happy to give new ideas. Civil Protection means political consensus, synergy and co-responsibility with what is going on in our country and with what we have. I want to hope that we will get through this anti-nuclear period smoothly, efficiently. I'm most of the time at the Business Center. The Secretary General is sleeping there, Mr. Mavropoulos. The Chief with me is turning all the sites. I think we're gonna be okay. Now, what you are right is that, if everything goes well for our country - and not just for the anti-nuclear - in October, it has to draw up another policy, another policy for everything called the Fire Corps, forest fire, forest protection, the natural and historical wealth of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u9	I should like to thank the Minister for his time. On behalf of Parliament, and therefore on behalf of the Greek people, I would like to endorse what she said about the women and men of the Fire Corps and to express our thanks and gratitude to the House for the timely service it offers. Minister, you are free to serve unless you want to join the nice Minister, who "where he loves to train" and I refer to my dear colleague and friend, the Deputy Minister of Tourism, Mr. Helena Kountoura, who will be delayed for one and a half minutes to read the questions that are being cancelled. The first, with number 454/28-7-2015, topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP Grevenes, Timoleidon Kollion, to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on measures to resurrect the economy in Northern Greece, will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. The second one, with number 450/27-7-2015, is a topical question by MP II Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of National Defence, on the financial cuts in the Armed Forces and the weakening of the Greek Defence Force, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The third, with number 427/14-7-2015, is a topical question by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandra Chanaka to the Minister of National Defence, on the performance of the premises of the Asmakopoulou camp and the airport of Amydaleon Kavala in Local Government, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fifth, under number 395/29-6-2015, topical question by the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the statements by the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr Nikolaos Kotzias during his visit to Skopje on 24-6-2015, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The sixth question under number 401/30-6-2015 of the New Republic MP Rethymnon, Ioannis Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning creditors' requirements for expenditure cuts in the Armed Forces, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The seventh question, number 219/14-5-2015, topical question of the second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the provocative action of Skopje in Florina, will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister. The eighth Question No 234/18-5-2015 topical question of the Attica MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on bilateral relations with the neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The ninth under number 168/28-4-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of our Macedonian name to the Skopje", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Finally, the first question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, about the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "Aydinlik" that "Turkey proceeded to a committee for the claim of 16 Greek islands", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. We've been on vacation, it looks like we're on vacation. I hope that this will be formalised in an hour's time at the Conference of Presidents. We enter the fourth with number 412-7-2015 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilias Kamaterou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the saturated tourist areas and inequality in development. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Helena Koutura. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, what you said before 'he loves him' applies more to me, because I am the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u11	I happen to know her for a few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u12	I say this because because of the question he is present today. Excuse me, Minister, but I think it will not be in vain for our debate, much more so that our fellow citizens are now fighting to survive, under the difficult circumstances that we are experiencing. I think it is essential that the debate we are dealing with on tourism, on the occasion of the saturated regions and, more generally, on these days in which we are all in shock, because we have had to accept an agreement which we did not want and which we are trying to have in this agreement, which will give us a perspective. You know very well that one of these, one of the three fundamentals, beyond the budget and beyond the debt settlement, is the development, which we will also support some funding that we expect, as long as the agreement is signed. It is therefore very important to see how we plan this development so that the money is not lost or not to go where the world has gone so far and the world is not benefiting, much more because we are talking about tourism, which we all say is the heavy industry and we hope in an economic recovery through it. Minister, I very much appreciate your efforts, which are made to extend the season, but also to raise the pie of the national product from tourism, but we must discuss and answer some questions. Who benefit from this development? I am afraid, I am sure, that a few, some more foreigners benefit, in conjunction with a number of local businessmen who have made tourism a monopoly. Unfortunately, they are already planning, because so far we have been lacking a general national spatial planning for the development of the country, and that is what everyone knows. Apart from this, there are special spatial planning, which, at times, are changing and changing, adapting to the interests of those who have been sewed for so many years, any development of our country. In order to be more specific, because we are talking about tourism, we know very well that tourism in our country is always controlled to some extent - especially in recent years as it is getting worse - from two or three - and I could say two and call them - big agencies, tour operators. They also have airlines, channel wherever they want tourists, control the economy of the place where they go and "invest", finance any actions they want and serve specific in some areas considered to be fillet, finance hotel facilities, beds to create overcapacity and achieve low prices and exploit local entrepreneurs, especially the smaller ones. Unfortunately, our state, the public, not only does it not plan, but it assists and acts as a lever to serve these interests here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I thank the President for the time, but it is an opportunity, since we are alone and has the kindness to give us time to develop some aspects. I'll try to finish my first speech. I am going to be more specific, and that is why, in my question, I raise the issue of saturation. I'm talking more about the islands, because that's where I live, I work and I act. We know that, especially the islands are many speeds. We know we have the developed, the least developed and the abandoned. We also know that each island has its own peculiarity. There is no plan to premium or plan the development of the islands on the basis of these advantages. Examples I'll mention. We know Patmos has religious tourism. We know about the architecture of Leros and Symi. We know about Kos's history and environment. We know about the climbing tourism of Kalymnos, the marine tourism that could be developed, the fishing tourism of Kalymnos, the underwater park. Unfortunately, all this is not within the designs of the tour operators. Their plans are how to make five large hotels and create saturation in the areas we say, especially in the islands of Rhodes and Kos. That is to say, it is considered - and we can then talk about whether or not I am right - that on these islands we have exceeded the limits, we have exceeded the bearer - as is called - the capacity to develop tourist development on these islands so that it is now operating vice versa. In other words, any addition of beds poses an economic, social, and evil problem is that the Greek State continues to participate by donating these hotel units. In other words, let me finish with that expression, Minister, as if we were to take our eyes off. It's like subsidizing our judgment. And this should not be done in the new development plan, at least by our government, which has undertaken to change this policy. And that is the hope of the world, despite the hard measures that they are willing to accept inevitably, but which are also awaiting from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u13	Also with tolerance of time, I call on Minister Elena Koudoura to take the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you first of all for the timely question, because that is how you can give me the opportunity and the opportunity to inform the House of politics and of our design at the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the efforts we are making through the specific regional planning guidelines for tourism, to promote sustainable and balanced development of tourism throughout Greece. Before I go any further, I would like to clarify a few points in your question, on the one hand, in relation to the use of the term 'cold areas', on the other hand, your claim to the lack of development planning. The concept of landfill areas is no longer in existence. It was repealed in 2005 by a ministerial decision. And the spatial planning exists at all levels, especially in the tourism sector, the Special Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development Framework for Tourism is applicable, which was initially adopted in 2009 and was amended in 2013. So, with this current tourism-specific spatial planning, the areas that, in your timely question, are characterised as saturated are part of the developed tourist areas. The main objectives of the specific spatial planning are, among other things, the promotion of sustainable and balanced development of the country's tourism, the diffusion of development opportunities and the strengthening of less developed areas, along with the development of naturally specific and alternative forms of tourism - as you mentioned - in order to address the problem of the concentration of tourist investments in specific areas only, which you have asked in your timely question. The problems that the developed tourist regions often face are taken into account in the specific spatial planning for tourism, which defines clear guidelines for their decommissioning, and in particular emphasises the implementation of integrated management practices, first of water resources, but also of liquid and solid waste, improving the energy efficiency of tourist facilities and restoring valuable buildings or sets, transforming traditional maintained buildings into high-level hotel units, withdrawing also derelict or abandoned tourist facilities, and refurbishing public spaces to increase free areas and green areas. The tourist accommodation itself is prioritised in the modernisation and upgrading of the existing units for their supplementation with special tourist infrastructures, which enrich the tourist product - because, as you know, quality is very important for us - and with high-level benefits. It is of particular importance that in the current tourism sector, the placement of new accommodation in off-project areas is discouraged, in any case, by the creation of organised tourist accommodations and in any case limited to four and five star accommodations, with the necessary field span of about twenty acres. Finally, we note that it is proposed in the specific spatial planning that specific areas be designated as active intervention and regeneration areas in order to respond more fully to existing pressures and to their overall upgrading. The regions in Rhodes and Kos, which were previously characterized as saturated, now fall under the general status of the Tourism Control Areas (ITUs). It is a 1986 decision, which only allows the creation of new main AA accommodations, but also an A class, that is, four and five stars. Expansions are permitted only for additional AA or A class beds, but without exceeding any defined maximum total capacity and, of course, supplementing the service provided without the addition of new beds. As far as your second question is concerned, according to data from the Regional Tourism Agency, the total capacity of the hotel accommodation from 2007 until now increased by 14 thousand beds in Rhodes and about nine thousand beds in Kos. In any case, the total of these beds has been approved and licensed in accordance with the applicable spatial, urban and tourist provisions. Now, because you have put your timely question and the private sector issue, we must point out that the Ministry as a public body cannot and is not allowed to pursue a protectionist policy and in any case cannot oblige or direct the private initiative, rather than encourage it and define the more general urban and spatial legal framework. Greece lives from tourism, tourism is a national product. I think that its development is coming through the right, legitimate investments, which will give us the opportunity to prolong the period, will enable us to open up new markets, will enable us to have high-level benefits and services.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u16	Madam Minister, I am, of course, clear, although I believe that it has been understood, that my timely question is in the direction of contributing to the pursuits of our Government for the benefit of our country. Why am I saying it? Because I have a total opposition to relying as a ministry in previous decrees and previous plans. I'll tell you about saturation. You know, whether an area is saturated - I don't know if it should be called saturation or carrying capacity or endurance, as you want to say - it is not determined by ministerial decision. We will not determine by ministerial decision whether someone is fat or weak or hungry or has eaten more. I'm sorry for the use of the example. These are not defined by ministerial decisions. It is a given if an area is able to withstand or cannot withstand more tourism. This is scientifically acceptable and internationally. In fact, there are also studies by the EOT itself, which refer to what saturation means. And because the studies are large, let me just one piece to say to you: "It is estimated that in the immediate future the estimation of capacity can be based on the following indicator grid: first, environmental indicators, i.e. available natural receptor and coast capacity. Second, socio-economic indicators, a percentage of naturally available solid waste, quality available to natural waste recipients, energy adequacy, adequacy of water resources, a population relationship between permanent residents and visitors, an average of completeness over the last decade, an average rate of reduction of revenue per bed over a decade, health care adequacy.’; These are all elements that determine whether or not an area is able to withstand. In particular, in these areas I am telling you, the phenomenon of starting no more water, free beaches are not there, the environment is destroyed, the airport is not enough and we need to do greater, the port is not enough for us and we need to make a bigger road network. Who pays all this, Minister? The Greek people? As an infrastructure to serve who? The tour operators, who are paid abroad, are prepaid for travel by foreigners with all inclusive - you know it very well - and it is not enough for them to come and rampant by local society what is circulating in money. You know that very well, and I have no problem saying it publicly, that they legally get a percentage even from a shop where they'll take strangers to eat. We know that. And it's not enough for them, they're arrogant! As long as they go, they want to raise the pie from the tourism, which they want to eat. And what is the benefit to the local population? Isn't it enough that they're wasting wealth by paying the cost, by what wages do the workers work? Do you know where they've gone? Do you know under which conditions they work? You know, the question is rhetorical.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u17	I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u18	I want to say that this is what we need to see, that is, exhausting hours, low wages, that workers are not paid, that they live on islands and work under conditions of slavery - let me have that expression. A SYRIZA and ANEL government must overturn all this. I'm sorry, I'm not comfortable telling me that there's a spatial plan for tourism, what's there. You know very well that SYRIZA himself fought it when it was voted, you know very well that organisations such as the Technical Chamber of Commerce, such as environmental organisations, fought it personally on the islands, I know that on my island, which we do not need it, are scheduled to become golf courses, instead of all of what I told you about our islands and to scatter on the surrounding islands and see that there is a balance and not just go to Kos or to Rhodes, where foreigners find the "filet" to eat - I don't tell them about investors, because this is not an investment, it's a stink. There, then, we must bear weight and reverse this policy and this design here. Apart from golf, I have to tell you that they're planning holiday homes in Kos. So we are not enough to have so many beds and, as you said very well, we are allowed five and four stars and extensions, etc. Let me tell you a number I've asked for some evidence for the last two years. The beds in Kos are six thousand three hundred - the official, the approved ones - and in Rhodes two thousand eighty. Do you know what that means? The saturation data, from a 2003-saturation study, I say it, as you say it - was that Kos had exceeded the limits of Crete by eight times, Rhodes by five times, if I'm not mistaken, Greece twenty-fold, as regards saturation in density, beaches, residents, etc. In 2003 these and the study had been done with beds, if I remember well fifty and something with fifty - three thousand. Now you know how many Kos is? Leave the official one that could be a hundred and something. Unofficial is about a hundred and fifty thousand. So since 2003, having all these supercoronation elements, we are now coming and the beds have more than tripled. So, what if we do a study of what's going to come out? I'm sorry, for the time. To conclude, I would like to say and ask you, Minister, because I have confidence in your good will, do not just rely on the services and data, the adopted legislation and the legislation that exists. You challenge a meeting - I don't know what you will do - to bring back some old studies and update them or to draw up a new study, a new spatial planning, which will meet the expectations of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u19	I think that tourism is an issue on which there can be national policy and national strategy, and that is where only I disagree with the SYRIZA plan, the New Democracy plan. It's a piece, which by the way, and because it's the particular person in that ministry, there can be. Because I agree with many of you, not everything, on many things. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u20	Mr Colleague, thank you very much. You are right, we are all struggling for how tourism is going in Greece and that is why, because its growth is very important and, as I have said before, it is a national product, it is very sensitive, but at the same time it is tourism, as everyone says, our heavy industry, in the sense that it is the largest economic source of revenue today, but at the same time it is the only area that gives us so many jobs - it is about seven hundred and fifty thousand direct, and it is up to one and a half million indirect - is very important to be able to support it, of course, in such a way that we do not interfere in the environment in a bad way, as you have rightly said, but also to be able to pursue spatial planning. You know very well that land planning in the country is general. The spatial planning of sustainable development for tourism is a part, it is an area. I'm sure it's not what we'd like. Of course he can have improvements. In any case, we have pointed this out in the past, and we know what it is all that needs to be corrected. So, in our national strategy, we want to develop tourism, but we want it in such a way that it does not affect the environment. It is also true that in local communities and in local economies it will also help to develop these economies in local communities, as well as in jobs. I say this because you mentioned the word 'Korrit' twice - three times. I will not disagree, in some areas that are supposed to be sometime, that some indicators may not have to increase further and they were called developed tourist areas and controlled tourist areas, I think there is the possibility of not creating new accommodations of tourists, either large or four five stars or smaller. The Ministry supports all initiatives towards tourist development, where they can be right, in the sense that there is no definition of carrying capacity and there are no indicators to say what the capacity is. As regards the fact that we must, of course, support the infrastructure and that, of course, certain airports which have been abandoned for other reasons, because they have to be sold today, even though these contracts have not been completed, our airports are facing many problems, we have made intervention to make some small improvements so that in the reception areas - because not only are the airports, they are the ports - when our tourists come to see a decent entry. Also, as far as the issue of beds is concerned, we ourselves blamed, if you remember, models, such as those of Spain that were building some huge buildings on the beaches that were spoiling and the environment. We said that Greece's advantage is that it has remained authentic, namely that it has not violated either environmental studies or spatial planning, so as to create a bad image. But you have also mentioned some elements which are not correct. The beds - at least the official evidence - in Rhodes are eighty-seven thousand and in Kos, just forty-six thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u21	It's plastic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u22	I would therefore like to say that we do not have any indicators, which really define whether development should be stopped on these islands. As well as my assessment of the Ministry that we are trying to see the best, so that we can stay authentic, but also on the basis of environmental studies and all the research that we have done, there must be growth without any problems. We are in this direction. The national planning and strategy we are doing in this direction are. You know that, after all, because we have discussed it. From there on, we will take all the measures so that problems do not arise, instead of increasing our tourism and developing, to have the expected results in the coming years, because our national strategy is for the next four years. And I repeat - and with this I will close - that it is three important: it is the extension of the period, that local societies can respond to this prolongation and provide support for both regions and municipalities. For its part, the Ministry will take all these measures with which it will help and ensure all new investments or the existing ones, which want to be renovated, and we also need alternative forms of tourism to promote regions of our country, which are not known - and, if you like, are not popular - but, at the same time, to be able to support this part that is so important, which is a national product, because I think it is at the moment the largest economic source in our country. And as you said, because we are living at a difficult time, I think that if this year's tourism continues to have this positive figure, which has so far - despite the problems and the upset that have arisen through the negotiations and, anyway, political controversy - and if everything goes well, we will be closing again with a positive sign for 2015 and we will have the whole time before us so that we can make sure and study and have all those conditions that will assure us that tourism will continue to grow properly and with priority always - if you want - man and the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u23	I thank the Minister, Mr Cameroon and my colleagues in the Chair. If the information is confirmed, the House will be closed for a few days. I wish everyone had a good time. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-03-S1-commons.u24	With the consent of the House, 18.50 minutes shall be closed.
