ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 23 March 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 52-17-2015 by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Vassiliki Katrivanou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding ensuring publicity and protection of witnesses in the forthcoming trial of the Golden Dawn. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 45-16-3-2015 topical question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on technical integration and the final tradition of the project of Corinth - Kalamata - Sparta. 3. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Eleni Zaroulia to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the planning of the Government in order to address the threat of jihadists. 4. The current question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Bardalis to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Social Solidarity on the continuation of the work in METRO Thessaloniki. 5. The question asked by MEP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the cut-off of the provincial district network "Hania Agrilari - Platana - Kymi Beach". 6. The question asked by MP Dodecanese of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the failure to comply with the protocol of official guests during the recent public events in Rhodes on the national anniversary of the Dodecanese in Greece. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Kostas Karamanlis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the flood protection of the Serres Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 50/16-3-2015 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarou, to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the oligopoly of the authorities responsible for dealing with paedophilia. 3. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning direct and effective assistance to the flood victims in the region of Epirus and Itolokarnania. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the financing of the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources. I also have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committees on Economic Affairs and Social Affairs are tabling their report in the draft law: 'Agreements on the relaunching of the economy'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 18/10-3-2015, the first question of the New Democracy MP Evros, Anastasios Purchas, to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the treatment of the repeated flooding in the Prefecture of Evros. The Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr Evangelos Apostolos will respond. Mr. Treasury has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Evros is the beginning of Greece and the beginning of Europe. It is sad that this blessed and historic place today presents this tragic picture, as was shaped after the repeated floods. Minister, today we are talking about traveling the distance from Alexandroupolis to Ferries, Soufli, Twinsmotich, Orestiad and reaching the final point of our country, which is Ormene, now finds that while we had rivers, we have now acquired up to the vertical line of the train and endless lakes. Strong weather phenomena have caused incalculable damage to the primary sector of the region. The overflow of the river Evros, the seedlings of Ardas and Erythropotamus, as well as the Tundza and Ergin by East Thrace and the resulting flooding resulted in extensive damage to plant production and livestock as well as to the primary manufacturing sector infrastructure as well as to the road network. Damages of serious, also caused in housing, stables and warehouses of the settlements of Soufli and Lagina but also in farms and warehouses located in the plain. Over a hundred thousand acres of plant production are already destroyed. The rural road network has been destroyed in a large part. The impurities in the coastal areas have suffered extensive damage. The damaged pumps of the TWG Evros are hundreds, with the Orestiad GEO having recorded huge damage to all infrastructure and networks. Furthermore, the manufacturing industry, from which a significant export activity was launched, suffered enormous damage. A characteristic example is the complete destruction of the Common Agricultural Cooperative in Evros, who is in danger of losing his successful presence on the international rail market. In addition to all that concerning the internal dimension of the problem of Evros river destructive flooding, there is in this crucial issue and a strong external international dimension. This concerns our relations with neighbouring Bulgaria. The conviction created is that the Bulgarian side is almost applying the valid warning system agreed with our country in cases of steep and sudden rise of the level at first the Arda River with the Ivailgrad dams and, secondly, Evros in the Bulgarian territory. That is why we are asking today what direct moves the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy intends to make. Will the affected, in particular, be compensated, and will the infrastructure be restored? Is the political will to circumvent any bureaucratic and other obstacles, so that the farmers in the Prefecture of Evros will be fully and promptly compensated? Will the infrastructure be restored in a short time, so that the spring sowing can survive as much as possible? The early one is already gone, and normal sowing is in danger of being lost, and late ones will be at risk. What will the Ministry of Interior do to compensate for flood damages? The homes, warehouses, stables, auxiliary spaces, and their construction, have suffered considerable disasters. Will the Municipalities of Dubot and Sufli be immediately strengthened, as they do not have to pay the professionals, who, with their machines in the night, help to draw water that has drowned the inhabited areas? Finally, as a government, what are you going to do about the more than fifteen football stadiums, which have suffered serious damage to the Dumoche and Sufly, so that thousands of young people do not have access to sports facilities? Will there also be cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that the chronic problem of the Evros River can be resolved diplomatically with neighbouring states, even if we need to reach European level and fight the relevant European institutions? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank the honourable Member. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 23rd Elementary School of Evosmos Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor, Mr Apostolos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, we are starting the process of parliamentary scrutiny with the rural area, which I must stress, because not only does it show that it is an area that has many problems, but above all because there is also a great interest by my fellow Members, especially in the region and especially in Evros, for which we are discussing today. This is illustrated even by the image of Members present. Finally, the House must begin to deal with an area that we, at least, regard as the area that can help us in the crisis that we are experiencing today. Many questions have been raised by my colleague. The anguish of the respecter, as well as of all colleagues, I would say, particularly of Evros and Macedonia, who, because the problems are similar, have the corresponding anxiety. We as the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, as you know, Mr Colleague, have been on the side of the farmers and farmers of Evros and the other regions affected. We have a duty - that is what we always stress - to support farmers, to support farmers. From the first moment of the disaster, therefore, the Deputy Minister Panagiotis Sguridis has been in the area. We also had meetings with the Presidents of ELGA, with the Secretary General of the Ministry. So I would say that in general we now have a picture of the damage that has been done, as you yourself described it. That is why I have asked the President of the ELGA to start the announcement of damages, but also the assessments in the affected areas, in order to pay the compensation to the affected farmers and farmers in time. The tiles visited the affected areas - where they were able to enter, especially in the December floods - to detect the damage. At this time, as you know, the phenomenon is in such an outburst that it does not allow us to enter to see the latest damages that exist. Still, we're in touch. Last but not least, if you remember, we held a large meeting with the presence of all, hereditaries, mayors, districts, parliamentarians, representatives more broadly, I would say, of the region. In fact, representatives from other ministries, such as the Ministry of Infrastructure, took part in this meeting, and we have actually reached out for the priorities we set for Evros. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, you can understand that this is a very big issue and I will be a little misused in time. So as far as Evros is concerned, we have announced the following: As far as livestock is concerned, assessments have been completed and every effort will be made to pay ELGA compensation to those farmers who are insured, i.e. they have paid their contributions. In cotton, the associated aid is already paid and in all cases we have problems will be resolved by June. With regard to winter cereals, garlic and asparagus, which have been affected by the floods, as we have said at the meeting, as soon as possible, we will proceed to the assessments. As far as the remaining damage to herbal capital is concerned as I told you - they are also the members of the ELGA branch in the region - and after the finalisation of the damage you know that the relevant dossier will be submitted to the European Commission, so that we can have their approval for payment through State aid, the known de minimis. At the same time, there is an attempt on the part of the Ministry to make use of a sum of EUR 100,000 for land improvements and for damage cover, in order to increase this amount, in order at least to respond to immediate needs, to operate. Of course, the Ministry of Rural Development is also moving on to other measures, trying to do so in the rural development programme that it is running - and it does not have the absorption that it should have - if we can also incorporate damage, even by making a request for a change, I would say, of the eligibility of expenditure. From there on, Mr President, because there is another part to which I have not answered, I may say more and, of course, the relocation of my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Treasury, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, the timelessness of the problem is not an excuse. Of course, we recognize to the Minister and the State Secretary of State ambition. We also recognize the effort they have done. However, this is not enough. Minister, look at it as an opportunity, if you like, to prove that you are really interested in Evros and solve their problems. All Greeks hurt for Evros, either themselves, or their relatives and have connected their best years to serve their homeland, fulfilling their military service in Evros. We have to propose solutions, and it is clear that we have proposed them. However, we say that restoring the eighty-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, first-three-three-three-three-three-three. Mr President, because I am a fruit of a farm animal family, I know that in order to go to its fields, the impurities should have been restored from yesterday, because the impurities are also roads to access the property. Secondly, there must be protection of escalators and replacement of existing pumping stations with submarines of new technology - there are pumping stations, so-called new technology submarines - so that this problem does not exist. Right now, over three hundred pumping stations are out of operation, they are under water, only in the region of Orestiad and Twin wall. There must be consultation with Turkey and Bulgaria on a number of projects, such as fertilizer islands, cleaning them up and plating the bed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] It is appropriate to take into account the expertise, experience, structures and practices of dealing with similar problems from countries in Europe with care of the European Union. This story has to be over. We are at your disposal for further details. Mr President, on 25 January the Greek people judged the previous government and raised you as rulers. The Prefecture of Evros trusted you with three MPs. As you have repeatedly said, you have a fresh people's mandate. Please carry out this mandate with regard to Evros for the flooding, to prevent the zoonoses from being given early and fast, as possible, mocking and mysterious, which are bad bridges, that 12% of the wage bill has not been paid to professionals in Evros and that there is no clear plan to deal with unemployment, to promote tourism and modernise agricultural production. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is what the world of Evros, the "border guards" of Greece and Europe expects. He waits and demands respect and no excuses. Treat the land and fill the funds. Apply the programme for which you won the election, and we will very well support you. With my Evros colleagues, we sit at the same table and fight for our country. The River Evros with its main rivers is now an important water catchment area to the sea. The Prime Minister himself should lead a Task Force to tackle the problems of Evros immediately because of the strong national and symbolic advances in the region. It would also be advisable to invite his counterparts, if necessary, Bulgaria and Turkey, because not the President of the European Commission - who loves us - and with a helicopter, to make a landing flight in the tragic landscape. We understand the importance of the problems he has abroad and at least recommend that he follow his progress with Evros. This county should become an exemplary example for all of Greece. When someone enters Greece from the Gardens, understand, feels that he has entered Europe. We also call on the Ministers responsible for an enlarged interministerial system to pilot a methodology for dealing with special emergencies and critical incidents, such as those in Evros. Because if you are not now interested in Evros directly, I am sorry, but this is equivalent to abandoning or deceiving, most urgently, those who trusted you with their vote. Please think and act "Hebrew" and tactfully. If we suffer incurable damage to these beautiful historical regions, you know what the future of Hellenism will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u7	And we thank Mr. Prussakis. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u8	My dear colleague, it was unfortunate that you said "you deceived the Greek people". We have not even shut down two months of governance of the country, and you see that we are not just close and we are running to all the problems, but we are responding to what we are committed to. Indeed, it is our concern for the region, and that is why we have numerous visits and meetings, but at the same time also specific commitments. I do not want to tell you in detail how many ovine and caprine animals and how many beehives have been destroyed, when they will receive the compensation, etc. You can understand that it is not time for me to refer to this. Our agony is in Evros, Macedonia, the land that is being cultivated this year, because these phenomena actually give us a great deal of thought and delay in the growing season. But we will do our utmost to keep these rights and cultivate these lands. This is our great anxiety about the region. The question of water management in the region is indeed a huge problem. You know we don't close everything. In the past, efforts have been made to reach agreement with this country, which, while going to the negotiating table and discussing it, is perhaps felt by the pressure of the European Union, does not keep any of the things it commits itself to. So this is a huge issue. We will, in fact, make every effort and indeed that is where we will also call for the Prime Minister's participation so that these conditions can be created in order to reach agreement with the country concerned. However, this does not mean that we are dismissing what we have committed to the Greek people. I want to stay for a while on the subject of water management. You know that there is a Special Secretariat for Water, which works and works out high-risk management plans for the Evros basin and, more generally, I would say, an approach in the direction of finding a lasting solution. As you can see, and as we all do, if there is no transnational agreement in the three countries which are directly involved and in contact with everything that is going on in Evros, then unfortunately we will not be able to do anything about this permanent solution. One will carry the problem to another, and the situation will be the one we are experiencing today. I will give you more details on the compensation to be paid. But I would also like you and my fellow Members in general, especially these issues and, more generally, rural issues, to approach them with the knowledge of a very difficult reality to which we all need to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second question, under number 36/10-3-2015, of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Aitolakaranania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on direct and effective assistance to the flood victims in the region of Epirus and Ietolokarnania, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member and deleted. Next is the third with number 30/10-3-2015, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance, on the transfer of funds of the OPECE and the payment of agricultural aid. This timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have tabled this question on the transfer to the Bank of Greece of the available cash balances of OPEKEPE and the other agencies of your Ministry, such as ELGA and ELGA - DIMITRA, which you are seeking to follow soon. The reserves appear to be used as a spoil by the government against farmers, in its desperate attempt to find solutions to meet the public's cash requirements, instead of the payment of aid and compensation, with a constructed argument, that the money will receive higher interest. You've been trying to cover it with spasm and sloppy moves, instead of facing the rapid deterioration of the country's economic size since you took over its governance. The reality is, however, that when European money is taken over in Greece, the country loses money, because interest is paid back to the European Central Bank. As Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, you must not only protect Community subsidies and simple farmers, but also pay them in time. On the contrary, fifty-one thousand cotton producers last week were beaten to receive the special cotton aid, because while the payment statements at Piraeus Bank were sent to the Bank of Greece, the reserves intended for the payments of Community aid had been transferred to the Bank of Greece. And the cotton producers may have been paid - and I am glad that PASOK has contributed to this - as the question was tabled on 10 March and payments were made six days later, on 16 March, however, a sense of insecurity has been created in the rural world. After that, you ask: First, will the transfer of cash to the Bank of Greece affect the payment schedule of the beneficiary farmers? Secondly, when will agricultural aid be paid to beneficiaries pending? Thirdly, if the country's cash reserves are not improved, will this money be repaid to the OPEKEPE for the payment of the beneficiaries? And if so, how? Fourthly, does the Ministry intend to carry out similar transfers of cash and other bodies within its competence, such as ELGA? Can you tell us what the compensation payment programme is in a year of great damage to plant and animal production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u12	My dear colleague, you have been miserable twice as much as your question. You were first unhappy because you spoke about the misuse of OPEKEPE's cash and, secondly, about the delay - a little late - you 'false' now - the start of the payments for which we committed ourselves. I want to be clear. The change decided by the Government regarding the utilization of OPEKEPE's resources will have nothing to do with and nothing to do with the payment times of all aids for Greek farmers. On the contrary - and I will prove it to you - only benefits can be created, as cash assets have been guaranteed in a more efficient way, i.e. - to say it very simply - at a much higher rate than was the case so far. That is to say, to the benefit of the farmers. My dear colleague, the Community aid of the beneficiary producers is guaranteed. Payments are progressing unnecessarily and, of course, in accordance with national and Community legislation. You didn't do anything about reading the joint ministerial decision. I shall put it in the Minutes, so that my colleagues can take it and see what we have really decided. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned joint Ministerial Decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practices of the Parliament.]] What we are talking about in the joint ministerial decision amuses all concerns that have been raised on an issue that had a basic objective, how best to use the available resources. In fact, I would like to inform you - to be clear and to tell you outside the teeth - that the European Commission has been disturbing about this issue. From 2008 onwards, the specific amount related to the advance payment of the Rural Development Programme until October 2014 was ‘parked’ to a banking institution without payment of the minimum interest. From October until today, it had gone to 0.3% and very simply put it into a 2.3%-2.4% process. So you realize how much more efficient it will be, and it will be for other money too. We'll find it all on the way to see if the public's available serves public interests or serves other kinds of interests. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In this case, we in the FLAG - and you will see - say that: "if there is a need to use these funds for the payments of beneficiaries...." "which cannot be used..." - it is wrong to inform you - "beyond the Rural Development Programme for other payments". For the Rural Development Programme, this amount as an advance was following the course of the Rural Development Programme and only after its completion and once the entire amount could be absorbed, it could be used. If the entire amount is not used up, it will be repaid. You know what we have to deal with when in the Rural Development Programme today, absorption is only 63% and we are fighting - we fought the Council of Agriculture the other day - to give us an extension so that we can absorb more than 1 billion that has not been used. It is not right, therefore, to invoke procedures that do not correspond to the reality. In fact, I will also say to you what is said within the CRL that under Regulation 1290/2005 the amount of pre-financing paid to the Member State - a Member State - for the Rural Development Programme is cleared, as I have said before, after the end of the completion of this programme. There is therefore no restriction. We are now giving a great battle on this issue, and you have been across the street, spreading that "go the money of the rural area!" In fact, you said a moment ago, "Thanks to the effort of PASOK...". Listen, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday PASOK issued a communication accusing us of delaying one day, two days to pay for the aid." And the next day they were paid. To pay for the aid, my dear colleague, there is a whole process. We and the sums were scheduled and the procedures were implemented so that as soon as theok was given, the farmers went the next day and gradually started to pay. I will tell you in my denture about the further process, because there are too many issues, for you and the Greek people to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u14	Minister, I listened carefully. Until now, early payments have helped to create a climate of trust between the Ministry and farmers. So why are you shooting the good past? Instead of these practices one would expect you to have lifted the sleeves and found ways to reduce production costs, which you did not mention, you did not say anything, to take initiatives to strengthen the producer group, to make use of renewable energy sources and flexible financial instruments. One would expect you to pay the payments, the payment of the compensation for 2014 and what remains from 2013. One would have expected you to have notified the exact timetable for the payments of organic producers, the quality retention of wheat, olive oil, beef and veal, which are about a hundred and fifty thousand producers. Your attitude to the agricultural world, however, and the way in which you understand the development of the primary sector, has been seen from the day of your programme statements, when you did not find anything positive about the new period of the Common Agricultural Policy, which has to do with a 20 billion euro financial programme. Minister, your nonexistent plan, the ambiguity that characterises all your government choices, which in no case is creative, has destroyed a national strategy. "First time on the left" you said and would expect the government to continue negotiating on the substance, claiming issues rather than playing communal games. The negotiations were replaced by the walkers in the Brussels courtyards to feed some of their egos. The country has lost the chance to get out of the memorandum, to go to the preventive credit line, to transform the IMF programme into a preventive one, to gradually exit the country and protect the markets. In their place you chose the country's stay in the memorandum, without even bringing forward the extension of the main financial facility contract to the House for approval, something unprecedented. With your moves, by underestimating the European partners and by considering the other European peoples porcupines you are leading Greece to Europe's margin. Minister, I come from the Aetolokarana prefecture and a month ago I saw the great floods destroying wholeheartedly important parts of farmland, livestock and agricultural infrastructure. Can you understand the insecurity of these people when their troubles are at all times in danger of becoming an intrusion of a natural phenomenon? Can you understand what further uncertainty you lead to with your choices? What do you answer all these farmers who are concerned about when the transfer of cash to the Bank of Greece will cause delays in their payments? What is the final schedule for payments? You didn't tell us. What is the plan, after all, of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction - you have not told us, even briefly - about the productive reconstruction of our place? We're waiting for your initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u16	Dear colleague, you have spoken of a good past. I did not want to parade up until now, but you force me to tell you that the first day I went to the Ministry of Rural Development I found two files in front of me. One envelope had 1.25 bn. In addition to the obligation to sign the first instalment of EUR 215 million from the budget, EUR 215 million from the State General Accounting Office - it has been left, paid - and even another EUR 1.3 billion has been paid. The euro is charged against management and payment which even reaches the point of obliging us as a ministry to seek them individually from farmers. That's what happened in the past. I don't want to say any more. As to whether we are leading Greece to Europe's margin, I would like to tell you what I have experienced. The day before yesterday, when I went to the Council of Ministers for Agricultural Policy, I found out quite a different approach, for the simple reason that, when you tell them and really your views, your positions are documented and, above all, they serve the basic aim, which is to see how the rural area within the European Union will take the place that it needs, you guarantee alliances. I would like to inform you that there have been too many alliances - which the time does not allow us to mention here - which we have not even thought there will be, both on the issues of feta and on the issues of the Rural Development Programme and on the issues of simplification, flexibility in the management of the new CAP. We can't afford time to mention it. So because what we are doing left open - if we are paying and how we are paying - I have to tell you and assure you of what I said before and which is repeated. From Tuesday, then, we started payments on a quarterly horizon until the end of May. On Tuesday, forty-six thousand eight hundred cotton producers were credited to the sum of EUR 177 million for the special cotton aid. The single payment to twenty-three thousand five hundred beneficiaries of EUR 16,800,000 has also been credited. That's what happened these days. Other amounts will be followed by the end of March, covering outstanding amounts of earlier aid. We have loose ends of 2010, 2011, 2012. You know that. That is what we are going to start slowly - slowly to satisfy them. In the first fortnight of April we will pay the next amount due for the single payment for 2014, we will see what will happen in the same period or ten, fifteen days later for the aid of the special schemes for the islands concerned. Of course, a similar payment, I would say, will be made by the end of May of all direct payments, at least by 2012. To be clean and honest it's what we found in front of us. As far as the compensation is concerned, the payment of the 2014 liquidation will be completed by the end of May. There are other issues relating to agri-environmental measures, the completion of the information system. All this is going into a quarterly procedure, as I told you. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to lower the tons, we all owe it and wish to support the rural area. We start by placing as a basis what has been done so far, it has been done. The question is what we can do in this bad reality. I do not think any of you doubt that the problems are huge and that the area has suffered not only a loss of income in recent years, but mainly a loss of jobs. The rural world has ceased to be involved in rural activity, which, as we have said before, is the number one instrument to serve the country's productive reconstruction, because it is based on the comparative advantages that our country has. Ladies and gentlemen, you know now that there is a debate in the Council of Ministers and now understand that feta is the geographical indication product to be made a flag of geographical indication for the European Union. So we will fight them and want your help too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed here. Let me read you a request, which is from Mr Kostis Hatzidakis' side. The request is: ‘Because of the political memorial in the memory of Tassos Mitsopoulos, former Minister of Defence, to be held in Larnaca and to which I will be speaking, I request permission from the Greek Parliament to abstain from 20 March 2015 until 21 March 2015. With appreciation, Kostis Hadjidakis". Does this House approve the requested permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u18	The House approved the requested permission. We shall be adjourning our meeting here, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Rule 59(3) of the Rules of Procedure and on the twelveth November we shall continue with the agenda for legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for being late. The reason was that we completed the procedure for the election of a Bureau in the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law: 'Agreements on the relaunching of the economy'. The above bill was identified by the government as urgent, in accordance with Article 76(4) of the Constitution. The Parliament's Committees of Permanent Economic Affairs and Social Affairs have accepted the designation of this bill as urgent and have dealt with and examined it, as laid down in Rule 109(2) of the Rules of Procedure. They submitted their report on 19-3-2015, as set out in paragraph 3 of the above Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Immediately after the bill was entered on the agenda, as provided for in Rule 52(1) of the Rules of Procedure and by way of derogation from Rule 91(7). I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in accordance with Rule 109(4) and (6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the debate and vote of the urgent drafts will be concluded at a maximum of ten hours. At the beginning of the sitting, the House may, on a proposal from its President, determine the time allocated to the first and second readings. If, for any reason, a Parliament decision is not taken on this matter, it is available four hours for the first and six hours for the oral debate. Apart from the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and one of their representatives are involved in the first and second debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u21	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u22	I haven't finished yet, Mr. Georgiadis. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, I would suggest that we discuss the bill in principle and on the articles of the Single Act in order to give the rapporteurs, special speakers and MPs time to be placed on the bill. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that two speakers from SYRIZA, two speakers from some from New Democracy, one speaker appointed by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, one speaker appointed by the Potami, one speaker appointed by the Communist Party of Greece, one speaker appointed by the Independent Greeks and one speaker appointed by the PASOK. I propose that speaking times be formulated as follows, ladies and gentlemen: the rapporteurs and special speakers should have 15 minutes of speaking time. The minister in charge nine minutes. Co-responsible Ministers nine minutes. The Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, ten minutes. The Presidents of the other groups for seven and a half minutes. Parliamentary Representatives for six minutes. The speakers appointed by the parties six minutes. The seconds shall be defined in half of the above-mentioned speech years, except in the years of the rapporteurs, specialist speakers and speakers, who will not have the right to secondary education, as they have been given an increased degree of prototype time. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u23	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u25	What do you want, Mr. Kutsuko? Why don't you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u27	Here, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, first of all I would like to raise the matter of urgency in plenary. The President of Parliament, who is not here today, was committed in her opening speech that this procedure will never be followed in her days. However, the first almost draft law of the SYRIZA Government has this procedure which the President was committed not to follow. In any case, Mr President, the New Democracy - to see that we are different from you, where during the previous government you would never accept anything to be discussed under the urgency procedure - that the tax articles may be of this nature because of the issues that we analysed within the committee. But, Mr President, this draft contains a number of articles entirely unrelated to the tax issues, which have no urgency and which absolutely need to be withdrawn. I am referring above all to Article 24. Article 24, as we analysed yesterday in committee and as, unfortunately, the Minister did not substantiate because it is urgent, must be withdrawn from this draft law. If Article 24 is not withdrawn, there is a risk that the majority who will vote for it will have committed a huge mistake and taken to its backs a huge harm to the public. The Minister tried to have a good time at night with a legislative improvement, which does things, Mr President - you are even legal - even worse. What did the Minister propose? He proposed that the House vote that the House by law should order the court to postpone if the Greek State does not have time to appoint a liquidator to the company "Order Front". If ever, in the rule of law of Western civilization, the executive will order a court of appeal or not to postpone! It's obviously unconstitutional. Since, therefore, the Minister - and honouring her - recognised the risk of suffering the public's damage, and since Article 24 has at no point established why the urgent procedure is needed, we ask that Article 24 should be withdrawn from the debate on this draft law. Bring it into a subsequent bill with the normal procedure, call on the committee and mayors, call on the workers, call the legal advisers, make the trial on time without any risk, such as the one the Minister recognized and does not have any shadows in our Parliament. I would like to add something more, Mr President, by closing down. We say this now, because we want the SYRIZA Members to be informed and not to have them high school, as they did to us during the previous summit. The New Democracy will submit a request for a roll-call vote for Articles 16, 17, 21 and 24. I repeat that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will table a request for a roll-call vote on Articles 16 and 17, because these articles run counter to the agreement of 20 February of the Eurogroup and yesterday's statement by the Prime Minister. I would remind you that yesterday the Prime Minister promised that he would implement the agreement of 20 February. Within this agreement, he pledged to strengthen the General Secretariat of Revenue and the Independent Tax Administration. These two articles are in an absolutely opposite direction. They strengthen the Minister and reduce the Independent Tax Administration and the General Secretariat for Income. In other words, they are in complete contrast with the agreement of 20 February, which, just in the morning hours, was presented by the Prime Minister as his success and pledged to follow it again. So these two articles will be put to a roll-call vote. We will also table a request for a roll-call vote on Article 21, which concerns the 26% ranch in an unprecedented way for a Western world country, but of course also for Article 24 on the 'State Front' and for all that I have said before. I therefore ask the Minister if he intends to withdraw Article 24 specifically from the beginning, so that we do not waste time. Let our SYRIZA colleagues know that we will call for a roll-call vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. On the issue of roll-call voting it is your right. On the question of Article 24, the government will answer you. I would like to say to you on the urgent matter that it has come to plenary in characterized by the workings of the Standing Committees. The Rules of Procedure and the Constitution have been respected. That's how he came to the House. That's how it's introduced to plenary. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I disagreed yesterday with the Committee on urgent procedure for the first time, recalling the statements made by the President of the Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, which I do not know whether she is absent by accident or to avoid putting it on the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u31	He will preside over the majors later, Mr. Kutsuko. Please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u32	She'll come and tell us herself. Do not apologise for Mrs Constantopoulos. I have also explained that the provisions on due date are similar to those in force, Mr President: until 31 March the previous government regulation, which some people do not know is the law of the state, and we voted for another regulation, the 'blue of opportunity' yesterday. So it is not urgent. In any case, if the government - since yesterday's debate was held, and today it is the House - is insisting that we do not show the same negativity as the opposition to discuss it. But is the triangular trade regulation urgent, which, as I will prove, if the government does not withdraw it, does not simply annul what he has denounced us that we have given the oil trading companies 1.2 billion, but is, in fact, abduction of sins? And is there any urgency about the arrangement on the "Maritime Front" and the "Public Property Company", which, although corrected after the intervention of the SYRIZA colleagues, in consultation with the Government, was shown in yesterday's debate in the committee to be suspicious, since the Secretary-General of the Government is involved in a judicial dispute between SYRIZA in a court dispute between SYRIZA's "SYRIZA's Coast Front" with investors the great interests of which SYRIZA was bailing on?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u33	Explanations were given. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u34	So we suggest that the two articles be withdrawn, 21 and 24. They have nothing to do with the urgency of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u35	All right, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr Pafilis from the Communist Party has the floor. I would ask you to be a little short, Mr Paphie. That applies to everyone, to complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u36	I'm not gonna make a more general reason. I'll speak in particular. First of all, we wish the government well for it. Now, if you were otherwise here, it would have been a parliamentary coup d'état, you would say that the House is being abolished, and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u37	Where's Mr. Lafazanis telling us this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u38	Secondly, it goes too far for the rest of the previous government to raise urgent matters when all of them had been brought as an emergency. It just repeats what we have lived and where we live, with different roles. They are denounced by those who have brought the urgent matter and by those who have denounced the urgent procedure. Why do we say that? This bill has been proclaimed on the day following the oath of the members of the government, Mr President. Yes or no? All the relevant ministers had announced it. It's been a month and a half. So why would they be urgent? Why did he spend a month and a half after they had it ready? What is urgent and cannot be discussed by a normal and normal procedure beyond the issues of the TDID and the 'Maritime Front', which are indeed serious and for which we have been placed? We therefore do not agree with the urgency. And we are very afraid - and I say it again - that the good day since this morning seems!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u39	As a legal person, I will reply to you, because I share all the views which have been expressed - they are all right, despite the fact that they were not all on the point of order - that I fear that we, the House, have no opportunity to question what you have said and in one respect also has a right approach, but came designated by the committees responsible for this, to discuss this. In other words, the procedure of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution has been followed, despite any justified objections. Several of you here are more experienced than I am, and I think you'll agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u40	This is the trick, Mr President. It's the committee's decision. So who? The government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I have asked for the floor for some time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u43	All right, Mrs. Liberty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u44	We have asked for the floor beforehand, Mr President. Let the turn be observed sometimes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u45	Here you go, Mrs. Liberaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u46	I would like to say that we do not question the fact that the bill came under normal urgency and went to committee. We had, of course, supported the committee, conscious of the fact that there is an emergency element, that an interim solution could be found by means of the urgency procedure, so that all the duration of the normal procedure and the speeding up of the deadlines of one week is not yet available. However, given that it has come under the urgency procedure, I do not want to argue on the exclusion of Articles 21 and 24, which have already been heard. I would like to say, however, that we from Potami have something to add to the articles which have not been urgent and certainly have to be debated in a comfortable manner in Article 31 which substantially changes the concept of public limited companies, that is, the concept of the responsibility and the mutual responsibility of shareholders in public limited companies. It is a great pity in panic to take measures that are more permanent and almost structural in nature for the economy and not to put them aside, passing through the rapid processes the rest that have an urgent character. Article 31 should be excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u47	You'll develop them, Mrs. Lyberaki. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. You said that it was an inalienable right for the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to request a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u49	I said right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u50	Right, at least. The right that the Golden Dawn does not have, even though it has the required number of Members. Previously, the New Democracy gave a great performance with other parties, in order that the request for the Golden Dawn will not be accepted, because very simply a prosecutor of prisons does not give the right to elected Members of the Greek Parliament for the third consecutive time to attend serious plenary sessions. We are informing the House - although it is not very much to you, from what we have understood in general, but the Greek people also hear - that the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Papa, was given permission yesterday to attend the Conference of Presidents, but forbidden to go to the Committee on Economic Affairs, where he should be present, two rooms adjacent to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u51	What excuse?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u52	No excuse, Mr. Tasoula. There is absolutely no reason, Mr Tasoula, if that pleases you. We'll send you after the D.A.'s report. The same prosecutor who said that the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative could be in the Conference of Presidents, the same prosecutor did not allow him to go, while he was here, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where a very serious issue was being discussed, and what we are talking about today in plenary. That's what this House's information is about. Secondly, for the point that has been made before about specific articles that do not mean urgency, although if they do not have the sense of urgency, there is no reason to come to a bill which has come anyway late. That's right. Comrade Palis put it. You've had a month and a half. You could have started it in order to come through proper procedures and not be inconsistent with your announcements of election and post-election. So some articles, which do not have the character of urgency, could not be in this bill, so that there are no rewards. Because it is the 100 doses that millions of fellow citizens, professionals, individuals, craftsmen and others are affected and certainly do not want in this bill - which most people seem to agree - to pass other articles, which should not be in this bill for some reason. On the other hand, we do not know the reason why some specific articles on the "State Front". Perhaps in an indirect or direct way they have interests. We will be in plenary later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u53	You've heard, Mr. Panayotare. Mr Athanasios Petrakos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that colleagues also wanted the objections raised in committee to be recorded in plenary. We have responded to the committee. So, today, in plenary, the urgency of the matter lies in helping to relieve natural persons and small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been dismantled by the policies implemented in the past five years. From the huge overtaxation, and they are unable to pay their obligations. That is why we are moving forward in the arrangements for taxes, municipalities and insurance funds, with the aim of alleviating - I repeat - natural persons, small and medium-sized enterprises and raising money for public funds. So this is the urgency of this case. That is what my colleagues are aware of, because the positive opinion on these regulations also comes from all the operators involved in trade and the craft industry. I therefore believe that the debate has been concluded. We need to start the process, so that we can start the debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Petrako. Mr. Kocket has the floor from the ANELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. As you have rightly said, as you have rightly said, by the Standing Committees under the urgency procedure, there is nothing to say about withdrawal of provisions. It's clear for communication. We Independent Greeks are interested in the substance of the case. And the substance of the bill is the hundred doses. I would ask you very much to proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u57	Can we move on, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u59	No, you don't have the right. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: From the Golden Dawn, a special speaker is appointed by MP Argolidos Georgios Galeos and a parliamentary representative by MP II of Athens Mr.Ilias Panayotaros. Mr Artemios Matthiopoulos is appointed as the speaker. The President of the "Potami" Parliamentary Group knows that the Member of Parliament, Mr. Antigone Lyberakis, and Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, is appointed as the special speaker. Also, with the signature of Mr Panagiotis Kartsoulis, a speaker is appointed as the Member, Mrs Catherine Marcos. The Communist Party of Greece is appointed as the speaker, Mr Katsotis Christos. Also, with the signature of the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Pafilis Athanasios, as a special speaker, is the Member of Parliament, Mr Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos and Mr Pafilis Athanasios as a parliamentary representative. Nikos Nikolopoulos from the ANELs informs us that the rapporteur is appointed as MP Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Parliamentary spokesperson, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis and Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos. As a special speaker, PASOK is appointed the MP, Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos, as a parliamentary representative, Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis and as a speaker, Odysseus Konstantinopoulos. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has informed us that as speakers, Mr Despina Charalabidou and Mr Balaouras Geramis are appointed as parliamentarians. From New Democracy, signed by Mr. Ioannis Placiotakis, we were told that speakers are called by MPs, Mr. Ioannis Vroutsis and Mr. Makis (Mavroudis) Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur for the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Efstathos Giannakides, has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, won't the government answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u62	...unless the Minister wants to give some answers, to make some improvement or, of course, to make some clarification on the objections of the parliamentary representatives and those who have spoken. Madam Minister, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u63	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u64	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u65	I wanted to say that I never expected that in this Chamber I would be able to agree with Mr Georgiadis, even half of it, but everything is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u66	It's all happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u67	Indeed, Mr Georgiadis is right about the way in which the legislative improvement was written in Article 24, after he told us all these terrible things. Of course, there was no recognition, as Mr Koutsoukos said, of'substantiated transactions'. What happened is that when they say "elephant", it's usually a little hard to invoke a mirror that shows something different. Indeed, on the one hand, with two sentences, the legal improvement must go away from the first sentence, because it can indeed be interpreted as giving orders to the judicial authority to postpone the proceedings if a liquidator has not been appointed. And I say 'the men', because there is no trial. As Mr. Georgiadis said, we thought there was a trial. There is a whole series of different kinds, of course, which will become normal until they are finished. It doesn't have to be legislated. What is the main task of each public official, whether he is Minister, or a member of the government, is to defend the public interest. That is what we are committed not only morally but also legally. I would remind you that some of the people who were in this room left with rockets for such stories. We are therefore, both from a moral point of view and from a legal point of view and in terms of a commitment to sound and formal, obliged to defend to the end, in any case, the public interest and that is what we will do. I can read to you the legislative improvement that is a little Chinese, as you will now be shared and read to you what remains next, so we can understand in just Greek. Legislative improvement: Delete the sentence added at the end of paragraph 1, of Article 24 of the draft law from ‘the pending at the time of the company's resolution...’ to ‘... from the Clearer’. In the next sentence, the word ‘extensions’ between the word ‘equals’ and the word ‘equals’ is added in its final version and also the word ‘the coastal front of S.A.’ is added after the word ‘equals’. In other words, the first of the two proposals is deleted, which reads: "The proceedings pending at the time of the company's resolution are to be postponed, if they have been determined before the liquidator's appointment and continue until the liquidator's finality". This is where we obviously meant - we did not order a postponement of justice - that the person representing the public, if he has not been able, to have been appointed as a liquidator in any of the cases that are scheduled. Otherwise, it is clear from the law that the legal representation and the defence of the public interest has the clearer. And the words "with the ministerial decision referred to in the following paragraph, the legal representation of the company is defined and the necessary resources are provided for the execution of its outstanding company "Save Front S.A.". Secondly, there is a legislative improvement in Article 1(4), where it says that the debts to the municipalities are also being regulated by a hundred instalments. The most precise wording - it will also be shared - I expect it to be brought - is: '... or the conversion of land into money of the incoming or already integrated property'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u68	These are the two legislative improvements that will be shared in any moment. In my opinion, this is the way Article 24 is quite clear about its content. I also wanted to do - and I am ending this, Mr President - a clarification of Article 21 in relation to triangular transactions. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 in order to ensure that the competent authorities of the Member States are informed of the progress It will address the control provided for, as will the information with which the taxpayer can demonstrate the legality of the transaction and provide that in cases in which the legality of the transaction is established, direct exemption from the obligation to pay the extra tax will be granted. In other words, when it is clear that you are not an elephant, you would not have to make an advance of 26% to recognize this at some point. There will be in detail the criteria on which those who obviously have normal and not triangular transactions will not have to make a deposit. The rest of us, that is, those who, from the file that will be bearing a problem, or that there is a gray zone, will pay 26% in advance and check and complete the check within the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u71	On what subject, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u72	On what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u73	No, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, do not ruin the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Georgiadis, please. All other parliamentary representatives will be asked to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, this is an extremely serious matter. I need a minute. I don't want any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u77	Here you go, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u78	Madam Minister, this is the third change you have been making since yesterday in Article 24! The third change!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u79	That's the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u80	Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u81	Don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u82	We're not talking about mere legislative improvements here. We are talking about the third change on the substance of an article. We have asked you and asked you from yesterday: What is the urgent reason to vote on this procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u83	We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u84	Nothing has been said about the emergency. It has not been said, Mr President, a single word about why it is being raped. [[Let the pages in. 72a and 72b]] I'm actually going. I read, ladies and gentlemen, from the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, in this case, that the issues on which this legislative authorisation is granted for Article 24 should be specified, even in general, in the proposed provision, in order to exclude the competent ministers from their specific regulation or regulation of issues of a detailed nature.' In other words, here you are told that, as this article is written, it will create a number of legal problems. Madam Minister, I really say this to you in good faith, I have no doubt at all about your moral formation, nor against an antenna. I'll make it clear. However, I would like the Minister responsible to explain the following: first of all, I should like to correct. It's not much of a trial, Minister. If we had the normal procedure, Mr Mitatakis, who was the Minister responsible for the previous government, would explain what he had explained to us. All other trials are minor. They're trials dealing with residents' appeals, etc. There is a specific trial, on April 28, that has a huge public interest behind it. It is about the dispute between a large company, the "Attiki Sun", and the Greek State. You say - listen to what you said now - that you will request a postponement in court. You'll ask for a postponement! In other words, if the court fails to give the order, and you have not appointed a liquidator - because you will not be able to appoint him until then - then the Greek public will lose the trial and a businessman will win. Maybe he's right. I'm not saying that the businessman is wrong. That's what the court will judge. However, the businessman will win, because the Greek State will have remained unrepresented because you have voted for Article 24. So I've been asking you since yesterday and you haven't answered me. I'll repeat my question. I didn't say anything about the suspect. I'll make it clear. I do not question your moral formation, your or any Member of Parliament. But I ask you: What is the reason why we need to discuss and vote for this article in the urgent procedure when you yourself have changed it three times when Parliament's legislative service tells us that it is wrongly written when you have not explained why you are in a hurry? What would you mind, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, coming to a next bill to invite legal representatives, workers, mayors, and in a month to have voted and gone further? I don't think you're afraid you won't be in a month's government! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] What's the point, Minister? We ask you, we demand it, we make it clear: we want you to withdraw Article 24, because otherwise you can find yourself without wanting to do so, without questioning your moral integrity, in a huge harm to the Greek public. Then, in the normal procedure, if it doesn't retire, which I hope will be withdrawn, we'll give you the documents to see and believe them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u85	You have heard, Mr Georgiadis, that the government will take it into account. Mr. Petrako, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u86	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u88	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u89	Remove it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u90	Of course, we won't withdraw it. It is very simple why we are urgent. You said: 'What prevents you from following this procedure? In one month you can have it voted on." We in a month, if possible - I do not know if we will - want to have the new fund, then we do not want to vote on the new fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u91	All together in a law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u92	What you're saying is worse. Bring it into a law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Georgiadis, the Minister answered. Mr Giannakides Efstathos, the rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, you have to tell us what time it is to close and vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u95	I will now announce it, Mr President. The roll-call vote will take place today. It's going to take place between 8 and 10 a.m. That is what I shall suggest to the Bureau. So that my colleagues should know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u96	Why don't you tell me exactly what time it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u97	Because there might be relocation, Mrs Bakoyannis. There will be a debate with the requests made by your parliamentary representative. I would like to know, since I was raised by your own Members, that it is going to happen today. It cannot be done otherwise because of the nature of the debate and it will take place when I have proposed to you. That's what I'm gonna suggest. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote of Members of the New Republic on Articles 16, 17, 21 and 24 of the draft ‘Adjustments for the reopening of the economy’, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u98	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the regulation for its submission. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mr. Georgiadis Spyridon - Adonis. Here you go. Mr. Plackotakis John. Here you go. Mr. Voridis Mavroudis. Here you go. Mr. Brutsis John. Here you go. Mr. Yakoumatos Grassos. Here you go. Mr. Giannakis Stergios. Here you go. Mr. Tasoulas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Koukodimos Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Buras Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Davakis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Charalambos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. You're all here. You've made sure you're here. There is therefore a lack of further reading. Mr. Giannakides, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. The worsening crisis in recent years, the continuing decline in wages and incomes and the eruption of unemployment have led to a real weakness on the part of citizens and businesses in response to all their tax obligations and, as a result, the accumulation of uncertainly confirmed debts by the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u101	Solving the issue of overdue debts is therefore part of a politically necessary and unsuccessful deferral, which aims to try to restore the country and the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u102	We are not listening, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u103	Those of you who leave, please, so that my colleague can be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u104	The proposed regulation relates to late payments until 1 March and provides for a phased exemption from surcharges and late payment interest of up to 100%. The number of doses may be up to a per cent and a minimum monthly dose of EUR 20 is set. The provisions of this Chapter shall also apply to all debts secured up to 25-5-2015 to OTAs (a) and (b). We therefore intend to release a large number of citizens and businesses from their hard debts, while at the same time seeking to strengthen state revenues immediately. It is noted that over three and a half million natural persons and businesses have arrears of less than 5,000 euros. In view of this reality, therefore, the bill provides that basic debts up to EUR 5,000 will not be charged by surcharges and late payment interest after they have been regulated, while the annual debt burden is 3%. In addition, debtors are given the opportunity to regulate a number of other debts, such as those that are suspended or those that have already been subject to an existing adjustment programme. The same applies to debts relating to earlier tax periods up to 31 December 2014. Even until 26 May, they may be subject to the scheme of certified debts, which have not been ordered at first instance. The relevant provisions, which are specified in Articles 3 and 4, make it clear that in relation to the above-mentioned projects in this bill we have tried to reduce the prerequisites as much as possible in order to join it and to benefit from its forecasts the highest possible number of debtors. Articles 5 to 7 shall define technical issues such as the manner and time limit for the submission of the application, which shall expire on 26 May and shall provide for the possibility of extending it to up to one month. In addition, the way in which the instalments are paid is specified, and in particular the first instalment shall be paid within three working days from the date of the application, and the following up to the last working day of the following months. If the debtor fails to pay two consecutive instalments during the first eight months or three consecutive instalments over the next period, the arrangement shall be lost, and the same shall be the case if he fails to submit the intended declarations of income tax and VAT. The specific provisions of Article 8 are much more favourable to the debtor than to the previous framework. This is done in order to be able to remain in regulation over time and to benefit from it the highest possible number of debtors. In the same logic, additional incentives are provided, such as the possibility of early repayment of debts at any stage of the arrangement, at the same time exempt from such increments. In addition, the debtor may, during the setting, choose to subject it to another schedule with a different number of doses for the remainder of the amount. In any case, however, the total dose number may not exceed one percent. Submission and, above all, compliance with the regulations of the current bill entails a number of benefits for the debtor, such as the provision of evidence of information and the lifting of seizures imposed on the hands of third parties. We are thus coming to streamline the relevant framework, as to date the debtor had to pay far greater amounts of 50% or even 100%. We are taking into account the conditions of the economic crisis in the world of work and the need for greater liquidity in the economy. Article 12 lays down the rights which the public may maintain to the debtor if the debt is not insured. It is also provided for the possibility of offsetting the debtor's financial claims against the State, a procedure which is further specified in Article 13. Article 14 also stipulates that, during the course of the adjustment programme, any limitation of the debts in question shall be suspended. An important point in the bill is the discount offered to the debtor if he advances a substantial amount, which is at least ten times the minimum instalment. In this case, an equal exemption is granted for the total increases and late payment interest of the selected programme. This allows debtors to benefit significantly from the programme while, at the same time, public revenues are expected to be significantly and directly stimulated. That is why a deadline is set for use of this provision up to 27 April. Furthermore, this draft law attempts to elect the existing framework of fines, as so far the fact of reflections between them had been ignored. In particular, Articles 18 and 19 seek to avoid excessive burdens on the debtor at the same time and with a fine and a late payment interest. Thus, the infringement of the principle of proportionality is terminated, while avoiding the burden of the portfolio of late payment with super-priced fines. At the same time, the burden for late payments of less than EUR 50 000 is being abolished, and more favourable conditions are provided for debts of up to EUR 150,000. The framework is therefore established not only for the protection of microprocessors but also for the immediate termination of prosecutions against them. The previous regime, which led to the personalisation and humiliation of our fellow citizens for the sums of EUR 2 000 and 3 000, is something that had to be stopped for some time now. Today the government is coming to put an end to this situation. The provisions of Article 21 are designed to put an end to triangular transactions. The Government remains consistent in its commitment to combating tax evasion, beginning with the unlawful activities of major infringement firms. At the same time, care is taken in favour of the weakest social strata, as a more favourable way of taxing imputable income for taxable persons without income, and provision is made for the abolition of the minimum annual objective expenditure in the event of the acquisition of income only on interest and property. In addition, a number of provisions of the VAT Code are amended in the direction of creating a fairer tax framework. It is trying to deal with issues that arise for a number of debtors, such as farmers of normal status, concerning the complexity and unclearness of the present regime. Article 23 extends until the end of the year the list of successful candidates for the competition of the Legal Board of State. This prevents a new time-consuming and costly procedure that would mean a new competition, and ensures the possibility of hiring undetermined successors in order to meet immediate operational needs, as dictated by the principles of equality, dignity and good administration. Article 24 provides for the abolition of the ‘Atlantic Coastal Front S.A.’ and the absorption of the ‘Public Property Company’ by a new public property management body to be set up. The real estate of the "State Coastal Front S.A." will be absorbed by the new vehicle, which will have the objective of exploiting the public property for the benefit and in the interest of the public interest, as the revenues generated will be used mainly to finance the social policy of the State and to support social security, while the decisions of the Finance and Economy Ministers, Infrastructures, Shipping and Tourism will deal with matters of staff, resolution and liquidation. The provisions of Article 25 of the draft law attempt to strengthen the work of the ILO with the local ILO, while strengthening the role of the Special Secretariat of the ILO. Strengthening the control and tax authorities, their better coordination and the removal of bureaucratic obstacles are moving not only towards strengthening public revenue but also towards a fairer and more targeted functioning of the relevant mechanism. The same applies to provisions of Article 26, which seek to redress the offences caused to the detriment of well-founded taxpayers who have agreed to be subject to judicial compromises. Article 27 of this draft law also regulates a number of important issues relating to the definition of the Habitats' Limitation, as well as its protection against expansional activities of individuals. The concept of urgency is justified by the current suffocating time periods for its determination, as it is necessary to protect the rights of the public. The second chapter of the draft law concentrates the government's first moves in order to address the extremely serious issue of accumulated liabilities and to ensure that they are gradually paid back. Reinforcing the incomes of the insurance funds is one of the main parameters of this draft law, which, beyond the collecting piece, also takes care to ensure the smooth operation of enterprises, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, the maintenance of professionals and self-employed persons, as well as the restoration of the real climate of the economy and its resumption. In particular, arrears of debts to the social security institutions are set, excluding NAT by 1 February 2015, and the deadline is set until the end of April. The framework of the arrangement provides for more favourable conditions for the repayment of insurance debts by means of a one-off payment, either as fifty instalments or as a hundred instalments. Depending on the method chosen, a discount is granted on increases, delay fees and other charges of 100%, in the case of one-off payments, 75% to fifty instalments and 50% to one-and-a-half instalments. The payment rate is set at 3% per annum for debts greater than 5,000 euros, and one instalment delay per 12 months is forgiven. For debts of less than EUR 5,000 there is no annual increase to facilitate the small-professionals affected by the crisis. This measure concerns about ninety thousand people insured. A prerequisite for joining the arrangement is the payment of current contributions from 1-2-2015 and may participate in it in debtors already subject to other arrangements. Those who proved to have had no income in 2014 are also protected, with the suspension of prerogatives and persecution for 12 months and with the possibility of joining the arrangement until 31-3-2016. So those who in the crisis have lost their ability to meet their insurance obligations are also protected. Finally, there are even more favourable conditions for legal persons governed by public law, for legal persons governed by private law, public and private law, pursuing public and other public objectives, as well as for associations of agricultural cooperatives, with the possibility of paying up up to a hundred and fifty instalments, with a 50% discount. The aim is to stop the gradual exit of debtors from the arrangements to which they are subject and to maintain the active economy of enterprises and professionals. At the same time, the revenues of the social security institutions are increasing, since people who have not been able to cope with their obligations can enter into favourable arrangements for them. In addition, by the end of 2016, the possibility of those insured to choose a lower insurance category in the AIFM is extended to temporarily reduce the amount of their insurance contributions payable. They are also able to claim that they are subject to up to three categories, which are lower than the two of the previous law. This extends the possibility for free professionals affected by the crisis to be able to continue to cover their insurance obligations which are now lower. The provisions of Article 30 shall cease to apply to penalties in cases of non-payment and reimbursement of individual contributions to the AIFM and the EFF. Article 31 covers the gap created by n. 4223/2013 on the mutual responsibility of the administrators to legal persons and legal entities for the payment of their insurance contributions. This law had only laid down liability for tax obligations, and this draft law explicitly establishes liability for insurance contributions as well. Article 32 essentially solves the question of delays in the recovery of claims by social security institutions resulting from the judicial insults of their classification. Provision is made for the direct payment to the social security institutions of all claims classified as receivables, irrespective of their legal offense. If a final decision is subsequently adopted that annulss the recovery of those claims, they shall be repaid individually within two months. This strengthens the procedures for the collection of insurance contributions by having a positive impact on the sustainability of the social security system. Article 34 abolishes provisions providing for the resumption that overtime wages are subject to insurance contributions, limiting the imposition of contributions by the IKA only to final judgments and the visa of wages as overtime on the basis of extrajudicial or judicial compromises. Ladies and gentlemen, a new historic period for the country and Europe has begun. This new historic period began from Greece on 25 January, with the restoration of the country's governance of those who chose to target the vast majority of society and undermine the future of the new generation for the benefit of the few and economically powerful and truly responsible for the crisis. Despite any difficulties and blackmail, the new government stands up against the neoliberal deadlocks, promoting the interests of the affected parts of society. With today's bill - the second in order that is written in Greece and does not constitute a translation of abroad - there is another important step in our overall effort to reform the Greek economy and society. Step by step, race, bill will build together with the people another country without the passions of the past. And this vision of another society will not only keep it to ourselves, but we will share it with all the citizens of Europe to bring a definitive end to the age of austerity and neoliberal deadlocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Giannakides. Mr Apostolos Vésyropoulos, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the Officerial Representation and expressing the New Democracy's positions on this bill, I made it clear yesterday that we are not going to operate in the logic of a sterile refusal. We are not going to adopt the logic of SYRIZA, which, six months ago, refused to support the corresponding settlement of late payment brought and voted for by the Samara government. The government is at a limit point. It's the end of illusions for all those who believed in them. The financial needs of the country are not covered by ideologies, extremism and communication. Reality has its own rules that no one can ignore and pass. The government is faced with this reality, faced with a truth that avoided seeing and confronting. No one's wishing, no one wants the ruthless. The Civic Opposition is here to support an honest and beneficial agreement with the partners, which will ensure our European path. This period of uncertainty and insecurity which its consequences are visible to society and especially to the economy must be brought to an end. Greece cannot be isolated, led to slow or sudden death. It's time for your government to realize it. No one disputes the mandate given to you by the people, but also the democratic legitimacy of the government. This mandate does not, however, include the break, the isolation of the country and the exit from the Eurozone. Cash is exhausted. The problem is ahead of us and we have to deal with it. The Vice-President of the Government, Drasakis, admitted it publicly, and Mrs Valavani, who said yesterday that the main reason that imposed the draft law and the new regulation on outstanding debts was the need to obtain revenue in April. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation on outstanding debts to the public and the insurance funds, which occupy the main part of this bill, is essentially on the philosophy of the regulation that the Samara Government has voted on. In some cases it contains improvements, in others, there are provisions which involve less favourable treatment for taxpayers. I shall refer in detail to them, but above all to the articles we request to withdraw. I would like to make it clear that these articles do not concern regulation provisions, but quite different issues. It is good that Article 1 has been tabled to include in the regulation of the hundreds of instalments and the charges to municipalities, including those resulting from a cash contribution or the conversion of a contribution into land. Clearly, there was no preparation. If it were there, there would be no need to table an amendment which would leave no room for manoeuvre. For example, Minister, you should include dues to the legal persons of public and private law of Ottawa (a) and (b) grades and, above all, to the JHA. I ask you to do this so that the framework of the TAs debt regulation is completed. I said before that there are provisions that improve the regulation that we have adopted as a government. It is the extension of the hundred instalments for debts above EUR 15 000, the undeclared debt payment of up to EUR 5 000, the reduction of the interest rate to 3% of the 4.56% previously set for the other classifications of the amounts due. I mentioned some typical examples. There are others I have no problem accepting. But there are also distortions and changes in the most unfavourable way. One of these is the exemption of surcharges and fines. With the regulation of the Samara government, which has been in force to date, the removal of surcharges and fines amounts to 90% in payment in 12 instalments. On the contrary, with the regulation we are debating today in Article 1, the exemption of fines and surcharges to 90% comes with the repayment of two to five instalments. With the regulation you have brought, repayment of the debt in twelve instalments leads to a 75% reduction, while it was 90% before. I also see the expansion of the debt limit that can be included in the regulation of more than one million. I said it yesterday in committee, and I will say it today in plenary. We believe that because, in the category of over EUR 1 million debts, wealthy citizens are involved, many of whom can pay, but they do not pay, the government must consider this. There must be a separation of cases or, as a minimum, there must be clear criteria and cross-checks as to whether there are any assets or deposits in the hijackers, whether they are natural persons or undertakings, in order to join the favourable framework of arrangements. They cannot join those who prove themselves but do not pay. This can also be easily distinguished from cross-checks on deposits or assets. I could also table other objections, however much as I understand the pressure that is in receipt of direct revenue, for example the total removal of fines and increases for those who pay off their debts one day. Here too, there should be a ceiling for the large sums of debt, because someone who pays a one-off sum of EUR 1 million means that he had, but consciously he did not pay. Ladies and gentlemen, the good faith with which we are dealing with the bill and the framework for the regulation of dues cannot eliminate the serious objections we have about four specific articles. These are articles which do not relate to outstanding debts and we ask that they be withdrawn. I am referring to Articles 16 and 17, which effectively marginalise the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, give it competence and call into question the independence of the tax administration. The Minister cannot decide for everything, from the circulars and how the regulations are applied to even the exceptions to the regulation. An important innovation and reform in the past three years was to guarantee the independence of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue. These two articles, 16 and 17, are a return to the practices of a past that we all hoped we have finally left behind and you bring it back. I would remind you that the Prime Minister made an election commitment to the independence of the tax administration, and also the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, in the text sent to the Eurogroup, he had made a special reference to strengthening the independence of the tax administration. These two articles must be withdrawn. I come to Article 21, which concerns a very large number of Greek enterprises that have transactions with natural persons or with businesses in countries with a special or preferential tax regime, such as Cyprus, Bulgaria and Ireland. I believe that the specific regulation you are trying to do is, above all, because it is certain that it is infringing European legislation on free competition, as the report of the Parliament's Scientific Office says. You come to deal with and treat all these businesses as potential tax-plugs and tax-plusers. How? By ordering them to pay an advance withholding tax equal to the tax rate, i.e. 26%, on the total expenditure in question and then, within one year, to produce the supporting documents for reimbursement. The burden is given in particular for thousands of enterprises in northern Greece that are traded with enterprises or natural persons in Bulgaria. Even self-proof transactions, such as the purchase of raw materials or the physical movement of products, will be charged with this retention tax. It seems you do not understand that Greek companies are in a liquidity problem and are struggling to survive. In fact, you are punishing these businesses because they remain in Greece and have not, like many others, been transferred to Bulgaria and Romania. If you want to check the tax evasion through triangular transactions, you can do it. There is an institutional and strict framework for triangular transactions. Greek businesses, particularly in northern Greece, cannot be driven to economic suffocation, especially in the area of the country which suffered from the deindustrialisation and the fleeing of businesses. It's like sending a wrong message at the wrong time to all these businesses. The New Democracy asks the Minister to withdraw Article 21. The same attitude is being adopted for the much-reached Article 24. Anyone who sees the content of this article, which concerns the dismantling and liquidation of the company "Atlantic Coast Front S.A." and the absorption of EBRD and its real estate by the public property management body that is to be established, without giving other details, realizes that something is wrong with this article. There's a not creative, but drunken ambiguity. However, there is no room for ambiguity in the legislative work, particularly in relation to public property and its exploitation. I would also like to remind you that the company's revenues are not channelled into the special account for the public debt, but some of them are available for action projects and interventions in collaboration with the municipalities in the region. The legislative improvement submitted yesterday is unconstitutional, because the legislator cannot impose deferral of the courts, i.e. create a posture. Only the judge in court can do that, and that's why he has the legal arsenal. It is Article 249 of the Code of Civil Procedure which enables him to postpone a pending trial if he - the judge, that is, - and only he judges it. Of course, there has been a further legislative improvement today, a short time ago, which we will study and assess, as to whether the problem remains. You're not actually telling us or you don't know what you want to do by making use of public property. You generally speak vaguely of a new body for the management of public property, without clarifying the structure, staffing and targeting it will have. I do not understand why this article has the characteristics of urgency, even if this is not presumed anywhere. We propose to withdraw this article, Article 24. When you're ready to bring it back, let's talk about it. To bring this forward, when you have created a picture and a precise framework for this fund, but also for the allocation of revenue from the use of public property, which is unclear after the word'mainly' added - manuscripts in fact - regarding the allocation of revenue, as mentioned above, for the financing of social and social security policy. I do not want to connect the anxiety and anxiety that you see about this article with other issues nor to let shadows hover. That's not my intention. It's better and more honest to retire. You have a government majority, but the legislative work requires excellence. I would also like to make a reference to Article 31 concerning matters of solidarity and responsibility of members of boards, legal persons and partners or shareholders of capital companies for the payment of insurance contributions. I would like to point out, Minister, that you must take serious account of the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past three years there has been a great effort, no matter how many people try to cancel it and deceive it. This effort has worked. The sacrifices of Greek citizens must not be lost. Everyone is now aware of the consequences of a prolonged period of instability and insecurity that began last December. I would remind you that in January there was an outflow of EUR 12.5 billion. A further EUR 1.5 billion was added to the red loans. In January and February 800m euros were added and EUR 900m respectively new public debts, i.e. a total of EUR 1.7 billion. The problem of liquidity is strong not only in budgetary matters, but also in the market. That is why you have proceeded with this arrangement in the hope of influencing money. But relaunching the economy is a complex matter. We were close, closing in 2014 at a marginally positive rate of growth. We see that the quantitative relaxation and bond market programme offers liquidity to European economies. Yesterday, Ireland was borrowed at a zero rate. When the European Central Bank shields the euro area countries that come out of the market, it buys government bonds. It would be a pity for Greece to spread in 2010 or 2012. Instead of breaking the buttons, like the OPECE, seek to get the cash available to the general government and the insurance funds, to cover the country's obligations and not to have a credit event, it would be better to seek and choose the composition and consultation of partners within the European framework, as well as within the country at political and social level. Greek citizens have maturity and are realistically faced with the situation. They want to end this four-month period of uncertainty and go down. We see that Portugal and Ireland came out of the memoranda and come out of the market, with Ireland, as I said, to borrow at zero interest rates. It is time to realise that the country's involvement in the European context and its credibility are the factors that ensure that its financial needs are met. The only development resources available to the country, the new ESDP, the new CFP and the Juncker package come from Europe. We need to restore a relationship of trust with our partners. It will be the first step towards an honest agreement, an agreement which, if it is nationally beneficial, will also have our own consensus. I pointed it out yesterday, but I will say today that your Government is lucky to have an Opposition that is ready to support any positive measures, reform efforts that improve the lives of citizens and remove administrative and financial burdens. Our government did not have that privilege. On the contrary, he had to deal with not at all. At last, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be three years since there has been nothing positive, nothing positive has happened in this place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. As far as the bill is concerned, the New Democracy's position was and is clear. We are addressing positively the regulation provisions on outstanding debts to the public, the insurance funds and the municipalities, without prejudice to what I have said about the need to separate debts of more than EUR 1 million. We are asking for Articles 16, 17, 21 and 24 to be withdrawn and we believe that we have adequately substantiated the reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Georgios Galeos is called at Step from the Golden Dawn. Here, Mr. Galeo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill and I deliver it to the Bureau. I would now like to see things for this bill. First of all, it has a name which does not justify at all, '...relaunching the economy'. What do you want to relaunch the economy? With the money you're going to collect from those who don't have to pay and what they can give or do you want to reboot the economy by taking some properties, putting them in the air for a while? I don't understand! We have all agreed here - or almost all of us have agreed here - that the relaunching of the economy is coming with growth. Development in this bill we don't see. This bill barely has three different directions. The first direction concerns these people, the old small and medium-sized ones, which, unfortunately, with the previous government has shrinked, weakened, lost all the money. It was this class in which father and mother usually worked, if they were for a family, taking money, taking his vacation, paying his taxes and moving the economy. At the moment, that doesn't exist. Most of these familymen no longer have money to live, but because they are honest - unlike some others - want to pay their taxes. It is for them that the reforms are made so that they can pay gradually, with their taxes being paid. Of course, that's one side. And it may have to do with the humanism we had to do in the previous bill. Only at that time was extreme poverty, and now they are people who are on the poverty line who we are trying somehow to lighten. Of course, SYRIZA is not a shareholder, because for some time now he has made some statements and everyone is waiting for this bill. They're waiting to see what SYRIZA tells them, what laws he'll bring, to go to pay. No one pays - I think - for the last one or two months, which is why our funds are empty. Let's go to the second leg. This is the second part SYRIZA is trying to achieve. And that for me and my resignation is not urgent, but it is certainly urgent. He wants to raise as much money as possible in a shorter period of time. That's why he's trying to pick up what he's given. Of course, he has another message - I think some of them in here have said - that everyone will now want seventy, a hundred instalments, etc., which means that the money is going to get it within eight to ten years. I think that if this were not the case, the economic situation of Greek families and citizens would be the wrong measure. Of course, it also contains an entirely irrelevant article, the irrelevant article on which we are all discussing whether or not it should be included or not - the Minister wants to include it and will be included for the SYRIZA coastal front company. I don't understand what the reason for this haste is. We want to take a company that is in existence, which has trials and get it cleared, and there is no particular reason at this time to do so, with a risk of losing some public money. I don't think that's it. Could wait a minute, a month, a half and a half. Of course, I would like to tell you that there are some things that put me in some thoughts. We see that everything that the article says is completely vague, that is, this company will be included in another company. Previously, before the conversion, he said he was going to the S.H.I.E.L.D. Now he's in the air until he becomes the new company. But there are some other points. I'll make a little combination. I do not suppose anything, but I am simply leading to some thoughts, which I think I have to tell Parliament to think about, too. We have an agreement signed by Mr Varoufakis since 20 February. Nobody knows her in Parliament. Some claim that they have mischiefs and other rough articles have found - not by the government officially, but unofficially. We, as Golden Dawn, know nothing of this, except that an agreement has been signed. Maybe the whole thing is urgent, why does it have anything to do with this deal? Do we want the company to be in the air to sell the properties at some point? Maybe, I'm saying! Do all these articles that we see appear to us and all the joint decisions made by ministers and ministerial councils have to do with the bill? Does all these circumstances lead to the end of the sale of the properties or to be granted at the moment? I would like a concrete answer from the government. You see, Minister, like you, I most often do not agree with Mr Georgiadis, but at the moment I am forced to agree, because I see that things are happening, which are not the norm. There is a concession, that is, there's something coming out and going into the air, it's dry, there's no particular reason. Are there any specific dates to pass these properties somewhere else and where? These are the questions I wanted to ask the government. I won't be using all the time. I'll give the government more time to answer me if he does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Galeo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u111	Mrs. Valvanie, would you like to intervene? How many minutes will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u112	I'll only need two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u113	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Two legal improvements I would like to make in the context of the debate that we had before with the elephants. I will tell you in English in common and will come in the form of a legal improvement in Article 24. It changes - it is actually replaced - the first paragraph, the first subparagraph. The rest - verses 2, 3 and 4 - stay the same. I read: “1. The public limited liability company called the ‘State Coastal Front S.A.’, established in accordance with the provisions of Article 16 of the Law. 4146/2013, is absorbed as a whole of assets and liabilities by EBRD S.A. as of the day following the publication of the present. By Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the details of the completion of the merger are laid down - or the absorption, if you wish - 'of the previous paragraph'. I think after that there's a Catholic heir...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u115	Can I help you? Are you saying a merger now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u116	It's offended.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u117	It's as good as it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u118	It's as good as it is. So there's a Catholic heir directly from the next one already, who's the ETA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Athanasios, it will be distributed. Please, "paint" it and take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u120	We want to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u121	Please, to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u122	There is nothing in the other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u123	Please, make sure the services are distributed. Madam Minister, thank you. Mr. Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Article 21: I will also make the essential change that is taking place. The length of the year in which the tax is to be refunded has been three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u125	Is that an administrative cost, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u126	Put it in writing, Minister. Mr Theocharis from the river now has the floor. Here, Mr. Theocharis, use your fifteen-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in the same spectators' work. A maximalist verbatism - "Confidences for relaunching the economy" - in this bill and a content that has nothing to do with the title. Really? ‘Approvements to relaunch the economy’? With this bill you've brought, there's no relaunching. That is the reality and we need to understand it. Two years, gentlemen! Two years you've known or said you know you're going to rule. What did you do? I wonder. Anything? Maybe you didn't know. You didn't have the government's experience. So many PASOK executives, they came to you, didn't they? Didn't one find someone to tell you how design and determination are needed in every government?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u128	Did you forget what you were doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u129	I haven't ruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u130	Don't interrupt the speaker, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u131	So here we are again. Let me tell you. Since no one told you, I'll tell you what's going on. The relaunch of the economy needs regulation of red loans. We're listening to her and we're not seeing her. You've been feeding us special banks and other nice and possibly right. But that was a 'last year'! Because now we don't see anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u132	How long have we been ruling?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u133	Debt settlement to the general public. I didn't put the title on. I didn't pick a title for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u134	Your title was bleeding!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u135	It also matters the title, because you declare what you want to correct under the title. The current draft is therefore a debt adjustment to the general public. Finally, the third necessary for relaunching is a development framework for entrepreneurship and employment. And that's what we need, which we haven't heard or spoken about. Gently. I don't have to say anything else, I think we understand. We're tired of waiting like a retired bus that doesn't come. The government bus. You think if you don't make a decision, you won't displease anyone. But things run. Not making a decision does not give the unemployed a job, it doesn't help the man he owes, it doesn't give his money to the unpaid. You need to make decisions. Unfortunately you will find out in a painful way and the Greek citizens will know, since you do not want to hear me and those who tell you these things and change course. I hope you will, even now, do so. So, let me accept for the moment that the rest of us will be brought to new bills. So let's start by changing the title. ‘Structuring arrangements for the treatment of public debts’. Let's at least say that. Is this bill doing it? Oh, no. He's dealing with debts? It does not do that either, ladies and gentlemen, because here too we are unprepared and fragmented. We have 77 billion debts. Two billion are regulated. These debts have about four million taxpayers. Are all debts the same? No, it's not. The fines of the Code of Books and Elements have 1% collectivity and I'm generous because they have less than 1%. Old debts - over five years - are 50% of debts. And these debts have no collection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u136	Who's responsible for this? You were in a knot and what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u137	Is that our fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u138	I didn't say it was your fault. I say we recognize a problem. Do you solve it? You don't solve the problem. I didn't say it was your fault. I'm saying you don't solve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u139	What did you do? Where have you been so far?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u140	It doesn't matter right now. The debts are in our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt the speaker and the debate. Go on, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u142	But the little debtors and the big ones. The settings cannot be horizontal. Neither beneficial nor bad regulations to citizens should be horizontal. What were you supposed to do? Let me give you the plan here, too. We give it to you, free, free, and no copyright we hold. Take it and fix it. Simplify bankruptcy law for those who have debts and can no longer repay them, no matter how many instalments you give them. This is part of the plan. Simplify and accelerate procedures for unacceptably. Finally, we still have billions in the books for billions. All the dead owe the public. They're still sitting there. Settings fixed and unchanged, helping fiscal consciousness and compliance. When the other one knows one framework that never changes, he knows how to behave. That is what people are asking for: stability in the legislative framework. Of course, and an emergency regulation which recognises the crisis as something extraordinary and painful, which we cannot overcome with the usual measures. This crisis we're going through isn't something common. By the way, that's what you're bringing. That's all. Forced recovery measures for those who do not regulate or can regulate and do not do so or are not in such a situation that they must go bankrupt. And that's what you have to bring - the Minister is not here to hear - because otherwise it's an empty letter to say it's the last chance. It was Stournara's last chance, Mavraani's last chance, now it will be Balavani's, tomorrow will be Mr. Samois and so on. We're just changing names to settings. It is possible to clear up, which you have forgotten and we have tabled an amendment. Potential for the recognition of public debts. There are companies that they owe because they owe them the public. And do they have to close? Isn't that supposed to be handled? We have tabled an amendment to this effect, in which it can be recognised - in the context of this crisis - not all the debt but even one 10%. Give a signal that we recognize that out there there are housewives, whom we are destroying. Finally, see what it means 'to regulate and to deal with a specific problem'. I don't throw articles and words. So instead of everything I've told you, you only bring the emergency arrangements. Let us reschedule the title: 'Approvements for the immediate collection of outstanding debts'. That's what you brought. No arrangements to relaunch the economy, no arrangements to settle debts. Arrangements for the direct collection of outstanding debts. So don't listen to emotional speeches from colleagues from SYRIZA, one after another, what a drama the world is going through, what a mess and how we have to solve the problem, why you don't solve it. Tell us about what you're bringing here. That's what you have to tell us about. No words about the economy, the unemployed, the unprotected who have nothing to do with the bill. So let us even judge this bill with what it does, not what it says it does. Did the Stournara arrangement work? Did it work? Oh, no. It didn't work. Half a billion has been set, 280 million have been collected, and unfortunately it has not succeeded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u143	Since you've ruled out the whole world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u144	With you to any problems. With you. Did the Hardublis arrangement work? A little over a billion has been set, 200 million have been collected. Less than the Stournara setting. Why do you think the Balabane arrangement will work? It's one of the same. We're changing some percentages, some parameters. In 20, we made it 30, 75, we did 65, and something changed. It won't work. First, it gives incentives for more doses. Someone who chooses fewer doses now wins less. I mean, he's the one who's going to give the money faster to the public, earns less than the Hardouveli arrangement. It's worse than that. One who chooses to pay in five years, in 100 instalments, wins more than Hardouvel's setting. Wrong motives. You motivate people not to pay while we're supposed to be burning up for revenue now. Now! This arrangement manages the same. We do not understand why, for example, we are bringing about insurance funds, and we are bringing about taxes. Three different settings we have. One is the emergency that came in the previous bill the other day and had to pass a day ago. We voted for it the other day. The second is different regulations here and the third is for the insurance funds with this bill. It's not possible. People are dizzy. All we do is give the accountants a job, 'cause everyone's dizzy. Of course that's good. People get to work. It's probably the only development the bill brings. So this bill is a reheated food. We estimate that it will bring about four years in depth if we leave it and do not change it again in three months, about 3.1 billion. This year's will bring the 850 million. I can assure you that most of these 850 million are already regulated. All we do is take people who've already set and set them in a row and transfer them from one set to the next. That's what's gonna happen, and that's gonna be most of what you bring. You are bringing us a bill with the urgency procedure which has irresponsible regulations which cannot be discussed in urgent procedure. Firstly, the urgency procedure itself is unacceptable for a bill which has one, two and three months. There's no point in winning two days for this thing. He doesn't! The emergency procedure was capable. There are procedures in Parliament: simple, urgent, urgent for every occasion. This bill doesn't fit in the emergency. But I'm over it. If you want to bring urgent bills, do not put intolerable regulations in and, in particular, the Code of Income Taxation. The Income Tax Code is very passionate. We've troubled the whole world in the past. The main thing is that we are changing it now and it applies to time. Article 21 that is changing will in particular affect next year's declarations, this year's income, for which the tax is paid next year. It doesn't make any sense to have to change it today. Let's change next week or the above. There's no reason. In particular, however, Articles 21, 24 and 31 are articles which should not bring about a party like SYRIZA, which - and quite rightly so - have done so - in the past these procedures with which matters are not discussed in detail and as should be discussed, and that is, articles which have a major impact. I think that Article 24 has been explained in detail. I do not think we can add much more to what has been said. You have to withdraw it and you have to come back to discuss it calmly. There can be no risk - if it is true what I hear - even 1 billion in this kind of trial and play crowns - letters because we are ashamed to withdraw an article from a bill. Retire it and nobody will blame you. At least we won't. The Minister has previously made a change - and for the better it is - for Article 21. You brought the date from one year to three months. We're creating a new tax refund line. We currently owe 2 billion to businesses for income tax and VAT, and now you're putting a new one. And if he's made the request in three months, the businessman won't get his money in three months. Be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u145	Three months? They weren't giving six months here, are they going to give now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u146	He won't get it in three months. He'll make the application in three months so he won't give up. Actually, you might make it worse. You practically brought the limitation period to three months, because then if he hasn't made the application, he'll lose it. It's about getting his money. And I assure you it's not too easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u147	There's no way!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u148	Finally, I shall refer to Rule 31. Article 31 circumvents the concept of public limited liability companies and EIA. We understand the difference, that in the anonymous company you put capital, because it's capital, and you can lose all the money you put on capital, but nothing else? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Is it possible for every shareholder to be in solidarity with more than 10%, Minister? Look at it, please. You need to see it again. There's no such legislation anywhere. Is the shareholder not to be in solidarity with the debts that he does not manage? And you recognize that this cannot be the case, as long as you exclude the quoted ones. You exclude listed companies and you're doing well, but you shouldn't need the exception. In all companies, the shareholders have a specific responsibility. With an article, do we change the whole legal framework? In closing - and I am ending this - I want to say that we need to be careful when we are going through provisions of this kind that change the whole trade law. I am not a legal person, but here we have legal relationships, which are established in both habit and logic. You want to change them? We should change them, but in proper consultation. Please withdraw these three articles. You have to withdraw them if you want to legislate properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr Theochari. Gentlemen of the Golden Dawn, you have tabled a request for a roll-call vote. You are nine: two ladies and seven gentlemen. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Panayotare, require fifteen. I read you the Rules of Procedure, of which I am bound: 'If the required minimum number of Members present by the signatories is not completed, the application shall be deemed not to have been submitted'. Therefore, Mr Panayotare, it will either be considered that the necessary number has not been submitted or will be expected to be completed. That is what the Rules of Procedure imposes, and I am committed to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u150	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u151	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. We know that we are less than fifteen Members, but this is not because of one of the Members of the Golden Dawn. We want to highlight once again the fact that judiciary does what it wants on legislative and executive. You all have to understand that. What is happening in the Greek Parliament has never been done anywhere. Fifteen signatures of Members of the Golden Dawn are needed to hold a roll-call vote. They're not gone because they don't want to. They are missing because a prosecutor decided not to authorize them to attend this most important bill in plenary, as was the case yesterday and the day before yesterday and the day before, and without any justification. This is something that if and if you want to be called democrats - something you are constantly using for you and deny it from us - you should solve it, end this disgrace that is taking place within the Greek Parliament. Finally, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, speaks of three hundred MPs, does not speak of fewer Members and in this case does not speak of two hundred and ninety-four. You should understand that and it has nothing to do with - I repeat - whether you like us or you don't like us. If our presence is not desirable for you, you should find political reasons to convince the voters that we are wrong, that we are not right. From there on, the Constitution and the laws of the state are being violated all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u153	You said, Mr Panayota, that you did so to raise the matter, which you had time and you raised it. I follow the Rules of Procedure. Your application is therefore considered not to be submitted. Mr. Theodorakis, who asked for the floor, can he expect the end of the speakers? There are two left, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u154	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u155	Good. Before giving the floor to Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece, because we have high attractions, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Edessa High School. The House welcomes you. We wish you health and progress and above all fight for the good of our country! Be well! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u156	Within a few hours the JRC's group's assessment has been confirmed that the Bureau has opened a dangerous flaw in connection with the criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn. You have given them the right to come here every day and play their dangerous communication games. Mr President, you should have stopped the debate by considering this request for the Golden Dawn as unacceptable, because of course, in front of the trials that are to be carried out, an environment which is provoked, an uprooting of the Nazi character, the criminal character of the Golden Dawn. It is in this context that you must feel the responsibility you have as the Bureau of Parliament. In the first place, I would like to make a first point. A few hours have ended up in the deal. I do not see any fairs that the government gave the battle with dignity, defeated, retreated, retreated. Not at all! The agreement last night confirmed that all the Eurogroup decisions of 20 February were in force. Of course, here we need to look at two issues: firstly, that this tough negotiation by the government is part of the overall controversy, of the dispute within the European Union and of the direct involvement of the United States. Secondly, it is a negotiation that is taking place on behalf of the capital, which is why SYRIZA's supporter is BSE, the Association of Greek Industries. BSE has not lost its classic character. At the heart of this negotiation, of course, are the needs of business groups to relaunch the capitalist economy and not to recover losses and satisfy people's needs. All this has been referred to the Greek bells in the Monday Presence. That is why yesterday's statement by Mr Tsipras is not random, after the end of the agreement. What did he say? He said there would be no new substantive measures. Very quickly you have forgotten the terms 'anti-grass measures', 'austerity measures'. Lucky? I don't think so! If it were an agreement that really facilitated, it relieved all the peoples at the end, first the government would rush it to the House, discuss it and vote on it. She didn't even testify. We are not aware, we cannot know exactly what the new government signed. But you do not do that and it confirms what the JRC has appreciated. What do you mean? That the agreement of 20 February of Eurogroup is a follow-up to the country's loan and Memorandum obligations, as signed by the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, and that, of course, the Memorandum is not repealed in the words, but with the abolition of all the applicable laws. You don't do none of this. That is why negotiating within the walls of the European Union, on the basis of the acceptance of the European Union's strategic agreements, which the current government does not question, under the sovereignty of monopolistic groups, is a negotiation against the people. There is, in other words, no pluralist way out of the way in which capital is dominated, under conditions of participation of our country in the European Union. The only way out for the benefit of the people is through conflict and break with their monopolies and interests through their socialisation. It conflicts and breaks with the European Union and the other imperialist organisations to free Greece from it. It's the way out through the unilateral deletion of the state debt. You don't do none of this. We should also come to the bill. SYRIZA's rapporteur claimed that the government, with this legislative initiative, sought to relieve popular strata. Is she alleviating them? Did you really answer that question? However, to answer this question, should you not ask yourself why this overcharge on people's households who cannot pay taxes? What for? What happened? Of course, there is the general unjust tax system. In capitalism, tax systems are unfair. They take from the many to give them to the few. They take from the people to give them to capital and entrepreneurs. But that's not all. What do we have on this basis? We have a very heavy attack over the last five years on wages and pensions. We have overthrows of industrial relations, the expansion of unemployment and the proliferation of the locks of self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises. In combination with all this, they reduce the standard of living with a huge tax raid launched by the previous governments with the carpets, the fees, the increase in tax rates. Are you changing all this on this legislative initiative? Oh, no. Do you change any of this? Nothing. So you leave unadulterated, infinitely, keep the anti-grass environment that has contributed to the existence of this overcompensation of people's households. But don't you do that? Do you, however, relieve these people's strata by reducing the debts? No reduction in debts at all. So what are you telling them? You should pay for the penitentiary. It's not about how many instalments they'll pay. The question is what we'll pay for. And you tell them 'you'll pay it all'. And the carpets you legalize both the tax raid and everything. So to this challenge, in relief, is answering the JRC's amendment and we want the government to stand up to this amendment and to tell us whether it agrees to be discussed in today's debate, yes or no. Why are we saying that the JRC's amendment is correct? Because he's very clear. It is clear who it includes. It doesn't include everything. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] We say: 'Popular households with family incomes of up to EUR 40,000'. From there on, no care. We don't care about the rich, the capitalists. Includes individual and personal enterprises rather than S.A. and major business groups. We say to them that we need to be interested, because it is precisely those who have suffered the consequences of the capitalist crisis and the anti-popular attack. So we are clear about who it involves. Second, what's he doing? It is bogging off debts, not only fines and surcharges, but also capital. It weighs on all the debts that come from unjust and unpopular fees, a fee of trade, a fee of solidarity, which the current government maintains. He's tiring the debts that are in existence by HNVY in all the forms he took and not all, but we set specific conditions for the first residence as a hundred and twenty square meters and for the secondary to eighty square meters. Big real estate to pay. People's households mustn't pay. We're tiring up the hospitals. For him, who had no insurance and went to the public hospital to go to hospital and could not pay the hospitals - now they're transferring them to taxi - we're mowing them. Because it is unacceptable that someone who has no insurance must pay out of his pocket the hospitals and finally, if he does not, they should be transferred to the tax office. Of course, we are struggling all debts for a family of EUR 20,000. Because he has paid too much, and he must not pay anything else. The third thing we do is make it easier for others to repay what they have, taking into account what? That all the charges and current charges must not exceed 10% in tax along with regulation. We are, of course, doing so, in the context of the overall proposal we have, namely, that the fees and raisins should be abolished, that there should be tax relief measures for the people, with an increase in tax at EUR 40,000, a tax burden on large capital, a abolition of VAT on first-hand goods, in the context of our overall logic of recovering losses, in order to satisfy people's needs. These are proposals that give strength to the people, the working class and the people's movement to fight to overthrow this situation. What's your proposal? Have you wondered what your proposal is doing? You took the proposal of the previous government, of the New Democracy and of PASOK, in which you voted 'the present', and made some minor amendments. You're not changing anything about the substance. You do some small facilities, but they do not change the permanent hostage status that you call on the people to have, that is to say, the execution by doses to the people. That is why there was no previous period of time, as now it was possible to introduce a larger number. So it's a very small number that had joined the previous arrangement and now it's not changing. Apart from that, however, you are also extending the limits of those who can join, that is, you include those who owe more than EUR 1 million, and that is only six and a half thousand. Why are you doing this? Do you need to trim the fines and the increments? Many of them owe them decades and are not the result of the crisis, but it is their choice, because they are facilitated by the framework, in the name of the anonymity of the shares, in the name of protecting the capitalist property and the company, which the Constitution imposes. And yet you put them too. So, basically, what are they? They are collective measures, which you are once again turning towards the people, within the framework of internal lending. The government is moving on to internal lending to pay the lenders, thus mocking the people's needs, as did the previous government. We asked you and we did not receive a reply yesterday: do you, like the previous government, include customs infringements of the dues arrangement? You understand very well, Mr. Army, the meaning of the question. Because its previous arrangement included it. If you maintain this regime, it is a challenge. I go to the second part, to the insurance fund. Of course, the economic crisis and the intensity of monopolistic sales have put most of the self-employed in a difficult position. The fall of the cigarette brought them abruptly to the standard of living in previous years. This in turn accumulated obligations that could not be paid. The premium in OAU is too high for the current income of the self-employed, so the vast majority of them cannot pay the contribution. The most recent OSCE data suggest that more than three hundred thousand active insured persons are in debt to the Agency, in a total of seven hundred forty thousand, that is half. At the same time, anti-popular tax measures against self-employed persons increased sharply, with 26% tax from the first euro, with the trade fee and the ENPIA. The result is to increase the tax overcompensation to them too. This situation has created financial deadlocks which cannot be managed by the vast majority of the self-employed and small EIAs, whether they have so far been able to keep their shop or have closed it. That is why more than two hundred and thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises have put a lock on it at the same time. Does your current provision for insurance funds benefit these businesses? When it remains a prerequisite for it to be taxly informed, you understand very well that it makes it difficult for them. You are therefore maintaining this unacceptable arrangement that you should normally pay contributions to the EUPM so that it can be regulated. He couldn't do it before, he can't do it now. It didn't change the situation. So any micro-improvements do not change the character. It means that the anti-grassroots policy on taxation and insurance must be legitimised by means of this procedure. That's what you want to impose. The new government is investing in the delusion of the tiny blocks to return to the pre-crisis situation and that their current difficult position will be reversible. However, with the OECD toolbox, the liberalisation of the market and the dominance of monopolies, there is no return to the former situation for the self-employed. Because you know very well that the market is increasingly being sold, so that the large majority will be found - and it will be - in a failure to repay the new burdens that exist. That's exactly what I'm saying. And it is no coincidence that only nine and a half thousands of OAU insured people entered the previous arrangement, 1.74% of the debtors, for arrangements of up to 134 million debts, that is, 1.8 of the debts to the fund. And many of them have stopped because they cannot comply with the arrangement. So, from this point of view, there are issues that the JRC highlights, which can today alleviate the self-employed, such as the abolition of the VRC. 4010/2013 for 26% tax from the first euro, such as the reduction of insurance contributions by 30%, without loss of their insurance rights, retroactively for the period of the whole financial crisis or the freezing of debts to the OIE and the State, the capitalisation of debts without incremental fees and additional fees. Mr President, I come to two articles which have monopolized the debate in a way. As far as Article 24 is concerned, we also asked the committee why the government is in a hurry to move forward with a fragmentary regulation, that is to say it is in a hurry to abolish the 'Atlantic Front Paradise', to merge the EBRD with the EBRD, while it is going to bring, as has been promised, a new body. You say that in this general provision. What's the reason for this acceleration? You did not give us any specific answer. No convincing answer, when too many questions arise as to what this acceleration can serve. So, what is confirmed, whether or not they have any basis for these questions? The following issue at the centre is confirmed. There's a huge dispute between business interests to put hands on the real estate of the public. It's going to follow a big chow. Already there was and will be followed by a huge food from these business interests, large groups, local and foreign. And it will continue with the new government, in the name of the "evaluation" of public property. Because all you do is change the form and not the content, not the substance. For whether it is a concession, whether it is a exploitation or a partnership, the same thing will be. In other words, business interests will be guaranteed to put a hand in real estate. It is the 'tree on the lace' that you put with what you say some of the revenues will go towards financing social security. And if you want it, it's reactionary. It is also reactionary, because the reinsurance measures continue to have to be abolished, the redistributive to be converted into recapitalisation and business groups to be exempted from employers' contributions to the insurance funds. In this context you find another source of support for the insurance funds, through the divestment of the public property and is the "tree on the lace" in order to allow this popular conscience to be accepted for the benefit of the profits of the capitalist groups. And, of course, a large part of it will continue to go to repay the state debt and, indeed, the property is being exploited. You put the entire public property. And your answer was misleading, Minister, when you talk in total about public property and not about private property. Because before you said that only the private property of the public can be exploited. Now you put the entire public property. In this respect, therefore, you are extending the limits, extending the scope of business groups to other sectors as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u157	Mr Colleague, please, if you can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u158	I have come to an end with that phrase. And the last issue is for the workers. They are twenty-nine workers on the 'State Front'. Would you, in other words, mind instead of the wording that you have put in the amendment - which does not bring any change - you say very specifically that these twenty-nine workers will be transferred to the new body of self-righteousness? He doesn't need anything else. That's all. Three words are, if you say you will. Already write it down on paper, because scripta manent. 'Cause, of course, with words, you're building up intangible and intangible. The same, of course, applies to Article 27 for the cavalry. You are essentially giving an extension to the designs and competitions of business groups for the exploitation of the hay and shores. And from this point of view, Mr President - thank you for the tolerance - the JRC is voting against this bill in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made by two colleagues to permit a short-day absence abroad. My colleague, Mr Hatzilabrou Vassilis, is asking for a short-day leave to be granted to be absent in Tunisia at the World Social Forum, representing the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group from Wednesday, March 25th to Friday, 27th. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u160	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Parliamentary Representative of the Potamio Mr Theocharis Theocharis informs us that he is asking to be absent from Parliament from 24 March to 26 March on personal grounds. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u161	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kammenos Dimitrios, has a series. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a very interesting debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on all the issues in the draft law. Of course, we are voting in favour of the draft law on re-launching the economy. I will give some figures today to know exactly what happened until 31-12-2014. Because this government accepts criticism, I would say sometimes justified, other unjustified. But since we must not forget that the icebergs have a very small peak that seems and the largest and most dangerous part of them is under water and does not appear, I would like to analyse a little what is not seen and what we have forgotten over the last fifty days. The total private sector liabilities at the end of 2014 exceeded EUR 300 billion. I am analyzing: Private sector debts in October to banks were EUR 212.1 billion. Of these, 101 billion are corporate debts, 13.2 billion are freelance professionals, 97.3 billion euros are household debts, either housing or consumer loans. However, the total is about EUR 300 billion. Let's go back to the end of December 2014. Tax debts were EUR 74 billion and increased by almost EUR 1-1.5 billion a month. Liabilities to the insurance funds amounted to more than EUR 20 billion. For red loans we have said too many times. Of the total EUR 212 billion, which was the private sector debt to banks, red loans were 80 billion euros. At the same time, three million six hundred thousand of our fellow citizens at the time - all of us, because we, too, are all Greek citizens, and we all owe something somewhere - were captive with dues, practically without tax and insurance information. I will leave that to the Secretariat, so that colleagues can see it. I want to say what I had said several times in my suggestions to the House, that we need to make a programme, a project, to see ourselves and where we are right now. The lenders gave us 253 billion, made us poorer and wait for us to pay them. Good! There is here a oxymospheric shape, financially impossible to explain logically. As a mirror in this equation, the Greek public - and I would like to pay attention to the perhaps 'hard' conditions that I will use - with foreign law, tax and not only to make a projection of this acidic shape of over-unionism to poor people, to bring overcompensated debts to people who were even poorer. Because a state is poor, when the citizens are poor too. I will disagree or agree with someone who Mr Venizelos said earlier, if Greece is poor in relation to Greeks as a country and as a citizen. At a time when you are povertying the citizen, when you assure him 80 or 70 billion euros or 60 billion euros in any way, it is impossible to expect you to collect them. This, as a state and as an administration, must be seen very carefully, that is to say, the way, the time, and under what law and what laws this debt has increased to people, to Greek citizens. And it increased with overtaxation. I say what I want as Dimitris Kammenos, as a member of the Independent Greeks, as a Greek citizen or as a member of the coup d'état? Oh, no. I read last year's survey by the German Foundation Hans Böckler, entitled 'The poorest in Greece were taxed by 337%, while the wealthy by 9%.' Should we go back to the numbers? In the last five years, the tax burden, the increase in tax burdens, has fallen by 337%, i.e. three and a half times for the most deprived, under the middle class, and by 9% for the wealthy. I read part of the report: "The harsh austerity measures imposed on the country, which were on the verge of bankruptcy, have resulted in a sharp increase in poverty." As indicated in the investigation, the nominal Gross Product decreased by 1/4. Particularly burdened are, according to the survey, the medium and low incomes, which have lifted most of the burden during the crisis. Be careful, it is a German institution that has done the report. And it concludes: 'In absolute numbers, although the tax burden on non-preferential households has only increased by a few hundreds of euros, namely 100, 200, 300, 500, we must not forget that in these households, which has increased by name, EUR 500 or 600, the tax at the same time decreased their wages, that is to say, becoming poorer, has been unemployed and thus had zero incomes and increased their tax by 337%'. So we need to take into account the monetary growth, the'monetarisation' of taxation and the intangible conditions which have burdened the situation of the taxpayer, unemployment and the reduction of wages. In short, the German report concludes: 'Finally, it is a impression that non-private households have lost 86% of their total income in the crisis, while only 16% to 20% of the wealthier families.' I'll put it in the Minutes at the end. There are signs and monsters in this Europe. We should all be aware of the same information and knowledge. As far as the black economy in Europe is concerned - because we are also accused of many bills and tax ways and codes of books and data and tax codes - we are trying to collect the blacks - there is a table that you will see some blue peks, which are very high. What is the economy in Europe, which has the most "black" of money? Italy is the first to 420 billion euros in the near future. Germany, which teaches us, is second to 399 billion black economy. One and a half Greek GDP is the german economy that's coming to teach us lessons. Third country is France, with 280 billion paradoxes, and Greece, the bad child, comes very low, in about 40 billion paradoxes. I will put this before you, because it is important when we talk to Europe about truths and when they talk to taxpayers that Greeks are the poor payers who need Mrs Valavani, Mr Stathakis, Mr Kammenos, Mrs Lyberakis, Mrs Lyberakis - I say the people I know - or Mr Mavragans - to bring laws to collect money, because we are cheaters, they should look at the houses. These are official elements of the European Union, EUROSTAT and the OECD. We were also told that we lived and lived above the permitted or reasonable limits, that we lived above our capabilities. The result of all was the memorials, the intercept of incomes and the destruction, which was said by the German institution, in the pockets and in the lives of the Greeks. Here is a table showing who is richer in Europe by family, that is, wealth by family. Greece is in the eighth place. The richest are viewed as Luxembourgians with 398,000 family value. We call it a fortune. We mean not only money, but plots, houses, cars, etc. The richest are the Luxembourgs? Do you know what Luxembourg is? Do you know who is in Greece the first investor today to talk with data from EUROSTAT? Who's investing in Greece? The foreign investor, number 1 in foreign investment in Greece, is Luxembourg. Have you seen anyone on a Luxembourg channel who's come to make investments in Greece? We've been given 7.5 billion investments. Where'd that money go? You know? Real estate. Is there a question? There is. There are no Luxembourg businessmen. There are companies that launder money. Don't get to know each other again in this country. I say that again, we'll be serious. Luxembourg was charged with Lux Leaks. Google you all know internet. Beg and see what happens and how they become not triangular, but square and round and whatever you want company charges. Luxembourg cannot at present have its GDP fourteen times as active banks and cut Cyprus two and a half times GDP. So they teach us lessons and bring us preconceived facts. We have been made poor and have been forced to save the Greek citizen and this country, which is being held captive by foreign law and tax law. I am not afraid, and that is the terminology we need to use: it is just right. Mr. Samaras has himself spoken of a forced loan. Mr Provopoulou said we were charged - take note of the verb - 240 billion. What does it mean to us? They cut us a costume of 240, "we got it somewhere, you get it". For 77 billion debts, 2 billion in regulation, said Mr. Harris Theocharis. Why are only 2 billion served from 77? Because the world is poor. We don't have to run an intelligence test in this House. The world is poor. He doesn't have to pay. The solution is brought by the bill, and we must all support it from alpha to omega, despite its weaknesses - these will be corrected, I am sure - because there is a Greek project to discuss first. I have also insisted on articles on Bankruptcy Law and Bankruptcy Law to a natural person. Bankruptcy act, which is in too many countries - not to analyse it at the moment - can go to a natural person. I'm talking about Article 99. Do you want it to be American Article 111? Let's say it somehow. There are too many solutions and we need to think intelligently and creatively, because otherwise the economy and the situation in which we are found is not helpful. I will also leave a comparative table for the Memorandums: Greece - Portugal - Ireland. Our unemployment from 12% in 2010 went to 26%. Similarly, in Portugal from 12% went to 14% and in Ireland from 13.9% to 11%. He fell. The economic cost of labour in us fell by 12%, only 3% in Portugal and 2.6% in Ireland. I'll leave that. And why am I saying it? Anyone who sits down and reads the thousands of pages of the IMF reports will see that they say they do not understand the IMF because, while calling for 11% adjustment measures to GDP -11 x 200 = 22 billion, the government of Papandreou in front of him with Minister Papaconstantinou took 18%. So he gave 7%, took 14 billion meters horizontally and destroyed the economy without anyone asking for it. Why? Because it was the easy solution in the excel box. It is easy to find a horizontal wage which I will cut, rather than tax or find out who has the blacks and who is not taxed in Greece. Or I don't want to tax. Because these figures say they taxed the private sector rather than the public at wages and everything else. Why do I think this arrangement will work? We hear too much about whether it works or whether we should support it or whether we should have a question about whether it will work. We should all know and understand it and realize that it is the first time that we have a Greek project written by Greeks. I do not want you to forget that three months ago, we were not Members of Parliament, we did not have the chance to be MPs, but the Members who were then Members - ready, urgent bills on national need and priority, almost like the assignments we made to Olympiada. I remember the assignments we didn't have time to do, which cost us 25 billion. It will also be checked for them, but with urgency, the most athletic measures that have ever been passed on to a democratic country in the world have been passed. I think it'll work, because it's Greek. And I am not ashamed - because I am a member of the Independent Greeks, I support the SYRIZA Government - to congratulate Mr. Tsipras - and we must not be ashamed to say it - who is the only Prime Minister - I have not seen this anywhere - who brought them to a table as Presidents of the States and said to them 'Lords that is, I cannot take memorial measures, I cannot go into austerity'. So why don't we say congratulations to Mr. Tsipras? And if Mr Samaras did so, congratulations I would say to him, Mr Papandreou and Mr Venizelos, and to Mr Theodorakis, anyone. We must not be ashamed of the success of the Greek Government. It's the first time that blood has been spilled and we've all been up late and more lenders are up. For who? For us. They hadn't done it and had never lived that in their lives. Finally, this bill is given - I will use two other terms - the end of the 'tax guerrilla war'. Mr Theocharis who has just entered and met, but the thousands of circulars in the way they were - yes with forced law, yes with urgency - were for compromising reasons, not for creating a tax system, but for the purpose of collecting Mr Theocharis. Mr Stournara's programme is why it was. Finally, in the 'taxi guerrilla warfare'. The taxpayer is not our enemy, the Greek citizen is not our enemy. He's a friend and a partner. That's how we should see him. We will not stand in a guerrilla war around the corner, to see the taxpayer pass, to shove him one, to say "Take ten!". And then what's going on? We economists know that. When you have this tactic, what happens to the guerrilla war? He's getting a lot better than you're after. We've all seen 'Rambo', haven't we? Everyone's trained. The taxpayer is trained, trained by the way you hunt him and he'll hide better and you won't find him taxing. Is that what we want? Oh, no. We want the Greek bill that comes first to the Greek Parliament to honor Greek democracy and make our friend the taxpayer, bring him together. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me, Mr President, ten more seconds. Finally, the 'taxed ambush'! They were 'tax ambushes'. This government will not be the 'Rambo' of the Germans. We want the Greek citizen to be with us, build relationships of trust, not hunt him like an animal in the jungle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-two students and students and two teachers attending from the 1st Municipal School of Thessaloniki. Dear friends, the House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] PASOK Special Speaker Koutsoukos Ioannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] I will not repeat what I said about the nature of the bill as urgent. I just have to note that the title of the bill has nothing to do with its content. We are not talking about a bill aimed at restarting the economy. We are discussing a bill on how to collect some money from late payments. You are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that relaunching the economy depends on wider factors. It is about the country's strategic reference framework and where we are today. And as you would have seen, as a result of the Prime Minister's meeting yesterday with distinguished members of the community of our partners, Europeans, the result is that we are going back to where we were a month ago. In other words, we are returning to the Eurogroup's decision on 20 February. We lost a whole month during which they put everything in our place. There's no investment. There's nothing going on in the economy. There's full insecurity and uncertainty. See what happens with the deposit outflow in the last few days from the banks. The government was again committed yesterday to progressing the reforms. We are also waiting for them - because we are positive about the reforms - to come here to the House, to be practiced by Mr Varoufakis, not to be air words and ideas reports, to discuss and promote them. This depends on the resumption of the Greek economy, on the creation of a stable framework that gives the sense of certainty and security to Greek citizens, to all those who are interested in operating the real Greek economy. At the moment, the Greek economy is being drained from the last available insurance funds and banks, to meet our obligations towards international lenders, and the government said it will do so by itself and that it has no need for doses and is now begging for a dose or part of a dose. This does not deny the nature of the bill. We said that we would vote on the bill at first, not to prove our patriotism, as Mr Tsipras called on us yesterday before leaving for Brussels, because we do not allow anyone to question it. I would like to inform you that the previous hundred-dollar bill has voted for it, despite the fact that our partners have had many objections and objections and we will vote again, because, as I say, it is essentially an extension of the existing arrangements. The bill is based on the principle, according to which the previous one was formulated, an effort that we as PASOK started in the summer of 2014, because we had seen the need for a favourable approach to all those who had suffered the consequences of the crisis, and which we finally managed to bring to Parliament in October 2014. What included that bill, ladies and gentlemen? It included first the possibility for anyone who pays one-off their dues to save fines and surcharges, subtracting 100%. This also provides for the bill that the government has brought us today. What was that bill foreseeing? It provided for the possibility of adjusting their debts to hundreds of instalments. This also provides for the bill that the government has brought us today. It had a escalation from 100 doses to ninety, with a reduction in increments, which is about the same, with a relative improvement - I have to recognise it. In other words, in the ninety instalments our bill gave a 20% final discount on fines and surcharges, the bill now brought by the government gives 30%. It also has a more positive treatment of interest rates from 4.25% to 3%. It is a positive provision. We could have discussed it then, if the government had proposed it. It has a more positive reference to the possibility of including arrears of withholding taxes. I note, ladies and gentlemen, that VAT is a non-taxable tax, that is to say, someone who has collected it and instead of giving it to the fund, has it in his own fund, whether for his own needs or for another job. In any case, the government regulates this despite the fact that there could be too many objections that the retained taxes instead of coming to the Treasury are being used elsewhere. Of course, it also makes the government's bill on the one million-dollar plaque. This plaque had also been challenged by us in October. We were told then by the relevant ministers that it was a matter of little. Now, then, it comes without any precondition. And I say: are these the poor of the crisis those with arrears of over one million, ladies and gentlemen? These are very few. Many of them have taken the seas and are doing business in Switzerland! I think that certain conditions need to be in place in connection with their assets and liabilities, or, in any case, there should be an authorised provision for the responsible party to check whether he makes statements and has assets. The curator can find them through a button. E9 and tax declarations are a very easy case. What matters, however, is that we will not undermine this arrangement as the SYRIZA officials did, the Civic Opposition at the time, when we tabled the bill. What have they done, ladies and gentlemen? They filed a seismic bill. If you look at the signatures of the proposed bill, they belong to the current government officials. So what did they say then? They said, "Don't pay. There is a new regulation of our own, which will cut the burden and the disgrace of your debt," such as what Mrs Constantopoulos is doing now with the burdensome and disgraceful. Therefore, on the basis of the three-member committee they have proposed, no one has to pay. From the election result it turned out that the world was listening much more then to SYRIZA than to the previous government. Thus, we saw the result of the receipts in December and January to be demolished and at the moment to have a loss of income of about 2 billion. We will therefore vote on these regulations because they are moving on to our own besieged, on the road that we started and which you have denounced. We will also be voting for the regulations on late payments in insurance that are on the same side, despite the fact that there are many differences with late payments in the public sector and we do not understand why. They make it more difficult to implement these arrangements. The regulation that was in place at the n. 4305 was approximately identical to the public and insurance funds debts. I have proposed to the Minister responsible to examine the extension of the regulation until the end of March. I also address to the appropriate Deputy Minister of State, Mr Valvani. There's no need for the setting to go until the end of May. We need revenue. So let us shorten it and bring the regulation to the end of April. We could also propose to the regulation for the hundreds of fifty instalments, to certain legal persons and cooperative organisations and others, to include other cases of private and public law organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the contentious issues on which we have called into question and the urgency of the bill. The question of "triangular transactions" is a major issue that has dealt with the tax mechanism and the Greek society for many years. There are reports of who favours who. The debate on this problem must be done at ease, with the possibility of hearing bodies and experts, in order to make good and serious decisions. What is the government doing today? It changes according to the existing provisions. Obviously, there were huge problems in the obligation to make the difference advance. Mr. Stathakis improved it. It took three months to return the tax. I appreciate the intention of Mrs Valvanie to improve this by adopting a ministerial decision setting out the terms and conditions whereby companies will be able to deduct expenditure - carried out with companies established abroad, outside companies, the so-called offshore, the so-called tax havens - and therefore we are prepared to vote on it. But look, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, where we are. The issue came up last week, when Mr. Solulis from here, the Step was re-ordering us because we went through the regulation by which we gave the fuel trading companies 1.2 billion and was not ashamed to say both the names of the companies and the bosses. So I come to say that this regulation that we are voting on today differs from that regulation that we have voted on and for which you have denounced us? What does the arrangement that we have voted on, those who have voted and have been convinced? In addition, it says, if it is real and ordinary transactions carried out through stock exchanges or organised stock markets, within the range of transaction day prices. In other words, you're giving the tax authority the opportunity to consider whether the transaction really is true. It is precisely what the regulation we are voting on stipulates, precisely what Mrs Valvain said. Consequently, or Mr. Army and SYRIZA will apologise for having made a mistake or will now bring another arrangement to get back the 1.2 billion that told us that we were happy. He left the Chamber, Mr. Friend. However, because this arrangement had been made at the front of the newspaper "SYNEY" for a very long time in the battle by SYRIZA against interests, I would like to tell him not to put it again because it will be the mock of the losers. It'll be the mock of the losers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u165	You didn't vote for her personally! And you did well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u166	I come to the arrangements for the Coastal Attica Front company. There was a debate yesterday in the committee and it was revealed that the government has brought in regulation which, as I said in quote, is suspicious. And I am not referring to Mrs Valavani, whose intentions and honesty I am not in any way questioning. I refer to those who promoted it to get this far. It has been demonstrated by the debate that this company has legal ties with some of the great interests that SYRIZA was bailing against. So correct the arrangement seven times, I believe with the signature of Mr Shayias - because Mr Shayas is already involved as Secretary-General of the Government - and because, apparently, the majority of members of the SYRIZA were not persuaded, he finally withdraws the arrangement for the 'State Front' and incorporates it into the EBRD, which - listen to the miracle! - incorporates it into the fund that will be created in the future! What fund will be created in the future, ladies and gentlemen? At the moment, there's the S.H.I.E.L.D. There's no other fund. Bring the regulation for the property fund that will be created in the future, tell you what we did by creating the Generation Solidarity Fund, in which we put the proceeds from natural gas and the exploitation of hydrocarbons, and find out exactly what we are going to do and where the money will go. Otherwise, it is an earlier figure and we do not understand the feasibility of the abolition, today we are talking about, of the Public Property Company, to which much of the public and private property of the State belongs, and I would ask you to see that it is possible from the existing provisions to grant them to municipalities and to exploit them. You will stop the exploitation of these properties from tomorrow, since you merge them and assign them to the fund being set up. This is a fundamental objection to us and we will insist on it. That is why we have said that the relevant provision should be withdrawn. I now come to the ILO provision. Does not a wider debate need to be held on preventive control? What is preventive control? Is Mr Varoufakis' called cocooners the preventive control or the possibility of the ILO developing and making effective preventive control? I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that as a result of a duplication between the Secretary-General present here at the time and Mr Stasinopoulou, preventive control was essentially not working. Ladies and gentlemen, the ILO is not a mechanism of purpose, neither economic nor political. We agree with the regulation, so that the ILO's information reports can be converted into audit reports and that the taxpayers can testify to the taxes, because otherwise this will not happen. But this is not the way it is treated. In any case - in order not to waste time, since I have to conclude and be consistent - I would like to say to you that we will vote in principle on the bill for the reasons I have explained, we will vote on the articles relating to the due date and the roll-call vote. We will vote on the articles on the Minister's powers, which the New Democracy disputes. The relations, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with the troika, must be settled by the government. As the government suggests, we have no reason to get involved in this matter. To find each other. They rule, they negotiate, they agree. We will also be voting on the provisions of Article 21 for the reason that I explained to you and we will insist to the end in our view on the abolition of the EBRD. I also have a reservation on the provisions concerning the obligation of farmers to make statements every quarter, instead of every year provided for by the law. I conclude with these thoughts. We shall also make them at the time of the vote. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Deputy Minister for Health and Social Security, Mr. Army, has asked for the floor to present a legislative improvement. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u168	Yesterday, I was asked for some improvements to the provisions of Articles 28-34 of the draft law on the settlement of debts in the insurance funds, Mr Athanasios Petrakos, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Kammenos and others. The first improvements requested are not Mr Brutsi, who is next. So I'm referring to the rest of the three. I am therefore making the following legislative improvements: Firstly, we give the opportunity to make arrangements for those who have become due on 1-2-2015. We do it 'which became late on 2-3-2015', because 1-3-2015 is Sunday. Therefore, Mr Petrakos, Mr Kegeroglu, Mr Kammene, we are giving the opportunity to regulate the contributions which were not paid for February, as you requested. Secondly, Mr Brutsis, but also other Members - particularly Mr Brutsis, but also Mr Koutsoukos earlier in his speech - have asked for more dose scales with the corresponding deletion of increments. In consultation we have had today with both the CEAO and the relevant departments, we accept the proposal and make the scales from three, five. So the scales are as I shall read them accurately. The first category is: If they pay the payments to the insurance funds one-off, the cancellation of the surcharges is 100% of fees, interest, etc., with the clarification - Mr Brutsis, you were right, I had it in the bill, as I told you - that fines for evasion or breaches of labour law are not deleted. This is clearly stated in the bill itself. These increments have entered precisely because they owe them. Secondly, if they choose to make the adjustment from one (1) to thirty-six (36) doses, they have 80% deletion of increments. Thirdly, if they choose to make adjustments with thirty-seven (37) to fifty doses (50), they have 70% deletion of increments. Fourthly, if they choose to make adjustments from fifty one (51) to seventy two (72) doses, they have 60% deletion of increments. Fifthly, if they choose the maximum, the hundred doses, 50% of the surcharges have been deleted because of the reasons I mentioned earlier. So in essence the proposal that has been accepted. We could set more scales, Mr Brutsi, but you know that both at the Ministry and at the IKA make it easier for them to have a smaller number, because the information application will be made more quickly, so that by 30 April everyone can get into these settings, and at least by the end of next week at the end of next week, the information arrangement, which will be applied to be made electronically. I will also mention one last. You told me about the obligation we have put in the bill that to join the arrangement they should have paid the current contribution as well in February. That and the obligation are changing and entering the current contribution of March. And that's what's going on to give us a better chance of getting in. This is not Mr Brutsi's comment that he's looking at me. He was all the rest of the Members I mentioned. Finally, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu made a very good point that we must put all kinds of agricultural cooperatives in and with new legislation. In cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development today, we also put the agricultural cooperatives proposed by him yesterday. I am making the legislative improvements, Mr President, to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendances from the 1st General School of New Machinery Thessaloniki. Dear friends and dear friends, the House welcomes you and wishes you good progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I would like the personal speech on the report Mr Koutsoukos has made before me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u171	You want the floor on staff? Will you explain why you're asking for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Koutsoukos earlier made a reference to me on a subject and I want to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u173	Soon, if you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u174	I won't need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u175	Thank you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u176	And then and now SYRIZA as a whole fights against the great interests. If he is missed by Mr. PASOK's representative, I would say that in this bill there is Article 21, which relates to the advance taxation of intra-group transactions, in order to hit a large bay of corruption and tax evasion in our country. I would expect the PASOK to vote at least on Article 21 of this bill and not to resort confusingly to various comparisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u177	PASOK is voting for it, Mr. Friend. You haven't followed the conversation!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, please speak. I'd like to answer that. He posed personal problems and when such a matter arises, we usually respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u179	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u180	With the economy next year, I have explained why we are going to vote on Article 21. Do you want me to repeat?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u181	No, we got it! Thank you very much Mr Kutsuko, he confirms what we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Potami Parliamentary Group, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, the work of politicians must be the truth. Nothing is better than dealing with public opinion by stepping on demagogy. Even if he is at risk of his popularity, he must be beneficial and support the interests of the country. These are the words of Eleftherios Venizelos that he died seventy - nine years ago in Paris. Really, demagogy, popularity! Listen to the great Cretan, gentlemen of the coup d'état, because I think you need him, after you have been lured into verbalism and demagogues. Today we are discussing a draft law entitled 'Regions for the relaunching of the economy'. How much does the title of the draft law have to do with the contents of the draft law, Ministers? What is it that prevents you from putting real titles on your proposals? Why don't you say ‘Structuring arrangements for debt settlement to cover urgent financial needs’? Why in your first humanitarian crisis law, which had four all and all articles - badly written, in our view, and handed over - to deal with poverty and had another thirty-six articles that strengthen the client state, why did you give the title 'Esolution of the humanitarian crisis' to this law? Beyond all the other things, you will also be called by the Members of the future and the researchers of the future who will look for the provision that allows 15 more general secretaries to be recruited and will find that they are hidden behind the humanitarian crisis. You'll tell me: does the words matter? I think words matter. The relaunch of the economy is much more serious and painful than the fragmentary collective measures or even the relief measures of the citizens they owe to the state. The relaunch of the economy requires deep and rapid reforms, sectors, changes in the state and the economy, changes that, as the first two months of governance show by SYRIZA and ANEL, many of the ministers are turned away like the devil. And I ask myself very seriously: How can a draft law on exceptional tax arrangements be considered to be reformed? And yet, you have said so to our partners. And you said that it is the fourth major reform. And then you tell me why they no longer believe you in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs real changes and reforms. There will be no relaunch of the economy without banks that finance healthy entrepreneurship and households. But which banks? I am not only talking about the current situation that banks live with the ELA's 'injections'. Even if we return to the former liquidity pooling regime by the European Central Bank, the systemic banks are alive - dead, with almost half of them loans not served. So what do we have to do about it? What is the major reform to be carried out? We consider that the huge private debt of citizens and, above all, businesses to the public, insurance agencies and banks should be addressed radically and globally. It is the big bomb on the foundations of the economy, that is, the internal and huge private debt of 180 billion euros, an annual GDP. We have been proposing for months to create a strong, independent private debt management organisation. It should involve the public, banks, European financial institutions and private individuals. Its administration should be strong, experienced and independent from the state and banks. This body should undertake the restructuring of non-performing loans and non-performing liabilities of undertakings to the State. Transparency, social criteria, public interest. The state and state should lay the rules: Protection of first residence, deletion of small debts up to a limit for which the debtor has paid the capital and interest. And finally, we must end the robbery entrepreneurship of the "logues", the entrepreneurship of the interlocutors. Some or they should either pay or lose their business. Not the money outside and the loans inside. Dead companies should be liquidated in order to recover banks part of their debts. New investors take on as many of these companies as they can be made viable. We want a clean process which, if properly done, will introduce healthy rules, attract investors, create tens of thousands of new jobs and bring revenue to the public. At the same time, the banks, even if they need another recapitalisation with the 11 billion that are kept for this purpose, will once again start lending the real economy. This yes, it will be an important development reform, which will truly contribute, together with other changes, to restarting the real economy. We are therefore waiting for Mr Stathakis' answer to this particular proposal. Informally, Italy is also on the verge of agreeing with the institutions of the Eurozone to create an equivalent body, which will manage 200 billion of the red loans of the Italian banks. Ladies and gentlemen, the only way to successfully negotiate the current situation and escape today's deadlock is a large and radical change programme that will bring investment, growth and reduction of unemployment. He'll modernise the state, the administration of justice, take the training out of the stagnation. That's our big idea. In such a direction, it is worth working together and feeling proud and dignified. There must also be the conflicts with our partners and creditors, that is to say, to secure European funds to finance this programme. [[At this point the closing bell of the party president's speaking time is ringing The Potami]] I think there must be some mistake in time. I was under the impression that I had 15 minutes at my disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u184	No, in today's sitting there are eight minutes for the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u185	The man didn't speak the last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u186	The President is comfortable to speak. I'm just saying what time is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u187	He's talking about the previous bill, but also about the next bill we're bringing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, continue. You have the comfort of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u189	Do you see that in the next I won't take the floor if it's Mrs. Constantopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Stathakis has said what you're saying now. Some.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u191	So you agree, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u192	So I said that conflicts should take place with our partners and lenders in the following points: To ensure that European funds are used to finance the programme that I have just described, to settle the debt, to stop the stiff austerity, to show that we are the country that wants investment, with irreversible chasing of tax evasion through a strong and independent revenue collector. You may have seen the recent investigation of an independent German institute with the signatures of Tasos Yannitsis and Stavros Paintingakis. What's he saying? "The tax burden in the years of the crisis increased by 337%, while at the same time the maximum economic levels were only 9%. " Ladies and gentlemen, we are also talking with Europe, and we believe that if we promote a bold and contemplated programme of structural change, we can reach an agreement, even a zeroing for two years of obligation on primary surpluses. This would provide developmental and social resources for the universal application of the guaranteed minimum income we are proposing. I have had the opportunity to present these views to the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, together with other proposals on the country's progress. It seems from the government's progress to date or I have not been able to convince him or the reformist forces within the government are much stronger than the reformist arguments. The signals that emit key government ministers are backward, backward, and now, with the background of last nationalist pistols. Excellence is a relic, and we didn't realize it. You're the ones who realised it. The international prestige scientists who came to the IOIs to offer were naive and the public does not need reform but only by recruitment. We are a country with a past waste and the party state wants new structures and not new recruitments, gentlemen of the government. Privatisation and foreign investment have become something of a national betrayal. Great declarations on the salvation of all of Europe, at the same time that everyone in Europe sees the country misled. We advise Ireland, when people - who had a memorandum - managed, as you would have seen in the newspapers yesterday, to borrow at a negative interest rate. Bonds at 0,1 negative interest rate. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has left the Eurogroup's even medium-sized agreement untapped. He did not succeed in giving impetus to relations with partners. We have wasted valuable negotiating capital, to change names and titles, not the essence of things and the correlations. No trouble, of course, because as the polls show, 70% of the citizens believe that the troika lives and reigns. However, some in the government consider that they are carrying out a patriotic duty to hide troikas in hotels and garages. With their previous status, we were paying the hotels, the nights, that is. With today's regime, we pay them the rooms at the hotels to attend meetings. We have chosen to declare the war in Germany by attacking ghosts of Nazism and other unacceptable claims that no one in the rest of Europe accepts. We tried to get involved in the constant national redress claims with the current negotiations threatening me to confiscate German institutions and threatening - listen, listen! - with jihadists missions in Berlin. What they succeeded, of course, in devising the new German-German Venetta was to strengthen the positions of the German circles seeking to leave the Eurozone. The result was the greatest isolation in Greece unless you do not read the European newspapers. Allies need, gentlemen of SYRIZA and not new enemies. Patriarchal policy is not to build enemies to cover your weaknesses. The Prime Minister said this morning that he was optimistic and we should share it. So let them fall and let the crowns of ethnicism be put aside. Let the government show that it has a reform agenda and intends to lead the country forward with major changes. It is, I think, the last chance and should not be lost, because today the country is at point zero. The continuation of this policy leads us with mathematical accuracy to the great deadlock. Already the state stays without cash and the banking system is almost dead. The private sector experiences absolute economic suffocation. Thousands of workers lose their jobs or are now paid only against them. So there is no more time to lose. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has no right to drive the country into a so-called heroic crash. There's no heroic defeat! Losing is humiliation and calamity for the citizens. SYRIZA won because of the world's disobedience to the old political system. And the mandate he has given, however, is to lead the country on a development path in the Eurozone, seeking a good agreement, an honest compromise with our partners. Every thought different to "heroic defeat" is misinterpretation and violation of the popular mandate. I want to be clear. Many recently from the wider government camp are going out and talking indirectly about bankruptcy and exiting the euro. A Member who has permeated abroad even gives us advice on how to get out of the euro, how to make generalised blocks, how to get the drugs in cards. It describes a nightmare, occupational image that the citizens will experience from such a solution. We know, of course, that the drachma lobby also has supporters in the oligarchy in Greece who dream of looting in the body of a bankrupt country. Similar views and pursuits exist in German circles, as well as in other countries within and outside the Eurozone. ‘How much do you want to leave?’ Now, Mr. Shoeble asks the ministers, they've been ready for some time, and there's some people here who are talking about it. I will not say any more at the moment. It is certain for us that there is no way out of the Eurozone without leaving the European Union, with this causing too much suffering. And then we'll see what a humanitarian crisis means. Really. I mention it because some fools, even in here, wonder at times, what worse we will get with the drachma. They have parallels with the bankruptcy of '32 when the country's food adequacy was at 70%, and now it's at 35%. They say themselves, the foolish ones, that exports will be strengthened by the drachma, when we know that Greece's exports are entirely dependent on imports of raw materials, additives or packaging. The nightmare will be like this: In 20 minutes all ATMs will have dried up, the tails in the banks will be endless and after an hour the banks...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u193	What are you talking about? Are you all right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u194	This is all relaunching the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u195	What kind of danger is that? What are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u196	Allow me and you will understand, for one more reason, why I say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Georgiadis speaks or does you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Varoufakis speaks. You're not a reader.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Georgiadis speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u200	Be patient. The nightmare will be like this: In 20 minutes the ATMs will be dried. The tails in the banks will be endless and after an hour the banks will download the rolls.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u201	You're with the old one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u202	The economy would collapse. The European Central Bank would withdraw its support and the banks would reopen after a few months or years. The country would have been submerged in absolute darkness. Poverty would invade 80% of households.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u203	How long have we been talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u204	The clock would be back many decades. And because you're in a hurry and you're not merciful, I'm telling you that it's not my words, it's Yani Varoufakis' words. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] It is his text that accurately describes in protagon.gr what it will be like to Greece of the drachma dreaming of some people of the ANE - SYRIZA coexistence. So read your ministers. You will tell me: 'How are you, my Yannis, not to live this nightmare?' And I'll agree. The government is often as if a nuclear weapon were being entangled, and it has not learned to work either. However, let me not continue the criticism, because, as Breech said, 'Let us not be so critical, at least yet'. Because what's important is saving the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u205	For Brussels, tell us. What happened last night? That's why tell us where it's topical.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Philie, you can take the floor later, as a parliamentary representative, and comment, answer. Let the President finish his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u207	Listen, Mr. Philly...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u208	Firstly, he speaks 20 minutes and, secondly, he is in danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Petrakos, the same goes for you. You are a Parliamentary representative and you are entitled to take the floor, to comment and answer. Please, let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u210	We therefore ask the government to put an end to the general declaration of love for Europe and to reach an agreement directly with the partners. We defend the Eurogroup agreement of 20 February and we are here to support the reforms. And you will allow me to say that it is not just us to support the reforms. The great majority of Parliament will support fundamental reforms, either because some have understood their mistake or because some are afraid of the time when the anger of society will erupt. So grab the chance. Change the books you have in front of you. Leave the dictionaries and get the job! In a few days we're celebrating March 25th. Only increasing our national income can help us as a nation, but in order to make all the necessary changes, we must believe in our potential. "We must stop proclaiming to everyone that we are the poor. We must in every way seek to increase our national income, dedicate ourselves to a more electoral, fair, operational structure of the state mechanism. We must first of all become a creative people, a productive people." Again Eleftherios Venizelos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Evangelos Venizelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, it is being discussed in the urgent procedure - yet another innovation for SYRIZA - a bill which invokes as its beginning the relaunch of the economy. I wonder, then, whether the House today is going to vote on something that is really about the economy and its resumption, or whether it is not aware of the context in which this bill is moving, in which it will introduce synergy measures to counter the government's cash anxiety, which it itself has caused by sending contradictory signals to the citizens about their tax behaviour. The bill is therefore not about the economy and what we are doing today with urgency, in fact, completely contradicts what happened last night and today at dawn in Brussels, with the so-called mini-stage summit, which Mr Tsipras took part in with the heads of the main institutions of the European Union and the two crucial European players, the German Chancellor and the French President of the Republic. I would like, in good faith, to ask the Members of the majority of the SYRIZA and the ANELs: What is the impression of what happened yesterday late today in Brussels? Was it a political success? Has a political negotiation been conducted and the country won something? Have we clarified the creative ambiguity of the Eurogroup's decision of 20 February for the benefit of the country? Have you read the joint statement of the Presidents of the three European institutions? Have you read it in the full original text? What happened is the certification that we lost a whole month, that today, 20 March, we confirm the framework agreed on 20 February. And in the meantime, the real economy has been abandoned, the revenues fall short, the banks are melting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u213	You guys are talking about them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u214	...and the country is negotiating out of a worse position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u215	You challenge the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Petrako, you're worried today!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u217	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u218	What happened this month, like every week, every day, what is it? Is this a game with the winning time or the lost time? What's going on? What is happening is, unfortunately, that we are finally blind and the majority are self-smoking, using a dual language without result. Because, of course, constantly saying other things outside and other means do not lead anywhere. The dilemma, ladies and gentlemen, is existent, hard and insurmountable: Or you're going to break and you're enjoying it, and you're enjoying it, because you're living your own "Kugie" but you don't have a mandate from society to do it or follow the path of responsibility and political costs, but there you don't have the parliamentary majority to do it, because you don't just convince the electorate, you're also convinced that you're going to do something else. What's the other, the third? Split? Where's the spreading to? The country is really plundering. It is becoming increasingly at a lower level of real economic potential and that reduces our negotiating capacity, because we have lost the three main advantages: the primary surplus, the positive growth rate and the strong banking system. Mr. Tsipras wanted a political negotiation. Did he get it? What did he receive as an answer? In reply he received: "Get the technical steps to be welcomed to Athens, to discuss with the Brussels Group politics, namely the institutions, namely the Troika, in Brussels and then go back to the Eurogroup to make the final decision". Is that political negotiation and political success? Today's announcement by the Ministry of Finance that it is extremely happy, why will it facilitate the presence of the technical scales in Athens and await their text, is something positive? Mr Tsipras said early this morning: 'We will not accept the fifth evaluation'. What technical tiles do, what is the troika, what is it? Isn't that an evaluation? On what basis is the evaluation carried out? On the basis of the state of the Greek economy and the Government's real intentions to follow a specific framework. So it is the evaluation procedures and this assessment, of course, leads to the Greek ownership of reforms. What does that mean? Does it mean that Greece will choose whatever reforms it wants? No, it will propose, the Eurogroup will adopt and ownership of reforms means a policy commitment that they will be promoted. And what does yesterday's announcement say? We expect a full list of concrete reforms as soon as possible. So the infamous seven reforms of Mr Varoufakis with the hooded traitors, gambling, are neither complete list nor specific. Come on again, man, from the beginning! That means punishment, I make you write the memorandum yourself. And all this will then lead to the Eurogroup and then the European Central Bank, which awaits the Eurogroup's decision to change - as it must - its attitude to the Greek banking system. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, what was achieved yesterday by the Prime Minister at the high political level meeting in relation to the financial framework? What is the target for 2015? Where does this bill and everything else come from? Where do we aim at the end of this year in terms of primary surpluses? With the International Monetary Fund, from which we have to take the many instalments we have discussed? Was she here yesterday? It wasn't. All the other meetings were Mrs. Lagard. Because there have been many similar meetings. What about the International Monetary Fund? Is there a conversation about the debt yesterday at the dinner of the political leaders that Mr. Tsipras was involved in? And in the communiqué reference is made to debt? Without parametric changes in the debt, can we have a new macroeconomic framework and an improved target in relation to the primary surplus? Now will he go after last night to Berlin on Monday? Do what in Berlin? Now he's going to Berlin? It should have gone a long time before unnecessary fronts were created before we lost time, before we were able to benefit all over Europe, with a Minister of Finance, who is lying unwisely before the House yesterday about what he said about the so-called search for the previous extension of the main financial facility and is internationally typing, to use a merciful term. He's a tracker internationally. When I visited Mr Tsipras at the only and only meeting we had, before the Eurogroup of 20 February, I gave him a copy of the law which ratified the previous extension. There is in the Government Newspaper Sheet. I would also ask that it be recorded in the Minutes of today's debate. Because you have doubts as to whether this contract, signed by Mr Varoufakis in the absence of the House, refers to the memorandum, I have given him the original text, which of 2012, which is interconnected and one which refers to the other, to see the explicit references to the memorandum, the programme and the troika. These have been signed before you by Mr. Varoufakis. Furthermore, the unconditional delivery of the EUR 11 billion reserve of the Financial Stability Fund has been signed back to the EFSF so that now that banks need new recapitalisation, it is done under the terms of the new directive, unfortunately. In other words, there will first be an increase in share capital from the current shareholders, then bail - in, as specified by the directive, and then public participation through the Financial Stability Fund. Take these and read them, because on your behalf, but in your interpretation, Mr. Varoufakis signed them. [[At this point the President of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, Evangelos Venizelos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] I heard various "famous" commentators say, "But Mr. Tsipras did it, he sat them on a table". Even the official Prime Minister, the honorary President of the Council of State, Mr. Pikrammenos, has participated in a similar closed-cycle meeting for Greece. So is all Greek Prime Ministers. With them, however, the finance ministers also went with them. For one cannot go alone to negotiate with another six, without even recording what has been said, without a witness. Furthermore, the absence of Mr Shoeble and the other finance ministers, such as Mr Moscovisi, is not an advantage, it is a disadvantage, when everything is referred to in the Eurogroup, which Mrs Merkel forbidding the decision-making body, because that is what the circumstances say. Everything has been done unpreparedly, with one, in my opinion, incomprehensible naivety, manifested in the way in which you experience your late and impertinent philosophical pro-Americanism. "Now President Obama will get to fight Chancellor Merkel." And that's the vision of the radical left! That's how things work in the international association. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, what was the objective of yesterday's meeting? Give a political solution? Solutions are always political, but technically documented. A solution to the question of liquidity? How will it be given? Without a complete frame? What liquidity? Banks or government? Because when you take the bank's liquidity to meet public cash needs, you strangle businesses, employment, the real economy. What's the major target? To get the profits of the system from Greek bonds, the profits of the SNP program and the ANFA program. Do you know how we've taken these? Uploading February 21, 2012, lately as the Minister of Finance, I extracted them to improve the debt sustainability study. And now that's the big target? Have you ever thought that without the 2012 agreement, without the "cursed" PSI, without the "haircut" of debt and restructuring, would there be no commitment by the central banks of the Eurosystem to give us their profits from Greek bonds? Remember these, because that is the only argument for the debt. When you say 'final compromise', what do you mean as a government and a majority? Yes, an honest compromise. What do our partners say? "We want, based on our own perception, neoliberal, a Greece fiscally self-powered, productive, competitive." And we say, "No, we want to be late, we want you to keep us in your own lending, in the memorandum, in the margin, out of the market." That's a terrible compromise. Do you feel what "compatible" means? I agree to do a good job in my country, with a timeline. In other words, we said: 'We are going out of the memorandum, we are going to the preventive line, we are going back to the markets'. He had a logic. What's your logic? What's the timeline? Where's the country going? How long are we going to walk to the unknown, diffusion, the merodolite? A characteristic example: what was done on 20 February and expressed as 'creative ambiguity' by Mr Varoufakis is now being formulated as 'creative clarity' by Mr Tsipras, who went unaccompanied yesterday by Mr Varoufakis. So you can't do either front or backwards. This, unfortunately, also seems to be the way you handle regional issues. I told you before in this Chamber when you approached power and I tell you now and listen carefully. You've started flirting too early with strange arrangements. Too early!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u219	You, you're late?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u220	We were struggling here as PASOK and fighting. And whoever has something specific to say, say it. Unfortunately, we have only two months to say very specific things. And we have to say very specific things about the drachma lobby, to which Mr Theodorakis referred, to those who have taken the euro out and who have the damage inside and are waiting for a country of 'damaging' to buy it. Watch out, the game is too dangerous. And anyone who has also made commitments because of his support will at some point be asked to meet these commitments. We don't have a supporter. We don't have any commitments. We don't have any commitment! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And you'll see this here every day. The reality hurts you. But can I tell you something? I, too, support you because I believe that the vast majority of SYRIZA Members and ministers have no knowledge of reality. He's acting in good faith. It may be ideologically, it may be ideologically, but in good faith. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But there are also those who know the integrated plan. And I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the country is not just the economy. He's got other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. And it's over, because he keeps talking twice and twice as much time! It provokes and awesses!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u222	Do you realize what happens in the country these two months?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u223	Do you know what you're talking about and how long you've been talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u224	Do you feel the issue of security and the mind, the feeling of the Greek people? Occupation of the Law of Athens. Fishing of the Senate of the University of Thessaloniki. Continuous attacks on PASOK's unguarded offices, with no response from the police. Contrasts in relation to migration. And the invitation of the Prime Minister to speak at the official ceremony of the University of Athens in breach of academic traditions on March 25, resulted in the invitations addressed being cancelled, with Professor Olga Katsiaardis, who had prepared her speech and was invited to leave it to speak from the university's step for the first time. Is this something consistent with academic freedom?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u225	Why are you addressing us? Are we cultivating such things? Speak clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u226	You know, there is this form of dropping poisoning the sense of democracy and the rule of law. Does it not surprise you, ladies and gentlemen, that the showing presence of the President of the Parliament, of the President-in-Office at the seat of the President in all previous debates, does not surprise you? Why didn't he show up today? Today is the Vice-Presidents' day. Why has the Vice-Presidents suddenly become today? Why didn't he come? To show her disagreement on the urgency. To disagree with the government's initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u227	You're a great fantasy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u228	Case. Case of work. Only it's a case of cooperation. It's not a case of work. Try to think about this case of cooperation. Because it is also about you who have asked for one vote from the Greek people in the end. And now you need to explain how you use the mandate of the Greek people. These are the big issues in the country. And within it, of course, this draft law is also being put in place, which was a demonstration of power towards the partners, because there was no other reason to come to the vote on the urgent procedure. So, behind that, we saw the demonstration of power. We've seen a demonstration of power inside and full delivery in the negotiation. When we were negotiating, ladies and gentlemen, we were bringing results, bringing funding under the best possible conditions, bringing the loan's haircut. I told you in the previous parliamentary debate, I now tell you. Bring funding on just as good terms, to congratulate you. Bring a debt haircut for 1 euro, I'll congratulate you. But now what are you doing? Now what policy are you defending? Now in the name of what value do you give parliamentary battles? For the Coastal Front? For intragroup transactions? To listen to what is said, which is an attempt to consciously alter the language? But as has rightly been said, the language is our homeland, the language is the boundaries of our world, the language is the measure of our truth. And when the language changes, it actually changes the sense of the story we have. You won't make that happen. The effort is in vain, no matter what you do, no matter what you say. So we invite you to think wisely, responsibly, with a view to it. Do you think our own MPs, the 2009 Parliament or the 2012 Parliament, had other intentions than yours? They didn't want the best, the most philosophical, the most generous? Anyone want to vote hard? You are negotiating in 2015 with a primary surplus even small, with a positive growth rate after seven years of recession, with banks that are recapitalised and you cannot bring results. Do you think about what happened in 2009, in 2010, in 2012 with a colossal deficit, with an uncontrolled debt, with a banking system that only existed in practice? Think of the dilemmas of the MPs who sat on the majority seats then, how much you have cursed them, how much you have slandered them, how much you have spit them out! Haven't you ever wondered if you were fair or wrong? If you humiliated and offended people, political bodies, if what you did was honest, true?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, you must remember that you must respect the House and keep the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u230	It's time of truth and it's time to be responsible. And you will take over, - you want, you do not want, your responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction has the floor, Mr. Nikos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, as we go, we will not cover the procedure completely and correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u233	Everything is under control, Mr Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u234	Excuse me, but some things need to be said. I understand the need every two days or only a day for a political right that the President of the PASOK feels. I am not surprised by the time nor today, nor the day before, which was a whole forty-seven minutes, because I remember the incredible record of seventy-seven-six minutes of the submarines. In this sense, at least I was in the previous House, I have no such problems. Let us use as much time as it takes to get one's truth out. But is it possible to talk about bank liquidity, public liquidity, private debt, the problems that the economy now has, when it is clear that we entered with a debt - and you know it perfectly, it was the state debt - and our country did not have a bank problem, had no ‘toxic’ derivatives, nor a private debt problem - we all know that that is not what we all agree on? - and we go out - that is, we don't go out - after five years with three debts, what you described here? They were heard by the last guy. As far as GDP is concerned, private debt is now. The banking sector has been 'eaten', it has been swelled, it has been devastated and has a problem, and it has no problem getting into the crisis and at the same time our state debt has been launched. On this, which is a fact, figures, we say nothing and show the finger to a new government that came with another program and claims the other program? [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Second, is it possible to tell us about commitments, complication, dependencies? You all know and we all know in this Chamber that we have a lot of bad things, because we have not had experience of governance, power, other issues of a diluent course, you would say, to get where we arrived, weaknesses great, but we have at least one good, that there is no one from within or outside who will call us or tell us alone or collectively'may friend, leave it now, after that, since anyway.' [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There's no one. I hope - I say this quite rightly - that there will not be either in the near future or in the end. I am not saying that in the name of morality and the unambiguous Left and other bad ones, I say this in the sense of self-consciousness that all spaces have within them and from the crisis that we have passed as a country. From there on, that we consider our values to be unnegotiable, these are for our own audiences too. Did you hear either in this debate until 03.30' in the morning or in the papers that the Greek Minister of Finance sent out, or anything that has been done so far, about pensions, wages, taxation, insurance, austerity, wealth divestment, divestment of strategic sectors in the country? Bring them in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u235	You guys get the contract first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u236	This, do you not understand what a great real'red' line has been called over your days? Let's not call it that. Are there any concessions on these major issues that form the social issue in Greece? Social issues have emerged in the country after these five years on the basis of these headlines and indicators. Have we made any retreat to these things? Have we entered a function of commitments, measures, evaluations, memorandum commitments? I hope again that this government, we, this House, will not be able to sign or agree or implement things relating to these headings. So this is another unsolved reality on the ground of real issues and events, which we all know about. He said earlier, Mr President of the PASOK: 'At the dinner that Mr Tsipras participated in'. In fact, Mr. Pikrammenos was at dinner, and he was having dinner with you, etc. Do we understand what we're saying? Can't we identify some things? So much is our political petty blinding us? Can we not recognise that we have entered, after two months of hard negotiations with the back - in a real political negotiation field on current and burning issues? Can't we understand that, understand that? They say: "Game game with lost time, what happened?" I've heard that before. "A month," he says, "she's gone, we're back on 20 February." Some parrots used to call it in the middle of the morning. Really? Is that where we came back? Is that what you understand? Have we returned to the continuation of the memorandum, the evaluation, the fifth evaluation, the new measures? Is that what you got a month after what happened? And we're pro-American. Why? Why do we monitor, strengthen, hover the debate across the Atlantic and within Europe on the current, tough question, tough dilemma, namely the continuation or not of austerity, the development of an entrepreneurial policy, an entrepreneurial strategy, so that societies, peoples and workers breathe and so that the crisis can finally be paid by those who have created it and not by those who have suffered it, and because we have raised the issue - and it has been made publicly - and it is being discussed by 3.30 hours this morning. You didn't eat until 3:30 in the morning since 22:20. That's what someone would understand. The issue was raised "people above the profits", which was the forefront of the major movements against the neoliberal globalised current capitalist system at the beginning of the new century throughout Europe. Aren't those realities? That doesn't excite you, doesn't it? I'm not saying to be shocked. It is logical that they be shocked, say, us, forces of social, people who fought them. Let me make a comment on this for you, Mr President of the river. I am sorry and am surprised that you have joined a shock and awe policy with what you have said. And it's not a matter of intelligence, who said it - literary permission perhaps - at any other time of his life. You said it from the Step of the Parliament with listeners to the entire Greek people. So it's not like that. I fear that you are invoking a future nightmare for the country - and I am sorry to say - which will never come, on the one hand, to cover the total absence of your space from the movements and resistance in the past five years towards these terrible policies that created the social issue in Greece and, on the other, the total lack of criticism on the part of you in the real nightmare that the country lives today, as a result of the policies implemented by a parliament in which you did not have a presence as a party. Now with the people's vote you have been present as a party. He needs more attention. It's not a show over here, where you've really written history and positively, I'd say, appendix to your profession, like other professionals. This isn't a show. It's not clever. No one's playing with the nightmare in the country what's gonna happen to Armageddon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u237	Don't go crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, I would like some more time. It has been heard before - and I say this because a number of colleagues might not know it - about the surrender of 11 billion - do not repeat it, with tolerance - of the Greek Government of the CFSF, while it would be available for use by the Greek programme. I say again, don't repeat it. Call the administration of the CFSF or anyone else and discuss the total amount - I am not saying more - for the amount that has left at the beginning, for the amount that has been left today, for the possibility available, by means of specific regulations and under a specific agreement, part of this programme to return to the country and to be used. It is not things that may be put in the way of irresponsible. Remember that for months when we thought - and we believe - that 2 billion of them could be used for the banking sector, for the creation of the development bank, when you were supposed to have had the key to the CFS and the Bank of Greece, you were telling us from here: 'In any event. No way. These cannot be used from there. He's outside. If the order comes only from outside, it will be used.’ Today you forsake us if we lost any euros and did not understand it and tell us to take responsibility? Greece, our country, the government, will follow the reforms it selects, what we voted on the day before yesterday, what we are going to vote on today, and we welcome and welcome from the day before yesterday the fact that there has been broad and broad consensus - the other bills that have come, the other bills that are being prepared so that our people can stand by. In our commitments on the social issue and the reorientation of the country, we will be completely right. For two months you have said that the market has been 'done'. But our country is paying endlessly all the commitments you have made up to the funds, which Mr Venizelos' PSI had not agreed to go in to get paid in a haircut at that time. We paid it all. Why has the market been ‘conscious’? Because there were Syrians who went and took the money from the banks? No, of course not. "The market has gone away, because the country unilaterally - and I am closing, Mr President - has paid and paid up to the last minute of the euro, precisely to have credibility, solvency and internationally to go and say - "the unilateral effort on the part of the Greek Government is over, has time and deadline". [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I think that the agreement reached at 3.30 in the morning is very positive. This unilateral effort is ending. On the same tracks, solutions can be found together so that the liquidity can be restored and agreed in the summer and for the debt and for the productive reconstruction of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u242	Wait a minute, I'll make an announcement and I'll be happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u244	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis, there's a row. I think Mr Petrakos has asked for the floor from the previous President-in-Office. Isn't that right? To keep a row, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u245	You cannot give the floor to Mr Petrakos after Mr. Voutsi, we must have a rotation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u246	I am sorry, the previous President-in-Office had already asked for the floor for a reason. Mr. Petrakos, have you asked why you should speak properly or for any other reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u247	All right, I'll talk after Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Georgiadis, you will speak after the announcement I am about to make. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two teachers from the 1st General School of New Machinery Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Georgiadis, excuse me, but Mr. Theodorakis has asked for the floor on staff. Isn't that right, Mr. Theodorakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u249	I won't be misusing time, 30 seconds to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u250	You have a minute at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u251	I hope, Mr Voutsi, that you will not speak of the drachma nightmare - and I accept it - an indirect recommendation which you cannot make in the SYRIZA parties, that is to say, that it is a recommendation to your partners and to some of your new partners who are dreaming and practicing the drachma nightmare.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u252	Is that personal? What does man say? He spoke for so many minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Petrakos, we are entering a procedure for the placement of parliamentary representatives. I'm asking you again if you're going to take the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u254	After Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u255	Then I give the floor to Mr. Georgiadis. Come on, Mr. Georgiadis, in Step. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr Voutsi, I would like to speak very well and even though I am not used to it, I will try to speak with very low tone, because I believe that the days we are spending are extremely critical. It's time for an apology from both your space and a brave self-criticism. I start with the big one because you know, Mr Voutsi, the time has come and it is politically crucial that you tell your Members the truth, because you will need them in a few days to vote on measures and if you tell them what you have said to them before, there will be a political crisis in the country. The main and most critical - be careful - is that you finally tell yourself the truth. I regret that what I shall submit to the minutes of the House is online. I would very much like us to have it as an official text in the House. Unfortunately you have not brought it to the House, so that I can present the official text and comment on it. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. I would remind you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that this great so-called success, which Mr Voutsi has spoken about, and which you have been talking about since this morning in the channels, is nothing but the precise text, the reaffirmation of the agreement of 20 February and the commitment of your Government to implement this agreement immediately, quickly and in particular. You said before, Mr Voutsi, if I understood it well, you will correct me later - that you hope that there will be no pension measures, wages and anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u257	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u258	That's how I figured it out. Let's fix me. So let's say he said - so you don't worry - that he won't. You know, in life and politics, it doesn't matter what you say in the Step of the House or, most importantly, what you say in the channels. It matters what you've signed. So listen, ladies and gentlemen, the exact phrase you have signed in the Eurogroup agreement of 20 February on which you are celebrating today. This is the critical phrase, Mr. Brutsi, and it is important to stop lying. I read it first in Greek and then in English: "Only the approval of the completion of the evaluation of the extended programme by the institutions will allow for any disbursement of the remaining dose from the current programme and the transfer of profits from 2014. Both are subject to Eurogroup approval.’ In English...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u259	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u260	He needs to. He needs to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u261	I need to. ‘Only applicable of the content of the review of the extended arrangement by the institutions...’, etc. etc. I put it in the Minutes, since we do not have it as an official text. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Let us now explain to just Greek people what it is that you signed. It is the extension of the programme that Mr Venizelos has already presented to you. There's now any Member who wants to take it. And if you go, SYRIZA MPs, since you don't believe us 'bads', see what measures this programme includes and what you are committed to completing it with assessment, then perhaps we can come to an agreement. I am referring to an example, Mr Voutsi, concerning Mr Army, which is at hand. I say that the first Minister of Government Tsipras in the past was Mr. Army. Do you know why? Because to get the first euro - and from yesterday, you know, we also have a public admission from the Prime Minister that the money ends on 15 April, all we really learned from yesterday's meeting is that the money of the Greek state arrives until 15 April - the gentleman who sits there, Mr. Army - who is extremely fond of me - must have signed the ministerial decision on the application of the zero deficit clause. Will he sign it? If he doesn't sign it, you don't get any money. If you don't get money, we go bankrupt. Let's see now, what's going to happen? That is what the Eurogroup agreement of 20 February says. It's the particular part that says you commit not to pull back the reforms. And that's a law already passed. "Afterwards," do you understand? That's what you signed. The only reason you didn't bring the deal to the House is why you didn't want your MPs to hear - especially the younger of them - know... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't interrupt. This is the first time that the House has not met on such a serious issue. You should normally apologize for that. You're not getting any hints now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker finish. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u263	So I say again that the only reason you have not brought this to the House is why you do not want this to be made clear. So it is good for the good of SYRIZA - which I am obviously interested in - but for the good of the country, which I am very interested in and interested in, to be able to come to an agreement. Mr. Tsipras at the press conference of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, had then banned the so-called political negotiation - the one with so much pride Mr. Voutsis told us before - as the major area he would raise the question of the settlement of Greek debt. You can remember the Prime Minister and President of your party telling the PPC that he will be at the summit and will say - I tell you phrases Alexis Tsipras - "If the Greek debt problem is not solved, we cannot go below". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Show me, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly is the Greek debt issue mentioned in the communication? At absolutely no point. Why at absolutely no point? Because you didn't put it anywhere. Why didn't you put it? Because it can't be done. For we have told you four years that all you say about burdensome and disgraceful, about unilateral deletions and all the rest is about internal consumption, and we were not the 'German germans', the'shepherds' that we did not want to do but simply did not. It was a time when Mr Kammenos - and I have put the relevant video on my Twitter to see it - had come to this Step and he was screaming saying that "whoever signs the loan contract" - I say Kammen now - "which is clearly the memorandum and is not separated from the memorandum, commits national treason". And now Panos Kammenos himself, to keep the chair of the Minister of Defense, signes the loan contract he considered to be national treason. So, in order to get to know each other in the country, four years you have charged society with an improper nationalism. You have convinced the Greeks that about half of them are traitors and you patriots. You took the power, you came here and what do you sign? You sign - to know it, I tell you, because many of you may not have realised it - a "big virgin memorial". You're doing good! I'm pointing it out, you're doing good. Why are you doing okay? Because this is the only way the country will stay in the euro. But you have now made the big mistake, because you cannot admit it, because you cannot look at yourself in the mirror and people, for example, who were in PASOK and who left by boiling down the former PASOK because they passed the memorandum, came to SYRIZA to sign a memorandum from here. Why? [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Listen to why. Because you need to see yourself in the mirror and say "yes, four years I said things I shouldn't." So we welcome you to the Memorandum. I read, to close, today's fabulous press release of the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Nicolopoulos, I'm dedicating it to you. I say this because you once made the terrible statements that you are not accepting the Troika officials to the ministries. You have said eight to ten times that Samaras allegedly told you this 'with the four'. This is, of course, from your mind, but to see you now that you're going to stop the technical tiles...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u264	Then you were...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u265	Listen, Mr. Nicolopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u266	Please, Mr. Nicolopoulos. Mr. Georgiadis, please be brief. You have already reached nine minutes from six to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u267	So I'm dedicating to you today's press release...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u268	Then you were across the street...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u269	Don't interrupt, Mr. Nicolopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u270	Don't interrupt. Hold your cool and sign the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u271	I won't. My name isn't Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Nicolopoulos, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u273	So listen to the current press release you support, Mr Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u274	It is a good request from the Bureau, Mr Georgiadis. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u275	I read it to you: "The Ministry of Finance has been informed that the technical teams of experts are preparing a detailed list of the information they need with regard to the planned reforms, as well as the development of the economic data. This is a development that the Ministry of Finance considers positive, as it will help the debates held at Brussels Group level, a spirit of the Eurogroup decision of 20 February. We are looking forward to the list - the list to be sent by foreigners, inspectors, Commissioners, who will tell you patriots! - to which we will respond immediately and constructively."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u276	By e-mail!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u277	Here's the best part. You sent it in English, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u278	Warm request to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u279	You also sent it in English to e-mail to the troika. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So, Mr Voutsi, I tell you very well. Don't you leave the job? The troika is here, the technical tiles of the troika are here, the evaluation is here, and all you have to say is, if you haven't been able to close the assessment by 15 April - which we now learned that on 15 April we are bankrupt - do you have any other plan to tell us? Because you didn't tell us that either. The big news of yesterday's day was just this. So please put down the tons here and say an apology mainly to Samaras and New Democracy for what you have "surrendered to him". Bring the measures, see what measures they will be - I fear they will be extremely bad measures, because the hole has grown up, but I hope that it is not so and I will fall out there - and discuss them as civilised people and finally stop in the country the division of patriots, traitors and germans. Anyway, now we all sign the same things together. Let's go down and build our country. As far as the bill is concerned, I will say that, Mr President, I am not expanding because our rapporteur has said so, and Mr Bruts is also a specialist. We are voting on the articles on instalments, with whatever objections our rapporteur and our speakers have said. As regards Article 24 and the improvement made by the Minister, its improvement is certainly in the right direction and is a victory for the New Democracy, which forced the Minister to change the article in substance. We'll say good-bye. It's right to change. It would have been better if we hadn't told her, but in any case, even so, it is good. But we insist on his withdrawal, and I shall say that in my denunciation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u280	Before giving the floor to Mr Petrakos, who is the next parliamentary representative, Mr Solana asked for the floor for one minute. Isn't that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u282	Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u284	On what personal subject, Mr. Nicolopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u285	Didn't you hear my name? My name is Nicholas!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u286	Wait a minute for the Minister to take the floor and then I shall give you the floor on staff, as you requested. Mr Solana, Deputy Minister for Health and Social Security, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u287	We do not respond to Mr Georgiadis' welcome to the prison of the memorials, to which they themselves have entered as government, but have condemned the people and their homeland to be in her for five years and will, unfortunately, remain for them. Don't make us welcome. We're not going to get through this iron door. Those who signed Memorandums will be left alone and condemned by the Greek people to poverty, unemployment and impoverishment and homeland in humiliation. The historical responsibilities of the parties signed by the memoranda and applied them - the human-animal memorials against the Greek people - will not wash them out either by the entire Pacific Ocean. Secondly, we should not be concerned by Mr Georgiadis and not pressure us for forty days to sign ministerial decisions to reduce supplementary pensions and single-parent pensions. We have not signed them since the first day we entered our offices as Ministers - and I myself as Minister - and I will never, however looking forward to signing them. And I have the full political support of both the Prime Minister of the country and the entire Ministerial Council. And just to keep him informed that in a few days' time, in a joint bill with the Minister of Labour, Mr Skourletis, which will gradually restore the minimum wage, it will also be the provisions on which Mr Georgiadis is so looking forward, which will prevent any reductions in major and supplementary pensions from the day we took over the country's governance. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u288	Before giving the floor to Mr Petrakos, Mr Nicholas asked and I promised him to give him the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u289	You don't want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u290	What's personal, listen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u291	Oh, you want to hear it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u292	Not just me, but everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u293	I thought it was obvious and I'd answer, but to explain. Mr. Georgiadis referred twice and three times to me personally, saying, I lied about the known order Samaras and even that I may become Georgiadis. I think both, Mr President, is enough to give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u294	You've got it for a minute already.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u295	No, you told me to tell you what the staff is. In fact, Mr Georgiadis cannot understand - he has a difficulty - that this government is negotiating. I understand that, very well, because it seems he thinks, as others have thought in other times, that you are serving your homeland if you execute the orders of strangers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That way, you might even be fascinating. You know, that's the worst thing, not to be aware of what damage you've done in your country and in your people and to get out and fade. Secondly, no river, neither Theodorakis's - we heard him today saying about the banks - nor anyone else's...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u296	I'm sorry, Mr. Nicholopoulou, develop it personally in the time given to you. Do not refer to others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u297	...can't wash Mr. Georgian or Mr. Samaras, Mr. President, for what they've done. You know, just a few hours ago from that Step - and in his public statements here to Mr. Venizelos - Mr. Georgiadis said that if we vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u298	The personal issue you raise concerns, as you said, Mr Georgiadis. In the end, you will refer to the whole political scene of the country. Please, be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u299	...the humanitarian crisis bill, then we'll be at risk, because it's a unilateral energy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We also voted for the bill and the credit event didn't come. We will vote again today on the hundred instalments, because we will not sit on the knees, such as the ones who, when they voted in this House, seemed too much for foreigners, for their orders, came and took it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u300	Mr Nicolopoulou, you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, we will not. Neither Panos Kammenos, nor the Independent Greeks, nor the Christian Democratic Party, nor Nikos Nikolaopoulos will become like their faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Petrakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u304	No, Mr. Georgiadis. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, he said 'four'. It can't be done. I would like to speak on my own personal behalf.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u306	What on staff? Mr. Nicolopoulos, I'm telling you, he mentioned the whole political spectrum. If not all, the majority of our country's political spectrum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u307	Aren't you going to give me the reason for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u308	I have already given the floor to Mr Petrakos, Mr Georgiadis. Here, Mr. Petrako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we really understand the colleagues of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u310	We understand you too!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u311	We understand them for their self-criticism, which they did by saying that they are good people and they did not intend to harm the Greek people. We never said they were bad people. I barely did. But we said and said that the path that followed hurt Greece and the Greek people. That's not just us. Mr. Venizelos, a personal friend and co-chairman, says so, Mr. Giannitsis, in a study he did. It says who paid the marble from the policies implemented in the past five years. The marble paid for it hard the popular layers, the workers, the pensioners, the small and the medium-sized ones. They paid. So we understand their self-criticism. We also understand why they don't want to talk about the bill anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know why they don't want to talk about the bill? Today's poll says that 78% of the Greek people have a positive opinion on this bill that we are discussing and which comes to alleviate the highly indebted world, small and medium-sized enterprises, natural persons. He's coming to alleviate the insurance funds and pay tax revenues. The lenders thought they could drown us. They can't. It's over. The 'left parenthesis' is over. Let no one insist on it. The previous bill has 90% of the Greek people. That's why they don't talk at all about it today. They forgot about the bill, they forgot about the complaints about articles, because this government and these ministers have shown that they are really consulting MPs in committees - and if they have anything to offer - since the bill has not come from abroad in English and has been translated, so that they cannot change something, make a legislative improvement. This bill was made by themselves. It's made by the services. Parliament has therefore played an essential role. I say this because the committees have contributed to the bill and to the criticisms made by colleagues - rightly or unfairly, whatever they want to keep. So they have nothing to say, because all of it closed up and Article 24 and Article 21. Now they're trying to convince us that what happened last night. He's right to them. Really? The German electronic magazine "SPIEGEL" today has the title: "A major symbolic victory of Alexis Tsipras yesterday". And it is victory for Greece and the Greek people - as much as Mr Venizelos shouts, as Mr Georgiadis shouts - because they have had to agree that they have no right to continue insisting that Hardouvelis email should be applied and the fifth evaluation completed. We have come to an end with the provocative view that the two bills we have tabled are unilateral actions. Secondly, they have come up with and decided that the technical tiles are not entitled to intervene. So, let me say that the slap - on introductory lines - gave it to Mr Costello. Thirdly, they have undertaken to stop jeopardising Grexit, as Mr Theodorakis has done to show us what interests he serves. Of course, Mr. Theodorakis continued this. Fourthly, the list of reforms will have no material measures, no austerity measures. Fifthly, resources will be allocated to widening the problem of the humanitarian crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, the European Central Bank continues to refuse to allow the issue of interest-rate notes to be extended and to give the 1.9 billion that it holds from the profits of Greek bonds. But this is one-sided action. And I am very sorry - to use the most lenient expression - that Mr Venizelos and Mr Georgiadis have not only covered them, but basically say 'Bravo, they do well and go on and blackmail and continue to blackmail'. However, those who are blackmailing, this government is committed not once, but forty times, as many days as the country's governance days are, that the memorials are over. Its programme will be implemented with great sadness, it seems, of some who think that everyone is elected and when they are elected they are implementing another project than the one they commit to the Greek Parliament and the Greek people. Oh, no. As our President said, we are curious, we are a little curious and very different from everyone. We will implement the programme for which we have committed ourselves. But, before I go any further, you will allow me to say - Mr Venizelos is of course missing, but that's all right. What can we do? It comes, it speaks three hours and then it leaves - it made me a terrible impression that Mr Venizelos covers the terrible statements made by Mr Fortsakis, who obviously because he knows from junta and junta, as he defended one of them, namely the abolition of university asylum, made these terrible statements against the Prime Minister of the country. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative must also be posted. Unfortunately, the President of PASOK was in favour of Mr Fortsakis. This is a major issue, because the Prime Minister of the country is elected by the Greek people. The Prime Minister of the country enjoys the confidence of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people and those who did not vote for him. They have no right to those who have seen their past being in universities to use these expressions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As they do not have the right to continue any provocative publications from abroad, such as 'ECONOMIST', which wants to intervene in the government as to who will have ministers, who will have government partners. These, who will have ministers, are the exclusive right of the Prime Minister of the country, the elected - we must inform them. That's what the country's constitution says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u312	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u313	Yes, Mr President, but what can we do? Mr. Venizelos spoke forty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u314	I'm sorry, but Mr. Georgiadis spoke for twelve minutes. The Bureau was tolerable. Identify this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u315	What can we do? Let me finish, too, so I can answer everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u316	The Bureau will show the corresponding tolerance for all parliamentary representatives. You also have the corresponding time for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u317	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said, they have no right to challenge the Greek people or to say what policy we shall pursue. Greece's foreign policy - we say this once again - will be a peaceful, multi-dimensional, active and independent one, because what has been realised by all, is that a government which is not an unscrupulous fish and really exploits the important geopolitical role of Greece, wins and obliges everyone to respect the verdict of the Greek people. So in the face of what we have heard today, what we want to stress is that we are moving forward with the statement of the other bills, because it is challenging for Mr Venizelos to say that the title of the bill is false. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] He with his partner Mr. Samaras and before his partner Mr. Papademos and Mr. Papandreou destroyed the Greek economy and society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Petrako, the twelfth is complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u319	I shall conclude, Mr President. They raise issues, because in a bill we do not include the creation of the Special Purpose Development Bank and support for small and medium-sized enterprises and everything that is to come next. Well, after they have followed, they supposedly, the statements by our ministers, that the Minister responsible for Economy and Development, yesterday, gave an interview and announced that they were coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Petrako, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u321	So we move on as we will go on to protect public property and stop the extinguishing of public undertakings of strategic importance, which Mr Venizelos and Mr Samaras, despite his programme commitments for the networks...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Petrakos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u323	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll put on a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u324	You've exceeded all thirteen minutes. Tolerance, tolerance and tolerance have its limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u325	We stopped privatising both PPC and IPTO and regional airports. We will continue and proceed with this bill on...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Petrako, you do not respect the Bureau. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u327	Let me put an end to this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u328	Since the beginning of the sitting, the House has accepted, on the basis of what was decided at the Conference...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u329	Mr. President, I'd be done...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u330	Let me finish. I'll give you the 20 seconds you want. Since the beginning of the sitting, the House has decided that the programme will be respected, as decided by the Conference of Presidents, which means six minutes for the parliamentary representatives for the first time and three minutes for the second. With the tolerance of the Bureau, up to twelve minutes were given. You've reached thirteen. Respect the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u331	That is what I wanted, Mr President. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u332	You've got 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u333	Let me say, Mr President, that the Bureau systematically violated the time for the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, who have spoken more than twice a year. It's ruined the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u334	We do not compare Parliamentary Representatives with the Presidents. You may be right. From there on, this is another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u335	Nevertheless, I have told you that I conclude by saying that with the bill we are tabling, and it seems that no one can say anything about it, we really move on to these necessary arrangements, to alleviate the people in need, to support the country's insurance system, to support public revenues. So we are on the right track and on this road, and we will consistently continue with the next bills. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u336	Thank you. Before giving the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Pafili and to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Kokalis, Mr Georgiadis had already asked for the floor for a minute on personal grounds. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u337	Less than a minute, Mr President. I just wanted to say to Mr Nikolaopoulos - who left the Chamber, but to be heard - that I raised a political issue with him. Mr Kammens said here, whoever signs the loan contract, 'a traitor'. Now that Mr. Kammenos signs the same loan contract, you're whistling. And instead of answering that, Mr. Nicholas, the mud began. As far as my friend Mr. Petrakos is concerned, I am not picking you up anywhere, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague. You referred to "SPIEGEL", when on Sunday morning Mr Varoufakis at "ALPHA", on the thirteenth day questioned "SPIEGEL" as an unreliable form.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Georgiadis, don't open a new circle of personal retaliations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u339	I don't know if you heard. I do not agree with Mr Varoufakis, but he is your Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u340	So you agree with me. That's good!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u341	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u342	Next time, when we ask for the floor on staff, we don't have to fly any lines. I would advise Mr Petrakos not to invoke these kinds of magazines, where appropriate, because tomorrow he can write the whole opposite. And the tactics of these magazines are known. I'm saying it because tones have risen too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u343	The title was in the magazine. The rest was what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u344	Don't interrupt, Mr. Petrako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u345	If you want to hear that, because the next one will write the return. Then what are you gonna say? Don't invoke such sources. I consult with you, and I do not give any suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u346	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u347	Let's see how the meeting of the five of us last night ended. This is where we heard festivities. What's the final decision? What was agreed? That the agreement of 20 February and that it should be applied rapidly. Isn't that the decision, or are we wrong? So, what's the celebration for? And by the way, what's going to happen? Are we going to talk about it in the House? Will you bring her? We say that it will be voted on by roll-call vote and that everyone will take their responsibilities. Why so long - it's a month - does it not come to Parliament? We repeat what developments themselves have shown, beyond general declarations and very large words. It turns out that the workers and the populace both in our country and everywhere, cannot expect developments, negotiations, from the summit, from the meeting with Mrs Merkel and all that, nothing positive. The rest Mr. Voutsis said, it's nice to hear. "People above Profits", "all movements" etc., etc. But there is cynical, cruel, capitalist barbarism, crushing peoples and crushing them. There is the cynical dictatorship of capital today in the European Union. Because that is the European Union. He's with a parliamentary cloak. But that's the kind of thing that requires more blood. And not only blood from work, but blood from war, so he can leave the crisis. Therefore, if the people have something to wait for, and if something can be distracted until this system overthrows, they can only do so with the united class struggle here and everywhere. What did the Prime Minister say? We've brought the train back to the tracks. Who are the tracks? It's the 20th of February agreement. The train didn't leave the tracks. It's the Euro-Union rails. It's the capitalist development path, yes or no? Unless you've taken the assurance of the seven that we're going for a socialist development path. Because there's no medium. Anyone who says it will be a capitalist development path with a philosophical face, mocking the world and with himself. That is why we are saying that the people must have no tolerance, no complacentness. We understand the emotions - you see they're starting now and getting a little shredded up - that there's a little trouble and negotiation, but reality is very difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the SYRIZA and Ministers of Government, you have made it quite clear that Europe is changing. Isn't that what you told the people? Hope is coming, Europe is changing. Now what do you have to say? Has Europe changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u348	It's changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u349	Is Europe changing? Strong lasting. Is Europe changing? Of course it's changing. Worst. It's changing to the worst, and you see it in this negotiation that you're doing and where we're going to comment on it. What Europe means I said before. So when you swear on it and there is nothing else, you will also suffer the consequences of European Union policy. Is there a negotiation? Of course there is a negotiation. There's always been a negotiation. And the previous ones were negotiating. Now for whom, in what terms and in what context, there is the big question. Today there is a more general area to be seen, how the world situation and the negotiations themselves are evolving, the exacerbation of conflicts in particular between the United States and the European Union, the exacerbation of conflicts within the European Union, for example, for the management of the great state debt that exists, the pressure on Germany to bear even greater burdens. There is the contrast between Germany and the United States of America and that is well known. Germany wants to be stronger, and the Americans want to weaken the role. There is the 'war', as it says, the dollar - euro. There are the major contradictions - explosives and liberated into this world now, because it is not the old world, before the 1990s, I mean - which are really explosive to the streets of energy, to share and to redistribute markets, to say it with a classic leniistic position that some just invoke for other reasons. Greece is negotiating in this context, literally. From this context, however, there is something missing. Is there anywhere within the European Union and elsewhere in the negotiations on people's rights, in order to increase wages, increase pensions, increase social funds and all this environment? Now don't tickle me, because I'll tell you what you signed, of what you've signed, if you want. Wait. So is there any conflict at world level today in imperialist domination, which says that the world must live better or is there a general agreement - that the labour force should be reduced further or left here where it has arrived? Because he's reached the bottom in some countries too. Of course not. There's no such negotiation. The government is negotiating. What's he negotiating? The relaunch of the economy. What economy? What development? Capitalist development. What does that mean, practically? When you accept and say "yes, I negotiate the relaunching of capitalist development", then you will follow its laws. Unless you have done any wisdom, which is not explained either philosophically or economically or nothing. Which means what? You're negotiating to detach funds to finance the capital to make growth and invest. Only the term to do this is, today - and always, but much worse today - the working force to be at the bottom, to reduce more. You say that we have changed it. So what does it mean, not material measures? Creative ambiguity. That means, not real measures, if we discuss what everyone means. Because you may mean - for example - an end to austerity and the other one saying that without austerity, the capitalist economy cannot go ahead. So that's the way it is. So the framework you are negotiating is the framework of the same capitalist development. To free funds - I am not talking about the debt now, but this has something to do with - to fund large monopolies that will make growth. Aren't they going to make growth in Greece, based on your programme, not ours? That's what the New Democracy and the PASOK said. That is what he has done and that is what the whole European framework says. Second, who are you negotiating with? They're the same. I said it last time, and I'll say it again. You say that there is a war. Who's the opponent? We say that capitalism is an adversary, it is the European Union, it is the European Central Bank, it is the IMF, etc. For you are institutions, friends and partners. You are negotiating with the same ones that the previous ones have been negotiating. Don't get into the logic that the troika's dead now, okay, because it's called an institution. I don't want to comment on it at all. So you're negotiating with them. What was the result of the new big and hard negotiations in this context? It was February 20's deal. What's the deal on February 20? Continuation of the loan contract and the Memorandum. That's it, isn't it? What was the Memorandum abolished? Well, who are you telling that Memorial is dead? Who? It's absurd to have four hundred Memorandum Laws, applied policy, and to go out to the people and to the Step here and say that the Memorandum is over. Where did the Memorandum end? The whole economy with the Memorandum Laws - as they are called - is not moving? Are we wrong? Does that not extend the agreement of 20 February, which is considered a great success? Does the memorandum and the loan contract not extend? Did you abolish it? And what does Mr. Army say, who has left now, about the insurance issue? It says that "the Greek Government is committed to continuing the reforms in the insurance system". What does that mean? We know Greek. It means you don't mind the past and you keep going in the same direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u350	Public body for social security support. It's a reform, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u351	They say - and we have no reason to question it, life will prove it - that 'we are not going to make new cuts'. A lot of people have said that. But even if we accept this, the laws that exist today with which you commit yourself to continue in this direction do not literally crush workers? Yes or no? What does it say about the statistics you've made here with fire reasons? He says all the things that have happened are done. It says the text inside. Do you want me to read it to you? He says we don't tease those who are in progress. It also says that the subsequent privatisations, which we undertake to do, will serve the private interest. But others said they would serve the national and state interest. So here's what the deal is. That is why we say that we continue the same policy as you call it. I don't want to get into the loans and everything else. That's why we say it's a dead end to the people. It is not going to win within the European Union on the capitalist development path and on the debt nipple. That is why we say that the only philosophical solution is outside the European Union, a unilateral debt deletion, a socialisation of the means of production, a people's economy, namely socialism. Here, don't tell me that you're paving the way to socialism by serving the wildest capitalism, because that's what PASOK used to say. There's a third street.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u352	You've reached twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u353	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'd like ten more seconds. I shall now refer to today's bill. You know we have to be honest, not to talk about relief of popular strata. If you want to relieve the popular layers - and we are waiting for an answer, Minister - why do you not accept the amendment of the JRC, which actually relieves the popular layers and not everyone? Nikos Karathanasopoulos said so, and even no one was found to speak on the SYRIZA side either. We did not expect any response or delusion. But why don't you accept it that bolts the debts? We're talking about popular households, not everyone. It says up to 40,000 euros of family income that this arrangement should be made, from there on on to pay properly, because they have such an income. Debt haircuts, HNVY debt haircuts, local household care cuts, said them, repeat them, haircuts all debts. What are you doing here now? You're practically continuing with some micro-improvements of what happened before. And what are you doing in the end? Wear the people's needs and weary together and whatever, some of them, you have had election. That is why we cannot vote for this. We expect you to make a commitment to come and discuss this infamous agreement of 20 February, which is more or less a cosmogenic one. It's not. They're on the same line and the people have a choice. To fight, fight, to distract and open a way to total overthrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr Vassilis Kokalis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u355	Mr President, I will be brief, because let us not forget that all my colleagues must be placed. That is the purpose, after all. However, as a parliamentary representative of the Independent Greeks I must comment on Mr Adoni Georgiadis as well as Mr Theodorakis. Mr Georgiadis, I have to give you my warmest congratulations. I'm really talking to you. With your rhetoric and arguments, you are the best advocate of lenders. Congratulations! But we are not all the same, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u356	Are you going to tell us about the loan contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u357	Please! Like I didn't interrupt, don't interrupt me! You let false impressions be misled. Did you see Panos Kammenos sign a loan contract? In any case, I have noticed with your speech that you are blocking Parliament's work. If you are obsessed with Panos Kammenos, we will not pay for it by the rest of the Members. I will also be allowed to refer to Mr Theodorakis. Carefully and patiently I heard his speech. He mentioned the word bank sixteen times. He never once mentioned the words trader, a freelance professional, a man who is interested in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u358	And who's gonna give money?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u359	Please. I'm sure the banks, Mrs. Marcus, are needed. Most of all, however, he's the man. Economy equals human beings, but obviously your Chief is representing the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u360	Oh, well...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u361	Of course, he didn't say a single word. He said: "To shut down the businesses to save the banks".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u362	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u363	If you have such a logic as a party, the Greek people see us and judge us. I think you should work with Mr. Georgiadis' party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u364	You imagine things!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u365	Please. There is a rule, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u366	Please don't interrupt. Keep going, Mr. Red. You have the floor. The Bureau has given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u367	As I have not interrupted, I do not want Mrs Marcou to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u368	That's right. I would also ask the honourable Members not to intervene, not to interrupt the speaker. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u369	To respect the Rules of Procedure that it must not be interrupted and can be answered by the parliamentary representative either by me or by someone else, unless I am referring to staff, which I have not mentioned. Therefore, do not interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u370	And immediately after you, Mrs. Liberaki has the floor. She's been asking for him anyway. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, we will also be placed later on for the bill that we have already placed. I had, as a parliamentary representative, to contradict both Mr Georgiadis and the President of the River. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u372	The Parliamentary spokesman for the River, Mr Antigone Lyberakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. I, as a parliamentary representative, shall not refer to foreign policy, not to credit agreements, not to regional airports and privatizations, not to mention the general political debate, nor shall I refer to the fact that the users of the banks are people - otherwise, if they are cats, you can inform me because I have four. I would like to refer to the bill we are debating today, which has the ambitious title: 'Regions for the relaunching of the economy', and the title is very welcome, because we really do not need anything more than the relaunch of the economy. Unfortunately, the title is inconsistent with the content. I am not going to mention particularly the sloppyness - it is certified by the large number of legislative improvements which come to a large extent and three and four and five in some articles from yesterday's to date - the flaws, formalities and difficulties of understanding. I would like to say that this bill comes to deal with a cash issue, that is, it has a collecting objective and it wants to tackle a development issue, it wants to relaunch the economy. I think that both are inequitable with the requirements. For the collecting objective, I would like to say that its effectiveness is very doubtful and it is doubtful, because despite the fact that we are sure that we have immediate collecting needs, it is far more generous than previous arrangements in many instalments, which means that it transfers the receipts in the future and much more stringently to the arrangements for a few instalments that bring the collections closer to them. That is why it is not strange that estimates say that within a period of four years they cannot expect more than 3.1 billion, of which in the first year 850 million, and if we add to it the settlement of insurance contributions - which if I am not mistaken the report of the General Accounting Office of the State expects around 2 billion, but over eight years - you understand that the relief of the tax base is small. Furthermore, I think it is very important to point out that while it is very important for the government - and it does well - to regulate 15% of the debts it considers to be collectible, it is also very important to tell us what it intends to do with the remaining 85% of the debts that are not collected but need to be sorted out. And I don't want to say exactly how he's gonna do it. I think he deserves the initiative of moves. However, we too are entitled as citizens, but also as parliamentarians, to have a sense of how it intends to close this issue, because the loose ends. It burdens citizens, businesses, banks, the public. That is why I would like to see some structured way of dealing with the heavy burden of debt. As to the part of the re-start, I don't want to memorize. It is a fact that it offers relief to households and businesses. Except that this relief is temporary and I will explain why, in the end, I believe that it is one of these temporary reliefs that bring us farther from the objective of fiscal consciousness and of insurance. In fact, one could say that it's a fragmentary attempt, it's a fire effort, it responds to a real problem, and, from this point of view, what is the problem that is not comprehensive and structured? What I mean to say is that this is not the first regulation. You all know that. Each regulation made creates a temporary relief both in the collecting mechanism and in the deferred debtors whether they are individuals or businesses. However, every regulation that is being done erods something very important, which is already at a very low point, a sense of responsibility, which leads to a tax conscience and a conscience that the debtors, and the insurance funds and the public, must be in line with their obligations. If any further regulation has this weight, I would like the regulation that is being voted on today to be shielded, in order that it is indeed the latter, the completely last regulation, Mrs Valvain, as you said to journalists and to us in the committee yesterday. The reporters smiled because they've heard it many times. I would like not to smile and believe it, although I know that for this to be true, we should come 'pack' with a series of brave changes in the rules of the game. A stable and sustainable tax system, a fair but sustainable solution to insurance, a wider framework for business and entrepreneurship, a framework that promotes exports and attracts investment and, above all, a framework that creates jobs and responds to the problem of unemployment. I'd say we didn't see that. And all that creates the belief that, yes, it's a last setup, let everyone try to join, those who can anyway, because there won't be another one. Because that's the reality. The strongest motive is not how generous the adjustment is, but the less generous the next one. Every next adjustment is more generous than the previous one, because otherwise it will not have any effect at all. Apart from this, and apart from fiscal consciousness and the wider context and insurance consciousness, it has other costs of any regulation, and this costs are a great burden, which is a recession for three reasons. Firstly, each regulation tends to exacerbate active demand, which means that money that will be jirava into the economy goes to the state. Secondly, it limits business liquidity, because some money they used to do their job, they give it to the state. Thirdly, it exacerbates uncertainty and uncertainty deprives investment. For all these reasons, therefore, I would like to say that we, the river, are concerned with these regulations. We do not question the need to find a solution to these issues, nor the need to provide brave solutions, and we would not ask you if you had presented a very brave programme which responds to both collectives and development issues. We are afraid, however, that even the right arrangements are very few and the silences are much larger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u374	He has no other parliamentary representative said he wants to go up to the Step, so we are now starting with the list of speakers. First we call Miss Charalapidou from SYRIZA and then it's Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u375	I've made a change with Mr. Voridis, Mr. President. I'll talk to Mr. Voridis first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u376	Good. So, instead of Mr Voridis as a second speaker, Mr Brutsis will take the lead. There will be a mutual change between the two speakers. Mrs Charalapidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill for a debate in plenary is a proposal aimed at incurring revenues from the public funds and the insurance institutions, revenues for which there is an urgent need. At the same time, however, this bill and this legislative initiative of the Government is a direct facility for hundreds of thousands of workers, small and medium-sized enterprises and Greek households. I want to note that only in the first eight months of 2014, more than EUR 9.5 billion of new dues were created, and this was before the implementation of the HPAI. Overall at the moment, the debts have exceeded 77 billion and, of course, this huge growth is due to a very large part to the policies currently being pursued. In order to regulate the draft law, arrears due to the possibility of repayment and the minimum amount of instalments shall be paid. At this point, I would like to remind you that in the previous government's bill, the minimum rate was EUR 50 for tax, i.e. EUR 600 per year, while the increase - if someone did not pay the adjustment dose in time - was 2%. In the positive terms of this bill, it is found and I think it is very important - and the provision for taxation of the imputable income of those with zero income on the wage scale from 1-1-2014. This is therefore a regulation which will help significantly to recover debts and will in particular help the insurance funds, in which liquidity needs are increasing every day and today when there are EUR 15.2 billion principal debts. But I must make it clear and make it clear: I do not believe that the measures taken today are a full and comprehensive policy for the relief of the people's layers. The private debt part requires rapid intervention for the'red' loans and, of course, it is essential to reverse the labour market so that we can gradually strengthen public income and households. I would particularly like to focus on the arrangements made, in very favourable terms, for the debts of insurance contributions. First point. The possibility of adjusting to doses, up to a per cent, is allowed with exemption for surcharges and additional fees from 50% to 100%. I also consider it particularly important for the Minister for Social Security today to remove interest on all debtors, without income criteria and regardless of the amount of contributions due or their application to existing arrangements. Second point. Provision is made for the possibility of granting insurance information in the form of a monthly certificate of debt, the criminal prosecution against debtors shall be suspended, the execution of a penalty imposed shall be postponed and, as soon as its execution has begun, the procedure for the enforcement of movable and immovable assets shall be suspended, with the sole condition of payment of the agreed instalment. Third point. In particular, for AIFM and EAFRD insured who, during the year 2014, had zero income, without calculating unemployment and privileged benefits, have been suspended for a period of 12 months, all of the preventive measures and persecution against them shall be subject to the regulation of the bill at their request. That is to say, the logic of dealing with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who have been objectively unable to pay contributions to their own insurance. Of course, fourth point - and very importantly - is that it allows insured persons to choose another insurance class. However, I consider it particularly important - and I would like to stress and take it into account - that it is particularly important to regulate those who have personal and mutual responsibility as legal representatives, members of boards, advisors, clearers... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, it is 12 minutes. It's not six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u379	I didn't get it. What do you mean, twelve minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u380	The rapporteurs speak 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u381	I'm not a rapporteur, I'm a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u382	She's not a rapporteur. We've been on the list of speakers. And on the basis of the programming that has been done, it is worth six minutes, not only Mrs Charalapidou but all the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u383	He's got a denology too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u384	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u385	If he wants to, he'll ask, Mr. Brutsi. Mrs Charalabidou has asked for a minute and will give the Bureau the tolerance of one minute. Here you go, Mrs. Charalabed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u386	Thank you. In particular, it is important to provide for those who have debts to the social security institutions after the break-up or merger of the undertakings in which they were shareholders. It is a very serious measure, a measure, to put a brake on the practice of many employers to bankrupt their businesses, to be exempt from the bankruptcy procedure from their debts, to transfer production to a new business structure - which they rename - and thus by merged and closed businesses, to be able to continue to feed the insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u387	Mrs Charalapidou, now put the Bureau in a difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u388	I'll be done. I would also like to mention that the amendment made by the Minister to Article 24, I think it is in the right direction. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the end, everyone realises that this bill is a set of institutional interventions with symbolism and messages that have multiple recipients. First of all, it is aimed at the society that has been brutally affected, showing that the government has a classic monopolies in favour of the affected society, it is addressed to the opposition parties, and it is detracting from the objections that the first time the left government distributes crumbs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u389	Ms. Charalapidou, please. You've already spent the eight minutes and removed the twenty seconds that I interrupted before, but you have to show an understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u390	But I'm ending up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u391	When do you finish? We've reached eight and a half minutes. Then the other fellow Members will rightly protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u392	No one complains.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u393	I'm not talking to anyone personally. I say, perhaps, many may protest. Before I give the floor to Mr Brutsi, ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", sixty-five students and their four educational attendants from the 5th Katerini Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u394	Tell the President how much time you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u395	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in the House a law which is currently being discussed not by government but, unfortunately, by Minister of State, and that is what I would like to begin with. I am saying this because, in the capacity of the Minister of Labour a few months ago, I was placed on the same subject and in the same way I will be reassigned today, because I believe that certain principles and values which must govern the social security system and the taxation system of our country must be kept very high and must not mislead the logic of either demagogy or populism. And I'm explaining. Unfortunately, for decades now in our country, the logic of the successful minister was sometimes linked or most often to how many arrangements it would bring. This was a mistaken concept, a distortion of the economy, because what we finally managed to achieve was to create jobs, namely people outside of jobs, as they closed down businesses through unfair competition, as companies were borrowing free of charge and 'harmed' money from either the tax funds, the public funds or the insurance funds. We have paid this distortion dearly, paid it for years and at some point it must be stopped and politically agreed on all sides of this House. The second point I would like to make to all my colleagues concerns the words 'good regulation'. It is a distortion to believe that good regulation is the one that is favourable, regulation that is as favourable as possible. Good regulation is effective regulation, which incorporates within it and embraces people who, firstly, really need and keep their businesses alive and will be able to repay and secondly, bring money to public and insurance funds. This must be the orientation, ladies and gentlemen. Because I hear the SYRIZA rapporteurs today - rightly so by some, because they do not know or because they have not dealt with it - to invoke the very good and favourable regulation. It's the wrong big one. That regulation we are debating today, very simply there is a much better regulation, which could be at a hundred and fifty doses, with two hundred and go by saying. There is no end to this process. We therefore need to keep up the criteria for assessing a regulation, because at the end of the day, what measures are the state's revenues. And she is no longer responsible for a party that is in the opposition, but for the party that governs, which you have unfortunately not shown, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Not young people, because young people didn't know about it. But I'll tell them to find out. About a year and a half ago, ladies and gentlemen, the previous government had arranged for the so-called 'forty-eight-dollar law'. This law of regulation finally succeeded and I will tell you the results. After some time, in September 2014, we brought the known percent dose adjustment. It was L.4305/2014, the 'thousand-dose-dose-dose law', which is about identical to the current arrangement we are discussing. The New Democracy could, invoking party egoism, be put in a negative position today. And yet, he doesn't. He'd have an alibi to do it, and I'll explain why. Because today I am sorry to inform you, Minister, that the expectations you have created for the revenues from this regulation - on the basis of the deficits created in the insurance funds - are too low and I will explain that. SYRIZA had a golden chance. It could be the prior adjustment of the hundred doses of the previous government, to make it the best possible. Closed and finalized on 31-3-2015. He had politically to anticipate that it would be a government. He knew he wouldn't vote for the President of the Republic. He knew the next day, the bet would be the revenues and all the economic issues that would arise. What he should have done was not commit to seismicism or demolish bills and be exposed today to both its constituents and the world that had promised that he would even cut off capital and pay nothing. She undermined herself in a few words and the previous government and herself. However, he eventually undermined Greece itself, because today what the country is facing - and as was leaked from Brussels yesterday - is that the money available ends, unfortunately, on 15 April. New Democracy doesn't say that. The government came out and leaked through social media, and it's nightmareary to scary. I say, therefore, that you could have used this previous arrangement, exploited it and improved it. For example, you could have reduced the interest rate by one amendment, and you have changed by more than 15,000 in the seventy-two to make it a hundred and by ending at 31/3, public revenues in both tax and insurance. You didn't do it and it was a criminal mistake, not for SYRIZA. You know we don't care. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also use the dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u396	The list on the basis of the programming that we started is not worth a second word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u397	If you see the Minutes in the morning, that's agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u398	The Bureau will show a tolerance of time. You'll have that tolerance. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u399	I'm sorry. I think that the parliamentary representatives agreed this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u401	We'll give you time, Mr. Brutsi. Don't worry. Take the time and talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u402	So I think it was a strategic mistake on the part of the government and the opposition yesterday, which we are all paying for today. The regulation, ladies and gentlemen, will not bring any money. The vast majority of the debtors have already entered into the previous arrangement. What will now be done with this new regulation will be very simple - and you will, unfortunately, see it as a matter of fact - that the previous debtors who have already regulated the new regulation will be shifted. In other words, you will see - and the percentages are recorded electronically - the old regulated in the new regulation. Those who enter will be infinitely infinite. The revenue, which will come, Minister, will be little, while the expectations of this insurance regulation are too great. Beyond the political reference and beliefs of everyone, beyond the flags of resistance raised by each other, I will speak to you about three numbers, which are relentless. For example, I hear the Minister, Mr. Army, saying that he does not sign the zero deficit clause or the transparency clause, objectivity, reciprocity, as I say it, and solidarity between generations in the AS. Do you know what that costs? Five hundred ten million. That's what's going on. At one time, the same treatment costs 433 million. The Public Officials' Equity Fund costs 226 million euros. Aggregate these. They're spending $1 billion. My expectation is that it will succeed, but my assessment is that the income from insurance from this arrangement will not exceed at the level of the year 250 million. That must concern us all very much. If anything happens in the country, the price for SYRIZA can be too great. But I belong to a generation of people, who serve a party called New Democracy, and what I have learned a lot, is putting above all my homeland. The hit in Greece will hit all Greeks. No one's gonna get away with it. That is why we must also be careful in what we say in our political events and in our political statements. As far as the CRL is concerned, which today in the bill is described by a hundred points, I would simply remind you that it is the creation of the previous government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour. You know how many critical questions I had received - most serious! - and suggestions, ideas offensive? Do you know what the CRL is? Unfortunately, the country's insurance system has been very low for many years. With the exception of the IKA, which had been organised in recent years, there was no organised collection mechanism in the CRL, the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts. With our own powers, with the highest officials from the IKA, who we took and started from scratch, we set up the most organized, effective mechanism for the single way of collecting contributions, which we have succeeded and learned for the first time, what the dues in the country are and we have learned for the first time that the vast majority of those owed to the insurance funds are, unfortunately, from the well-being period. That's the reality. That is why we must be careful, and that is why our decisions and our legislative work must now be very serious. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of my time, I have said these specific things. In addition, I would like to say something - and I conclude with that - to the representative of SYRIZA, who this morning heard him say that everyone agrees with the regulation and mentioned the professionals. It's a big mistake. GSEVE and SYRIZA disagree with the regulation currently brought by SYRIZA, which is identical to our previous one, in the sense that SYRIZA had previously agreed with them that it would go to their proposal to freeze the debts. If that were the case, it would be a tragic mistake to the public funds. I'm saying you didn't adopt it. However, I do not argue that you have been in hug with this proposal, which you have today, and you have rightly condemned, all the free professionals. Thank you very much for the hearing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr. Matthewos Artemios from Golden Dawn followed by Marcus from Potami. Here, Mr. Matthew, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. The legislative work of co-government has just been summarised in two bills, but it would be unfair to criticise the total number, since more than forty days you have been called upon to govern this country. We must, however, criticise the substance and the role played by these two bills. I would remind you that the first is what you have said, because you have promised us that you will commit a large part of the humanitarian crisis - and it is one of the reasons why we have agreed on some key points - and the second is the issue of the settlement of outstanding debts. But, first of all, it is the long delay with which these bills came to a debate in Parliament, not only in terms of time but also in substance. And it is not our problem, whether and to what extent you have cultivated great hopes in the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, who have, after all, voted for you, precisely because he believed what you were saying in the election, that you will denounce the memorandums, the credits - call them exactly what you want - contracts. So, it is a question that during the Prime Minister's programming statements from this step, we had heard the famous 100-day programme, the SYRIZA programme, which in very few days would have succeeded in reversing a climate that, as he rightly denounced, the previous coup d'état through the Memorandum policies. But think that this one hundred-day program should be shifted for the next month, because in the first forty days you have consumed it in a cheap communication show, if Mr Varoufakis wears or does not wear a tie, in what he whispered in the ear of Dieselblum, in what they promised behind the scenes, in what he was written in secret, without the House and the Greek people knowing - on 20 February. But what is the essence? That, in the famous Eurogroup negotiation, the famous break with the Eurocourts, it has only been shown from the very order of things that the same Memorandum policy of the New Democracy and PASOK will continue. Believe me, we were the first to say that we would never want the same policy to continue. However, you still have to prove - and you can no longer prove it - that you will break with the lenders, precisely because, unfortunately or fortunately, they now decide on the fate of foreign power centres which send their decisions either by mail or by telephone or by institutional steps in and out of Athens. Of course, this is all about a bill which is completely out of logic, because when we talk about a humanitarian crisis or arrears, we are talking about bills which require the development of the primary production sector as a key element. One may suggest that the economic data contained in the two drafts do not relate to the primary production sector. And yet you are wrong, because a national economy means developing a primary production sector. The funds, the interest rate, all that the Greek people pay in blood, given by private banks, are money that should once be repaid on much more unfavourable terms. This is why the reason is because if all these bills are carried out within a Memorandum of Understanding, it is proven that they will fail, just as the previous government failed, precisely because there is no room for Greek administration, so that we can relieve the pain of the Greek people as far as possible. However, everyone here thinks, all of them nonetheless. There has been something very insulting that I want right now, here and now, to make it clear that we are all signing the same. I will start in the order of speakers, as I have noticed them. I shall begin with Mr Theocharis, the consortium of small and medium-sized enterprises, the consortium of the small and medium-sized ones, who, as the government's Secretary-General of Income, simply had the role of collecting revenue through a policy which proved to be how disastrous it was. It seems, however, that depending on which position you are sitting in Parliament, your political position is also adapted. When you're opposition, it's very easy to denounce someone. But when you're in a position, you just do what you're told. That's what Mr. Theocharis did. And not only is he - so as not to be unfair - but also the party of the New Democracy, which, with the memorials, crushed the Greek people, who, with the memorial policies, brought to impoverishment most of the Greek people, who impoverished the Greek society. For PASOK, what should I start? On the countless scandals paid by the Greek people but by the tax-gatherers - the most recent one we have heard, since the issue of the Lagard list was being discussed - is still unavoidable of an 'independent' justice, which is all tried, condemned but, in the end, the Greek citizen always ends up in prison for small amounts and micro-problems? So, as Golden Dawn, we have tabled - if I am not mistaken - so far three other amendments and two others will follow during the debate, because we are one of those who are very well aware of the pain that the Greek people are going through and we have specific proposals for the regulation of late payment. It is certainly an issue that does not only concern Golden Dawn, it does not only concern the voters of the Golden Dawn. It employs the largest share of the Greek people, which somehow expects to be integrated into a more favourable or more favourable regulation, so that it can afford to cope with it. In closing my speech - I would like to be within a timeframe - I would like to refer to an issue which is irrelevant to today's debate, but which is politically topical and concerns the Golden Dawn and, in particular, the other parties, who have not been able to deal with us in an honest policy, which has used fraudulent methods to hit Golden Dawn. This is about the release of the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn and MP Piraeus Ioannis Horse. I am pleased - rather for you, I am very unpleasant - to confirm this. But I would also like to send a message to all those who believe that justice is being tried at the principle of equality. It is no coincidence that at the same time it has been ordered to investigate the potential execution of racist crimes on account of the dropping of brochures in the center of Athens that brought the slogan "Greece belongs to the Greeks. Now out, all illegal immigrants." I would therefore like to make it clear that yes, we believe in the principle of equality and equality and, if it is to order an investigation into this incident - not for crimes, the throwing of brochures - to listen to the Left, which speaks of the law of fighters, mobilisations, the free expression of ideas and so on. And to make it clear that if there were the principle of isology, Isidor Doyakos, who gave this unbelievable mandate to order an investigation into the racist delirium - according to his own attitude - of the former Prime Minister, who from the fence of Evros said 'we will not allow illegal invasion of illegal immigrants'. Because according to his sense of reason, racism is also the Greek Constitution. For clearly, the Greek Constitution provides for the expulsion of all those who enter the country illegally. Of course, what about this man who was picking up the phones when the former Minister of Justice called him and told him: "Holded innocent people in prison you have no evidence. We are not concerned at all.' I would also like, as we speak of violence, to denounce the violence of others, which you secretly applaud or clearly applaud. So in my hands, I have a brochure of an organization entitled 'Keep the Golden Dawn neo-nazis in every neighborhood'. There is no Isidor Doyakos, however, ordering investigation into the incitement to violence or crimes against the Golden Globes, because when the victim is the Golden Dawn, whether it suits you or does not suit you, you are glad, because you do not learn in this Chamber. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to denounce the most disgraceful of all, which is that some judicial officers have become from key institutional positions to hamper concentrations, prevent the legitimate functioning of political parties such as the Golden Dawn. By the way, since we are now talking about criminalization, it started by criminalizing the party’s leadership....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u405	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u406	I'll be done. ... started with the criminalisation of the party's leadership and they realized that this whole fiasco doesn't lead anywhere. Now they want to criminalize both the officials or any Greek citizen who agrees with the constitutional article, which all the Greek people are talking about, and which we are protesting tomorrow at our offices on Diligiannis Street, to protest against the Greeks. I am not renounced either the motto or the rhetoric or the legitimate struggle expressed through the support of hundreds of thousands of Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u407	The reason for the lady is...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u409	Here you go, Mrs. Liberaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u410	Because he referred to the main rapporteur of the River, Mr. Theocharis, as a consortium...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u411	If he's authorized...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u412	No, Mrs. Liberus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u413	Just a minute, I'd like to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u414	Don't ruin the course of the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u415	Wait a minute. Please, I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u416	You'll get the floor in second year. To give the floor now to Mrs Marcou, we have announced her. You'll get the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u417	But now it's said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u418	Excuse me, but you won't talk about someone else. Is it personal? There was no such issue. After all, it wasn't personal. Mrs Marku, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u419	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot go back to the procedure, because we had in plenary commitments from the SYRIZA - ANEL and the President of Parliament that the urgency procedure will be an exception. Here, indeed, if we move on the basis of the title, the relaunching of the economy, there is an urgent need. The market has already frozen before the elections. Businesses and freelance professionals are struggling to meet accumulated years' obligations. Excuse me, but the regulation of debts, however necessary, is not a means of restarting the economy. I have not heard a word about red business loans, the lack of traffic bank funds on the market, the activation of the NSRF and the development law. I said it the other day. Since the first half of 2014, no notice has been issued. Cuvets on delays in returning VAT from the state, drying export businesses, actions and programmes to reduce bureaucracy and support entrepreneurship and employment. These would mark the relaunch of the economy. On the other hand, with regulations such as Article 21, which I will then speak about, or Article 31 on mutual responsibility, and the mere investor in a company which has no decisive and management powers, the objective of reopening is more likely to be met. If we accept that the targeting is purely collective and, as a matter of urgency, I would remind you that the Minister of Finance in his letter to the institutions, following the agreement of 20 February, described in this bill, is talking about implementing an incentive plan with a frontal effect. But the motives given, especially in relation to previous regulations, eventually lead people to prefer most doses, a hundred instead of ten or twenty. Therefore, the project is not forward-looking but will work over four years. Already the pre-election period and the government's announcement of up-to-date regulation have plunged revenue. Eight hundred million new debts in January 2015 and another 900 million at the end of February. Overall, in tax and insurance funds, some five million debtors owe EUR 98 billion. Expected revenues, based on the regulations of the bill, amount to about EUR 3.1 billion over a period of four years. Finally, this objective of direct collection is not satisfactorily served. Without overlooking the need to cover the bill, we believe that the possibility of regulation, in the way it is given, can only function as an exceptional and exceptional procedure. Our rapporteur has referred to our specific proposals for a comprehensive plan, based on the data and experience gained by the tax administration, aimed at helping citizens and businesses to fulfil their obligations and, indeed, building a tax conscience. Why can't the state close its eyes to the citizens all the time and tell them "wait, don't pay, we'll adjust". The citizens who can and have have to pay and you must say that clearly, Minister. It has become the subject of a taboo. There is a feeling that the Greek state is an enemy of the citizen. We have to tell citizens that the state is their own, it is their state and that everyone needs to help. Similarly, the state itself must be consistent with citizens and businesses. That is why we have tabled the 32 amendment allowing public suppliers to recognise part of the public service obligations to them by general government bodies, against their own public debts and to receive information so that they can function. I now come to the articles. In Articles 16 and 17, you are essentially weakening the General Secretariat for Revenue, authorising the Minister for Finance to decide on matters of its own competence, when one of the nineteen prerequisites asked by our partners, and indeed without any financial costs, was precisely to strengthen the independence of the General Secretariat for our own good, to be truly fair and non-aligned to all citizens. In addition, Article 21 introduces a horizontal tax measure of 26% on expenditure paid in trade with non-cooperative or preferential tax regimes. We have already received letters from market operators, especially from northern Greece, who consider it to cause serious problems in their operation and financial management, since non-cooperative states include countries with which there are significant cooperation, such as Bulgaria and Skopje. This forecast increases costs for businesses, with all that implies for their competitiveness in an international environment and can lead to closure or relocation, with negative consequences for employment, income, exports and revenues from the public and insurance funds. There's no need to bring this arrangement in this way. It must be discussed properly and after hearing the institutions. In Article 24, despite the fourth legislative improvement brought about by the ANEL - SYRIZA, there is still the loose end of the new fund, which is why it has to be withdrawn. In Article 31, for which I spoke at first, you seem to ignore the entire grid of Corporate and Commercial Law. These articles we ask to withdraw. Overall, we recognise the need for a direct reinforcement of public revenue through a process of regulation that will enable professionals, businesses and households to put their obligations in order and move. This does not mean, however, that under the pressure of urgency, we will have to deal with fragmentary and sketchy arrangements, which ultimately create problems rather than solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mrs. Marcus. Before giving Mr Katsotis the floor from the Communist Party, I will give Mr Theochari the floor. Mr. Theochari, did you say on personal grounds that you wanted the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u421	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u422	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u423	At my entrance, my colleagues informed me that in my absence I was called "money" from the Step of the House. Then, of course, I realized that Mr. Artemis Matthaiopoulos of the Golden Dawn was present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u424	Mr Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. A lot has been written and much has been said about the negotiations and the last, which from 'hard negotiation' and 'convergence', became a 'integrated compromise'. But what you are hiding - and we, of course, reveal it - is that the compromise, but also the controversy, are made for the interests of monopolistic groups and not for the interests of the people. The people are lost by hand and will be as much as no forces are gathered capable of ruptured and overthrowing. The wide popular strata have led to overcompensation because of all options for exiting the crisis and recovering the profitability of capital. We are talking about choices that have not changed, but continue with the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, since it has fully maintained the anti-grassroots framework of the previous memoranda and continues with the new reforms that it promised will be very rapid. The next period will have enough to discuss in this Chamber. That is what the institutions are demanding. They require a new memorandum to be prepared to ensure the "commitments" of the country and, of course, to create a friendly environment for investors. The friendly environment is nothing but the scanning of any remaining rights. The bill is entitled ‘Approvements to relaunch the economy’. The content, however, is about restarting extortion in the popular layers to fill the public funds, grabbing what is left of the great robbery that the world has suffered from all the anti-popular laws, to pay the debt, which is not theirs. It was created by governments on behalf of large capital, monopolistic groups. People's layers have no money to pay. That's the problem, not the doses. As much as you do, the millions who live below the poverty line and those who are on the line cannot pay. You tell the people that it is a "patriotic duty" to pay HIS and any other "grass", which you described as unfair and said you would abolish. The other day, in the bill passed on the subject of the 'humanitarian crisis' - again in in introductory form - you yourself have provided evidence of the deterioration of the populace. The big tax raid remains. You demand the sums from the carpets, the ENVY, the EDPS and other anti-grass taxes, to be paid in full with more instalments. Where do most of these doses lead? They lead to higher increments. That's clear. What remains for big capital? It remains the system of reduced rates, tax exemptions. For shipowners, of course, taxation remains. You are calling on them, the people's layers, to comply with those who, as has been written, were charged with 337% extra taxes. On the other hand, the maximum income levels charged to 20% will continue to have their exemptions, their immunity. The JRC recognises that there is a problem in the popular layers, which is why it has tabled an amendment. Unfortunately, the government is silent and is not answering what it says about it. Because, in fact, I do not know whether it has been understood what the JRC's proposal is, let us say again, that it concerns natural persons with a family income of up to EUR 40,000, plus EUR 5 000 for each protected member. It concerns individual and personal companies with debts both to tax administration and social security institutions up to EUR 100,000 in total. We say that this is about our proposal and not about the big companies, not the others that the bill says. We do not put in debts due to tax evasion - they do not belong to our proposal - nor do the debts to the NAT. We also say that our amendment provides for the removal of all debts arising from fines and increases in payment delays. It also provides for the cancellation of debts from: From the listing of the special solidarity levy - which you have already said will be abolished from the listing of the EMCDDA, the EMCDDA, the EMCDDA, the EMCDDA and the EMCDDA for the first house up to a hundred and twenty square metres and the second residence up to eighty square meters, from the allocation of expenditure on hospitals, for medical and pharmaceutical care charged on taxes. Of course, you are silent about all this, and I think you should answer that. The amendment does, of course, have other arrangements on how the debts are regulated, in addition to what it provides for the removal of all incremental payments. The question of the arrangements for insurance contributions is not a new one, Minister. The usual practice of all governments is regulation. You consider insurance contributions as non-wage costs. The course of this is, of course, to exempt the State and the employer from the obligation to pay insurance contributions. Insurance contributions form part of the price of the labour force. Tax evasion, insecure work, reductions in contributions, as well as arrangements, are part of the European Union's strategy of capital, to reduce the price of labour. Civil governments treat insurance institutions as capital buttons and not as social insurance institutions which must provide decent pensions and benefits to insured persons. Their cash balances were used for the needs of capital. Over 70 billion. They went into their vaults, went to enhance their profitability. 14 billion lost. from the haircut. Once again you want the cash reserves to be used to repay the debt, which is not of the workers, of the retired. Our proposal responds to the popular strata that they cannot pay and ensures the contributions of the insurance funds to be paid by employers. Our special speaker has also pointed out the other aspects of the bill, such as the TIAD - which has now been purified - for the regulations on the altar, which are now making them more enjoyable. Now they help to make use of it as you say. It has also highlighted all the other aspects that lead us, of course, to vote against the draft law in the first place. We call on the workers and the people on 1 April that pensioners are organising a rally to contribute with their participation so that they can stop all this attack on workers and people and on SYRIZA - ANEL, in order to meet the needs of big capital, the European Union, creditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u426	Before giving the floor to Mr Katana Harisios to replace Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, according to a document from the Group of Independent Greeks, I will make you an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, fifty-seven students and students, as well as three educational sessions from the Gymnasium Potochori Kavalas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Because I see that Mr Katanas Charisios is not in the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Constantinople from PASOK. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that the President of Parliament will come to the next time to attend the meeting of the urgent bill, one of the bad practices of the previous government. Minister, honourable Members, today really the bill that was submitted to the House for the hundred instalments is not a bill promised by SYRIZA. The real bill that SYRIZA promised was the seismic bill, and I'm sure no troika stopped you from bringing it. I am telling you a characteristic passage from your colleagues' interview in the previous House, which said: 'Bird regions will be set up in our home country, committees to clear all the debts due to the taxes and all the debts due to the insurance funds'. This bill, you promised the Greek people, and you did not bring it. So no troika stopped you, and none of us need to fight because the troika stopped you. You stopped this on your own. So you lied to the Greek people. Minister, this was before the election. Of course, you were a representative at the time. You will remember the great interview that took place in Chamber 223 in the presence of the President of Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, the Vice-President of this House today, Mr Metropoulou, and, if I am not mistaken, Mrs Valvani. But Mrs Valvain, who is here today, immediately after the elections, in an interview with her on this bill, talked about a reduction in capital. And this troika stopped it or was it another post-election promise you couldn't implement? That's not what we're talking about. No Diaselblum said. You said it, you promised the Greek people. But, Minister, over the last four years, you have been slandering political forces and people in the worst way. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I, because I'm not afraid to say names, I'll say them. You will allow me to read to you what Mr. Army said in the House on 11-03-2015. It speaks of the amendment brought about by the New Democracy - PASOK. We're talking, if you remember, about the two major oil companies. So what did he say then? It said that this amendment had three articles and in Article 2 it said that it actually gave retroactive taxes which had been introduced and fines of 1.2 billion imposed on two companies that had refineries, the MOTOR OIL and ELPE, the first and the second. And I ask you today, ladies and gentlemen: where is this amendment that you would bring as a government? And if you are unconvinced about this - because we were convinced that it was right - you who are unconvinced and say that we have given it to them, say to me: Where is today's amendment by the Members of the Government to stop us from giving Mr Vardinoyannis and Mr Latsis 1.2 billion? Minister, this is over! Either you get back what you said, or then I'll say what you said about us, that you are employees of Mr. Vardinoyannis and Mr. Latsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u428	And who's gonna believe you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u429	And because you show us and say, "But, how does that work?" and because I have heard the President ask whether there is a member in the SYRIZA who has anything to do with them, if you ask me, I will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u430	We're asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u431	If you want to see who has something to do with it, you will know that Mr Constantopoulos has become President of the Panathinaikos. I hope you don't think Mr. Constantopoulos has put him in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u432	He came in with an SAPA!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u433	Yesterday, Mrs Constantopoulos was telling us and showing us. He came in with an SAPA! Ladies and gentlemen, I am still waiting for the government to tell us whether it will bring an amendment to which 1.2 billion will be returned. I expect that from Mrs Valavani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u434	It's all going to happen. One-one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u435	One-one. But, as Mr Petrakos said, on the basis of the publication 'SPIEGEL', which reads every Thursday,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u436	I can't read it all day!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u437	...he did very well. There is, however, a friend of Symble in Greece who talks about orderly bankruptcy and return to the drachma. It's Mr. Lapavisa. Who should we believe?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u438	Me, Mr. Constantinople, for being Peloponnese.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u439	There is Mr Voutsis who, today, quite rightly said that 'we are making our alliances abroad, in the Atlantic and within Europe'. And there is a friend of Shoeble, within Greece, who says "let's be honest. We are on our own at all nineteen and twenty-nine." It's Mr. Papadioulis. I have heard Mr Marda say that there is no liquidity problem in the country. And I heard a friend of Symble's last night, the Deputy Prime Minister, Drasakis, saying that if the agreement is not closed, we do not have time for the next time. Who should we believe? Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have caused a great division in Greek society over the last four years with other anti-immemorandum forces. Memorandum - antimony. Today you want to involve us in the new internal division that exists in SYRIZA. And since you love polls - the new division is euro - drachma - you will see the latest survey, since you see them all, which says 43% of those who voted for SYRIZA are in favour of the euro and 41% in favour of the drachma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u440	About the hundred instalments to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u441	Let me talk. So if we add the nationalist tendency of Mr. Kammenos and Mrs. Konstantopoulou, there is a division, which is within you and you want to bring him as a division in Greek society. You have no problems confronting them with opposition. Well, you're a majority of us, no matter what we say. Mostly, you will have a problem with what you do. The government's problem won't be that the money is over. The problem with the government is that the lies are over! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u442	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Of course, in the eight minutes and forty-one seconds he spoke, he did not mention the particular bill we are discussing at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u443	Are you Vice President of SYRIZA or Vice-President of the entire House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u444	The whole House, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u445	You cannot behave like this, Madam President, as if you were Vice-President of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Constantinople, I let you speak eight and a half minutes and make an observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u447	It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u448	Well, leave the shames for yourself, Mr. Constantinople. Mr Katanas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a reference to yesterday's negotiation, because there was indeed a negotiation yesterday. We understand Mr Samaras' difficulty in accepting that there are governments that are negotiating. Besides, he is not helped and his memories from the summits where he was leaving with packages of material measures and cuts. We are bound by the people's mandate. The famous e-mail Hardouvelis is now a past. We will continue with the same determination and sobriety. The Greek Government achieved a small victory yesterday, and it is now up to it to make good use of it and make it important for both the government and Greece. Shoeble, Disebloom, etc. They stressed to all tons that the only debate that can be held is pencil and number paper. The government has succeeded in politicizing this debate at a mini-European conference for Greece. Yesterday's day is the first step in the continuous battle to bring society up. I call on the government to insist on the idea that people are above any economic planning, over whatever negotiation and over whatever agreement. So trustworthy in the election commitments, according to which their focus is now on people and their needs and not on lenders and their demands, of course. We are now discussing the second bill submitted to Parliament by the Government of National Rescue and it relates to the regulation of late payments to the State, including the regulation on the debts to the insurance funds. The vast majority of society was burdened with all the burdens of the crisis, currently experiencing the daily deadlocks imposed by austerity policies, which were consistently served by previous Memorandum governments. Many have lost and continue to lose. The very few won and continue to win. They win, both in blooming and in the recession of the economy. They win, when production rates grow, and when rates fall into negative sizes. Only in every recession, growing levels of society are within the ranks of the losers, with less hope of rediscovering their lost income and social situation in the future. The new government is now being called upon to overturn the fact that we are in a period of peace. All indicators, however, refer to a country that just came out of war. And the hardest technocrat now recognizes the difficult position in which the Greek society and the economy find themselves. It is necessary for this to happen that we should finally stop taking submissively and with the hands down any requirements of lenders to continue a proven disastrous policy. That is why the Greek Government, not only did it really start negotiating with our partners, but it also goes one step further, presenting the second in a series of bills, written in Greece after many years and does not constitute a translation of the outside of course. Gentlemen of today's Opposition, you must prove to yourselves, but above all to the Greek people, that you are not the voice of lenders within this country. Another is that you are really in the mood and contribute to the benefit of this country and its citizens. You are presented with a second opportunity and you know that second opportunities are not often presented in life. Now or never. People are watching us. On the 25th of January, the Greek people gave a resounding slap in your policies and plunged an end to your inhuman policy, which plunged the country into recession and unemployment, poverty and impoverishment. Your only anxiety is to fail the negotiations. It's a word you don't know, because you never negotiated. On the contrary, you were troika agents and ruled the country only by e-mail. Gentlemen of the previous government, the Greek people with their vote sent you to the counter definitively and irrevocably. The painful policies that you have implemented have resulted in the constant decline in wages and incomes, the eruption of unemployment, which has led to the real weakness of a significant part of the citizens and businesses to respond to all their tax obligations and, as a result, the accumulation of unforeseen state-certified debts. Therefore, the ongoing settlement of dues is part of a politically necessary and unresponsive deferral, which aims to try to restore the country and the citizens. In addition, the second chapter seeks to address the very serious issue of accumulated insurance debts and their gradual repayment. The latter is a top priority for strengthening the incomes of the insurance funds and at the same time aims to bring the economy back and relaunch it, which after five years of unprecedented recession has been bankrupt. We must be very careful about our moves, talking about the relaunch of the Greek economy, because almost all Greeks have certain debts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President, I'll be done. A great subject that burns is TIERISIA. Right now, he's holding all Greek prisoners. Companies, small and medium-sized enterprises cannot function. About 80% of them have hands tied up. They can't get insurance information, they can't get tax information, so they can't move. How, then, will we combat the unemployment which is plagued by our country, if we do not help those companies, which have been legally operating for years, but the ghost of the crisis and the practices of the memorandum have led them to the edge of the cliff? With the current situation in Greek businesses, the departure of our new scientists abroad is a phenomenon. Overall - and in all sectors - over a hundred and fifty thousand young Greek scientists are abroad, whether they have been professionally established or looking for a good job. If it's not our place, then what is it? In particular, the number of Greek scientists who migrate abroad has been growing over the last five years. In fact, their fleeing now takes traits of persecution from our country, due to a total lack of professional choice. With today's bill, Greek companies are given an opportunity to regulate their debts, to be able to function, to keep their existing staff and to open - if possible - new jobs so that the brilliant minds of our country do not go abroad. Because we have brilliant brains. This draft law is a positive development for companies with major problems in the crisis. At this point I would like to stress the determination of the current government, which responds by means of actions to the objections of the country's creditors' representatives. We all remember Mr Kostelo as unilateral actions the plans to address the humanitarian crisis and regulate the debts to the public. You will tell me, so he had learned that the previous Memorandum of Understanding, "We are deciding and ordering". We respond by means of acts of threats, by tabling the second in the series of legislation in Parliament with a focus on human beings and not, of course, on numbers. In conclusion, Madam President - and I thank you for your understanding - I would like to stress that the Independent Greeks' position is the legislature and then the explanation abroad for why it is being done. Each Costello won't approve the bills once our people are hungry. From the first moment on we have had an honest attitude to the creditors and the people that we will change the Memorandum Policy. This country receives orders from the people and only from him. We are a country that has regained its national sovereignty. Some have to understand that. The economic crisis has turned into a humanitarian crisis. We're not asking anyone about the bill. The terror scenarios were never really. We didn't see any disasters. We didn't see banks shut down, empty the ATMs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u450	Mr. Katana, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u451	I shall conclude, Madam President. We did not see this horror climate that the outgoing government was trying to impose on the Greek people. The policies that have led us to this situation are changing. That is the objective and we will only be judged by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u452	The Deputy Minister for Finance, Mr Olga - Nadia Valvani, has the floor. Minister, how many minutes do you want to talk now? You are entitled to a total of eighteen and a half minutes. You want everything now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u453	Give me 15 minutes and we'll see. Ladies and gentlemen, because I want to talk about the bill, I will not be drawn either from the public terrorist eruption with borrowed words by Mr Theodorakis or from the doctrine - among other things - on the part of the President of PASOK the motto of the fifth evaluation. Remember what the e-mail Hardouvelis contained, but I don't know if you remember the Troika's answer, which he said at the time that what the e-mail Hardouvelis had received is only 25% of the prerequisites to close the fifth rating. I am not going to get carried away either by the fact that it does not seem generally disturb that the reason for this again and again being discussed is that there is a constant effort from specific circles of the European Union to return to the fifth evaluation and the mistress of the memoranda, even though this was supposed to have been avoided - and it was confirmed yesterday that this was avoided - by the decision of 20 February. I want to talk about the bill. I mean it - and I don't think anyone should be ashamed to say it - that the part of the arrangements worked over and over again. I would like to say to Mrs Lyberaki that she is right that, for a couple of departments, legal improvements have again been made, particularly on the question of Article 24. You will see, however, - and I do not think it is accidental - that almost nothing has been pending, except the addition of local self-government, which did not go into those who could join the bill. Perhaps there are still some outstanding issues. For example, it must be guaranteed - and we will see whether we can do this by Monday - so that the legal persons of local government, the citizens' debts to legal persons, such as the ECHR, the Single Association of Municipalities and the Communities of Attica or as they are...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u454	NYPD.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u455	Water supply services, from Heraklion, from various things. We'll see if the things that are in our intentions are included if they're not covered by the formalities as they are, so that we don't now give legal improvements...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u456	Not covered. I also suggested it in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u457	Yeah. We'll see if we can get the licensed interpretative decision to cover them that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u458	It doesn't cover them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u459	I would therefore like to say that in the part we have really worked on, those of us who are proud, firstly, because for all of us it was the first time for the services of the Ministry of Finance that were really torn apart, so that they could make a good, no fragmentary and overall regulatory plan. We are also proud, because no one gave it to us, nor did anyone correct it to us. Above all, I would like to think that we are proud of the fact that it can have a positive and effective impact on the everyday lives of hundreds of thousands of people. I know, of course, that the question was raised by the title itself, if this is a measure which helps to relaunch the economy, because that is what the title says. It doesn't say that the regulation will pass and we're done with the relaunch of the economy. Only those who do not have the bracelets of captivity in a debt that they cannot repay, both natural persons and very small, small and medium-sized enterprises may question that a regulation on the debt, in effect final, does not contribute to the resumption of the economy, by releasing people who have yet to catch them and businesses that have frozen their accounts and cannot pay either their suppliers or even their employees. I would like to remind you that there are 3.5 million natural persons and businesses that are captive and cannot pay up to 3 000 euros and 3.7 million natural persons and businesses that are similar prisoners of up to 5,000 euros. The basic philosophy of the bill is similar to the current arrangement which ends on 31 March. I would remind you that we had then voted 'no', we said that it is in a positive direction, but that it is extremely inadequate and bold. The main thing, in relation to the existing regulation - which is not a small detail, as some of the speakers have said before - is that we release it from all the restrictions. Everyone who can pay 20 euros a month can actually join, without any previous prerequisites. They don't have to pay anything. Even if they do not owe tax declarations, they can join, they are enough to deposit them within a quarter of their accession, and that is a condition that applies throughout the whole of the arrangement. There is an effort today to ensure that the 2013 EMCDDA was sent in 2013, 2014 and was not sent to be assured and sent, so that it could enter the arrangement and not be paid after a dug. There is a great effort being made in the WIPO, which is seriously taken from the latest infinite not reconstruction, but essentially their degradation. That is why I would like to make an appeal from the Step forward - I know that many work within the limits of their powers - so that we can move forward and complete the clearance of outstanding tax declarations, which was one of the reasons why people who wanted and could enter the arrangement that started last October could not get in. And it is a matter of time and effort to be able, even until the last day, to come in now. There is also the possibility of those who had resorted with their own will to the courts and who had not yet discussed their appeal at a hearing, forbending any court to be able to take advantage of the rules. A characteristic of it, too, is liberation upwards. That is, any pretext from these about six and a half thousand is being removed, as it seems to be - it is actually under six thousand, because they are companies that are bankrupt, etc. - owed around 60 billion of the 77 billion over the years today. It is a target group, which is completely ruthless in regulations, i.e. from about 60 billion is regulated only 220 million. It is therefore clear that any barrier, which could be a pretext for not participating in it, is being liberalised. Proposals have been made, mainly on the part of the New Democracy, but I also think from the Potami, upwards, to make it known that if they enter, they will then be audited by the tax office, to see whether they were really able to pay and owe them so long or indeed are no longer able to pay today. I'm going to tell you this simple: If we want those who have never been in, we're going to do it like that. From the smallest debtor to the biggest debtor, if you invite him to set up, there's one reason why he shouldn't get in there, tell him he's going to set up, and then he'll come in and check him out. So if we want to be clean, we have to reverse it. Let's say that those who don't come in, while they can, because some people, I say again, have legal stories and can't come in anyway - are sure that sooner or later, the tax will pass. I know that some political forces and over time the International Monetary Fund are beating the bell that there should be no regulation but a culture of fiscal consciousness. I think that is very right, but I think that all things are right or can also prove to be wrong, depending on the specific circumstances at the time. There is always a good time and a wrong time for everything, according to the specific circumstances. So I will tell you what I said yesterday in the committee about the private debts to public debts, overdue as a percentage of GDP. It's a painting that I just took him in my hands. In 2000, which was about the same GDP - a little higher than in 2004 - the due debt was 4.8% of GDP. I think you can in these circumstances use comfortably whatever it takes to create a tax conscience. In 2010, the first year of the memorandum, they closed with 17% of GDP, and since then an explosion has actually occurred in terms of GDP. So we reached 2014 to close with arrears of public debt to 39.7% of GDP. 40% of GDP is in debt that the citizens owe in every form of state, apart from the bank's red loans, and I think that's a little too much - it says it all. When public debt reaches 40%, tax consciousness, if it is intended to prevent regulation, it is empty words. On the contrary, it should be ringing, not a bell, but a huge bell about where we go and what we should do. Because Mr. Koutsoukos asked me for the table yesterday, please testify to the Minutes, so that he can be taken and any other colleague wants to use it. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Olga - Nadia Valvaani, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the second phase, what we have said and there we are meeting with the JRC's seismicism. Those who cannot pay EUR 20 a month in debt to the public plus EUR 50 in debt to insurance funds, if they are freelance professionals, mono-personal companies, etc., plus any loans they have to the banks, in any way they have regulated them - which is the other major wound - those with income criteria will now be able to address the committees, which will be set in a second phase. I say again that we will not send three and a half million people to the committees. Because if they go to the committees, to regulate their debts in this way either they can or can't do it, there will be a nightmare that will overcome the nightmare of JEPs, which they can't give once and for all to people who don't have hands or feet a...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u460	This has been solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u461	It's not solved yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u462	The issue of forty-three diseases has been solved completely. I'm sorry to interrupt, but that's unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u463	You mean that right now there are no tails to pass?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u464	No, the tails are different.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u465	But that's what I'm talking about for those who've been...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u466	The forty-three diseases you say about hands and feet are over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u467	Maybe I didn't express myself right. What I meant is that there are people waiting for two years, so they can be certified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u468	Not that either. He has fallen under the month of Athens. Now, you're handling it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u469	We will not, then, send millions of people and businesses. We will only send out those who are audited who are unable to get into the existing regulations and there will be seismicity. An important innovation of this bill is Article 15, which provides for partial repayment by 26 April. I have to tell you that much more bold than Article 15 is what journalists called 'express regulation' and which opened last midnight and already has a very large number of visitors. Those who cannot or do not want to benefit for this period of seven days will have the opportunity once again, when I hope - before Easter - to have arrangements by 26 April, which will not be exactly the same, since it is now more drastic, but which will be linked to the regulation of all other debts. Is the setting going to work? I believe that against the pessimistic predictions of both the New Democracy and the River will succeed. I say this because I get hundreds of messages from people who are struggling for whether they can get in. And most of them, we make sure they can get in. Also, when it was posted for a five-day at OpenGov, more than sixty-five thousand people visited it, which is considered too large for these processes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u470	He's small.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u471	In relation to the IMO, I would like to say that the main in this article is that the inventions are, in principle, decongested and the role of IMO control sheets is restored. It is no longer a report of ideas taken by the tax office and has to do another semester check. And it is not random because they have'stoled' these. It is also retrospectively restored, that is, for those of them that have not been able to start testing, so that they can be directly registered in the tax administration's books and that the legal result can be confirmed from now on. And there is one condition which we all consider to be very basic: it will not close a report of this kind, without those who the ILO calls for, have all the opportunity to present all the supporting documents and all the evidence that can prove that the inspection is not done to right people. I will say a word - I will eventually take him all my time, as it turns out - for triangular transactions, that is, for Article 21. This is where we have to agree. Are there or aren't there? In other words, this is a windmill shading, which will create a great deal of competition - why are they not small and medium-sized - in the large and very large companies? Because in these contexts, triangular transactions take place, they are not made by the small ones. So if we say it's a shade and that there are no ones, then we really need to get it back the way it is and not to have a conversation again. But if we say what the whole world says, which the European Commission has started to say, even though there are very large companies, then I think we should agree that with the least possible damage we should hit this phenomenon. What are we actually asking to prove? We're not asking for anything strange. Above all, we ask that those from whom they introduce not to be box company, not to be a hell company, that is to say, an address in a post box, but a normal, real company, with workers and with the production of like products. Some things more than that. I will repeat what I said at the beginning. In the Ministerial Decision defining precisely the criteria for monitoring, we will ask in real time, that is to say, at the time of each import, for an import dossier to be available for that import. As far as those files appear to be clear, there is no such matter, they will not have to pay at all 26%. Only 26% will those who seem to be a 'carabinat' case or those who are in a grey zone, for which there must be control. And because they will certainly be some who will not have triangular transactions, we have limited the legal improvement - something Mr Stathakis has already said at the beginning - from one year to three months in the time that the control has to be finished and or that 26% has to be registered in the state or returned. I want to remind you that this has two legs, just like the setting before. The regulation, on the one hand, relieves the world and on the other it brings revenues in a suffocating period. And this one has two legs: one leg is that the phenomenon of tax evasion is being beaten - if we do manage it, we will see it in the next period - and we will be collected for the state. It was practically a 'carabinat' tax evasion. At the same time, we will also have cheaper products for the workers and the people. And don't forget where the triangular transactions end up. And there is one reason why, for example, the same product in Germany is half priced than it is sold here. Articles 16 and 17 also require a roll-call vote from the New Democracy. Yesterday, some speakers told her that they were problematic articles, because they create centralism in the Minister's face. What is Article 16 and Article 17? They're typical authorized provisions. Article 17, in fact, concerns exemptions not covered by the rules, such as debts from illegal State aid, debts which are part of pecuniary agreements which have been ratified by a court decision, etc. And they usually put it like that - instead of saying it - one underneath the other, because they fear service actors that something can escape, and then the circular will all be in it. Here, of course, there is one question I raised yesterday: when these formal authorizing provisions go to the Minister - that is, she is responsible - it is centralism. When they go to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, it's decentralisation. I think this is a little funny, if you think that in the General Secretariat of Public Incomes, in the face of Mr Theocharis earlier, Mrs Savaidou, today, they have gone unreturned by the previous Finance Ministers, the Deputy Finance Ministers and the Deputy Minister of Finance, sixty-eight responsibilities - I say again. - related to taxation. And you should know that in fact, the tax mechanism in the Ministry of Finance belongs to 9/10 in the General Secretariat of Revenue and by only 1/10 in all the others together, including the ILO. It is clear that the administrative and financial autonomy of the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue has not been jeopardised since the issue of two authorised circulars. For Article 24, I think now - and I will agree with Mrs Lymperaki - that we should not make all these legal improvements. I think, however, that following this storm of legal improvements, it is both technical and politically impeccable. I consider it politically insulting - and I have to say this - that, as far as possible, the position of the Special Speaker of the JRC - I have made them sluggishly at the time when he said it - such as: 'The great foodstuff with the great business interests will continue with the Government of SYRIZA'. Secondly, ‘This is a question of exempting business interests from insurance contributions from the transfer of revenues to the insurance system by the new body of public property’. In an insurance system missing from the 1.5 million unemployed - and there are no cumulative years now and not a few months - as well as contributions to the OAED for a hundred hundred and sixty thousand small and very small businesses who have closed down this time, it is said that channelling out of insurance funds into the insurance system serves the big business interests shows a loss of measure. And I think that could hurt SYRIZA. But it doesn't just hurt SYRIZA. The same is true, and when no easy effort is made - to link this to SYRIZA, with the great foodstuff we have actually experienced in previous years - to build a public property fund that will not be the TIAD. We don't retire from wrestling. We are giving it today and we will continue to give it, at least as much as it goes through our hand and we would like others to give this battle, not only at social level, which needs to strengthen too much, but also at political level, even at political level - it does not matter - but, at the same time, it does not matter that there is a real relief for the Greek people, and at the same time they also create a basis for not having this dependence and this suffocation that we are currently experiencing. He really regrets us when we see that this is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u472	Mr Vorides has the floor and Mr Balaourras Geramis, the last speaker on the list of speakers, must be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u473	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard things. I shall be very brief in this initial speech. I've heard a lot about bill translations. All right, I stand up to these SYRIZA propagandas, but now we have one particular thing here, which I would like to put forward, so that colleagues can know. Because, look, bill translations, you agree, but here you have reached the point in the Ministry of Finance to issue press releases in Greek and English - that is excellent! - bilinguals, in which their English are good - excellent English, good! - but read their Greeks now. I read Greek. Because we said translation, but at least it's good! If you don't make sense of Greek? I'm reading a press release today, March 20th.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u474	Read.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u475	Did he read? Covered? Let's go, let's go!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u476	It wasn't said, say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u477	I have to say, Mr Ministers, that I was surprised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u478	English or Greek?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u479	English was excellent, Mr Stathakis, because you have excellent people who have studied in America and Esperia and know English well. There's a little Greek about it. I read: 'The Ministry of Finance has been informed that technical expert groups are preparing a detailed list of the information they need with regard to the planned reforms'. ‘About’ does not exist. I read: 'This is a development that the Ministry of Finance considers positive' - good! - "as will help in the discussions held at the Brussels group level, the spirit of the Eurogroup decision of 20 February". Because I don't understand it in English, then I read it in English and I get it. It closes this nice press release: "We look forward to the list, to which we will respond immediately and constructively." Will we respond immediately and constructively to the Brussels group list? Good luck! I'm going to the bill, and I'm focusing on two articles. Article 21. Madam Minister, I am very worried. Why? This concerns both the Minister of Development and I will tell you why it concerns both of you. Tax law is not an easy law. It is highly technical, complex, complex, and its lack of understanding leads to very significant damages if no one knows exactly what they are doing. In theory, the ministers often suggest - those with public administration experience - know this - what is being prepared for them. Often, services make gross errors either by zeal or by failure. This has happened to us many times. Now listen to what I am worried about: what is the added value of the regulation you are doing? Because, as you know, there are previous provisions on triangular transactions. Two things you do in this new arrangement, repeating the main structure of the existing one: One is that you add two new categories of controlled ones, the third and the second, i.e. they are related to that company, etc., as defined, and the other, where the company does not have one. I have no objection - I say it now - to add the third and the fourth to as an extension of the documentary object. But what, ladies and gentlemen, has the practice so far been to see whether there are triangular transactions and what should be their tax treatment? They were obliged, in fact, to prove that they did not fall within the category of control. I say with the third and second preconditions to widen. No objections to that. Since they proved, then there was no question of deducting the discount. That was the mechanism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I hope I have your tolerance. That mechanism you're changing now. And what do you put on? You put them in the second case, which concerns a, b, c and d, the advance payment - you call it ‘ withholding’ - 26% of the total turnover. Can you give them the opportunity and take them to the quarter to prove that they do not fall under categories a, b, c, d and therefore what to do? Reimbursement of this tax. Now, the Minister says - so I am worried - that I will make a ministerial decision, which will say that if these are proved, under the conditions of ministerial decision and the legislative authority, it will not pay. But they must have paid. 26% will trade it - as you rightly said - of large businesses. That's not a tax. It's not profitable. This is a turnover. So - imagine - you have a company that makes a turnover of 100 million. In these 100 millions you will ask them to bring you 25, 26 and prove to you after the transaction is normal. Mr. Minister of Development, do you understand what this means to our businesses, to the Greeks, who do not commit anything illegal? That means they need to find liquidity of 26%, bring it to you and wait for control to prove you. Is it possible that you want this thing? And imagine - which is most likely - a lot of commercial enterprises, too many service businesses are perfectly normal. Will they bring you 26% of their money and wait for them to prove what is going to happen then? I can hear the Minister saying: 'But we will not take their money.' That's why I'm worried. I am concerned because it seems to me that the Minister has not understood the proposed regulation. You'll get their money. Your ministerial decision, Minister, cannot be contrary to the law, because the legislative authority you ask for is what is it? ‘The procedures for applying the present case shall be regulated by a decision of the Minister of Finance, in particular the procedure for checking cases (c) and (d)’. Yes, but in the context defined. In other words, in cases (a), (b), (c), (d) in order that the taxpayer does not fall under the non-reimbursement of expenditure, he should pay the withheld tax. Is it possible that we would like regular operations to close them? It's possible - be careful! - companies competing with other foreigners, make them and transfer them such a financial burden? Look at it. I am going to the second topic: The Scientific Report says: 'Towards trade with enterprises established in a Member State - a Member State of the European Union and the European Economic Area with a preferential tax regime - Bulgaria, Ireland, Cyprus - the provision constitutes an unjustified restriction on the freedom of establishment, movement of goods and services, since the situation under the proposed provision does not necessarily constitute a complex situation, as this concept has been established by the European Court of Justice. They tell you that we have a violation of European law here. The Scientific Committee's report tells you. This is not to catch the bad traders, but to have a rational way of catching them and not to hurt people and companies who, for the majority of them, have normal trades. You cannot take this into account. You can't do that. I understand the Minister of Finance wants money. But not to have revenue, to shut down operations. And I'm telling you, what we're doing is just to create them a burden. It further says the Scientific Committee's report: 'The scientific committee is required in advance to show what negative events...'. Have you tried proving negative? Not that something's going on, but that something's not happening. How will you prove the negative event? Therefore, this provision is hand-in-hand. Retire her! Bring her in properly. It has potential to improve. I agree - and I say again - with the enlargement of the first and second, but not with these consequences. That would be a positive arrangement without them. Now it's severely negative and extremely problematic. I come to the 'State Front'. First theme: What is pushing you? I heard your answer. This arrangement has a long history. We are talking here about a whole day. He comes to the beginning with the abolition of the law. Apparently, it's bullshit. He's retiring. It then comes with the abolition and resolution of the legal person, without regulating what will happen to workers and property. Second piece of shit. He's retiring. It improves, supposedly, by intervening in a trial pending the deferral. Third shit. He's retiring. He's finally coming up with another, different choice. Within two days, for a major strategic issue, about what will happen, you have made three different choices and ended up in absorption to the EBRD. Since now you are not ready to discuss this, what is it that pushes you? You haven't come up with anything. In two days you have changed three different positions: To close it, to solve it, to be absorbed into the EBRD. That's what happened in the middle of the day. Three different options for the ‘State Front’. Here's how the device is configured now. This is still the order. What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u480	Mr. Voridis, that's what you'll be closing down with, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u481	I shall now conclude, Madam President, and thank you very much for your understanding. What you say in paragraph 3: ‘The EBRD that has absorbed the ‘State Front’ shall be absorbed by the institution of the following paragraph after its establishment’. It is now strongly rejected by the institution that will be set up. How is it now absorbed by the institution that has not been established? Magic! But even if we were to change it and say "It will be absorbed..." - which is the right thing - "by the institution that will be established". Question: Do you not make it and absorb it then, if that's your choice, so that we don't have all the other thoughts and anxiety? It's connected - I'm saying again - and I'm talking about the TIAD. This thing - I say it again, you may not have a sense of timelessness of history and the subject - has a problem. Why? Because these real estates were excluded from the S.H.I.E.L.D. With battle! You come now and you open, without being legally ready, a trachea that will be understood. You are reopening a debate on this subject. For what? You say: "I want in a month to build the company for reasons and societal reasons, etc." Yes, sir! Why don't you fix it in a month and make a decision then?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Voridis, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u483	I am simply finishing with an intervention that I would like to justify the vote. Paragraph 4, which has not changed the new body: ‘The entity to be created will aim to exploit the public property for the benefit of and in the light of the public interest’. These are generally vague. Okay. Below: 'The revenue to be generated will be used - ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - not exclusively - to finance the social policy of the State and to support social security'. First, why don't you take off the "mainly"? Because that leaves the conversation open to the state to do whatever it wants. Second, what do you want with the new real estate management company? The EBRD is 100% state. The sole shareholder for her income is the Greek State. When ETA dividends - the subject of its board of directors - 100% goes into the public pocket, i.e. the state budget. Take it from the state budget and do it whatever you want. What is the need to create a new company that will absorb EBRD, which has absorbed the ‘Security Front S.A.’ in order to make social policy? What do they serve? I beg your pardon, here really all the objections, the questions, the urgent thoughts of this kind, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, remain intact. They have to worry about you. You don't start well. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u484	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. Mr. Gerosios Balaouras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u485	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would make a change. Do not take it as a specific proposal, but as an attempt to give some messages. Because it's the first bill for the relaunching of the economy, I'd write it that way, because there'll be a lot more to follow. It is not right for those Members who say - and I will not name them - that there is a debt settlement here, that this is not a question of reopening the economy. It is wrong because it is proven to be with the millions of people who owe taxes and insurance funds that, without the stress that plays an important role in the economy, they will now have a liquid role, so that they can buy some things for their business, for themselves or for their children, and so it will slowly begin through the multiplier to move the economy. The second thing I would add to the title of the bill is 'the relief of the governments affected by the Memorandum'. I was unlucky earlier because Minister Nadia Valavani was ahead of us, and I cannot speak very much about the bill. But I was more lucky to talk after Mr. Voridis and Mr. Constantinople. Mr. Konstantinopoulos in a cresento - it seems that one of them is transmitting it to the other - aggression, which at the same time reaches the limits of the amok, has unleashed cords even for Mr. Nikos Konstantopoulos. Reporting on a case involving Panathinaikos or Olympiacos - I do not remember exactly - when a large part of Mr Nikos Konstantopoulos's past - which we have to say and stress - was agonistic both in the dictatorship and in the prisons and in the exiles, he said something to soberly harm SYRIZA. The second amok which Mr Constantinople has said is that, for the time we are government, we have not promoted enough. But we're a government for fifty days. Today we are voting on the second important bill. We are not five years like you, Mr. Constantinople, for unleashing Greek society. I'm not going to talk about this in detail. Other Members have said so at other meetings on wages, pensions, on how the low social state or unemployment was completely dispersed. I will just say that we have now overcome all these indicators in history. Worldwide, at a time of peace, no country suffered such calamity nor even in long periods of famine, plague, etc. These things are unprecedented. We have also overcome the recession in America. We are, unfortunately, an originality worldwide. Over this originality of the five-year course in the abyss, we had taxes again, with social empathy and animosity for the non-existent. Mr. Voridis seems to like propaganda, so he's trying to pass messages. So he caught a press release of the Minister of Finance written both in Greek and English. It is obvious that he wrote it in English, because this is where there is a terrible war and a terrible counterfeiting. We saw the recent "toe" video in the Germans. They took it back and corrected it retrospectively, when at least half of Germany's population rose, saying that this was an insult from the Greek Treasury Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, next to the candlestick there is a grill from 'New Aristophanes'. I don't have time to analyse what it looks like. Take a look. It's Harilau Trikoupi's time. It shows what our lenders did and what the Greek people suffered. We, colleagues and colleagues, will not follow the course of subjection, but resistance. This is the first time that in recent years the government has raised its rise against the course of the imperfection of the Greek people, with its feelings and European citizens. We acquired friends who entered the front line of defending our rights. The other day, in the heart of the beast... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u486	As much as Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u487	No, I don't want as much time as Mr. Voridis. I want much less. Yesterday in the heart of the beast, in Frankfurt, tens of thousands were protesting and there were clashes with the police. Where did that happen? Frankfurt. Not Paris, not Rome, not anywhere else, but Frankfurt! We have informed colleagues and colleagues of the whole of Europe, of all the European peoples, of the global community for the crisis. We changed the image that had been cultivated and we "was indifferent". To a certain extent, we also contributed to the image for Greek lazys, Greek thieves, Greek basketballs, Greek lamoyas etc. We have said exactly what the Greeks are and what they are suffering from. Last night we carried the Greek people's breeze to Brussels. We made a red card, as the Prime Minister told the bureaucrats, and I remembered the famous Duto Abbott and Costello. But I cannot fail to note today's self-government again, Mr Samaras, which shows the continuation of the undermining of the rights of the Greek people, fully associated with the cords of the European elite. This is illustrated by a statement this morning that the media say. We've already recorded, ladies and gentlemen, victories. Is it not even symbolic - which is not only symbolic, but has the essence - that there is no hateful word 'troika', that we are negotiating not with officials anymore, but with political persons? Last night our country's Prime Minister was negotiating with seven other faces. We've done a lot so far in the 50 days. There is no such thing as an e-mail Hardouvelis - which has reduced pensions, which has brought up taxes and all of this. There is no longer a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP, and that is important. There is also the start of the economy that some have ironed out. Juncker today at a press conference announced that he would, through the social funds, provide EUR 2.2 billion for the humanitarian crisis in our country. And we have also taken legislative initiatives, such as this and we are talking today, and we will take - do not worry or worry better - and other initiatives on red loans and others. Because we are not a government all the time. We're an incision. That's what we want, and that's what we think, and that's why we're fighting for. I am going to quote Alexis Tsipras' statement today in Brussels. We negotiate, he said, but we rule. I would say, we negotiate and we do not submit. We rule without the mandated commanders from the outside. We're making a cut in the country's political history. We go hand in hand with the feelings and dignity of the Greek people and movements, with the support of the world of work. We have a biased view of the world of work and we are, ladies and gentlemen, very vague in our support. We represent the hope at the same time of the European peoples. We have weapons which are political - we do not have time to talk about them - they are geopoliticalally and most importantly, we are making use of them. Why was Mr Venizelos slamming us this morning for the United States that they are calling and saying their opinion in the European Union, in Merkel and everything else? We were suddenly friends with the Americans, with the U.S. government? Apparently not. What the United States is aware of, because they have a global look at the evolution of the world, either as a spaceguard or as an imperialist, is that a crisis that can erupt and cannot control it, because they have not provoked it themselves, can take its dimensions back and lead them back to recession with geopolitical dimensions and importance. We, with such weapons, with such an army and visions, will win, Not only battles, but the war itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u488	And we thank Mr Balaura. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Social Security Dimitris Army. Mr. Army, you've got 15 minutes. Will you need them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u489	I'm afraid so, unfortunately, but anyway at 20.00 is the roll call, so there's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u490	There are other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u491	If they exist, I'll shorten them up. Of course, even if they are MPs, even better. Thank you very much, Madam President. The first thing I would like to say as an observation is that there has been an effort by MPs, particularly New Democracy, rather than a fundamental debate on the nature of debt regulation to the public and insurance funds, which we are introducing in this bill - which concerns millions of our fellow citizens, but also many businesses, mainly hundreds of thousands of small and very small, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed - have tried to focus confrontation on Articles 21 and 24. I believe that Mrs Valavani, the Minister responsible, has specifically removed all possible arguments, with the improvements she has made to Articles 21 and 24, in order to regain the controversy on the substance. He confirmed once again that for us the question of public property is a taboo issue and that it is registered in the DNA of the Greek people to protect public infrastructure and strategic and social enterprises, because we believe that with them as a lever for development we can make our economy and our society move forward. We understand, of course, why there was no controversy on the substance of the bill. The regulations we are proposing are the right ones and for a whole world the most supportive ones have been in the history of the country. I am also referring to the part, of course, of Mrs Valavani, which has rightly presented it, but above all to the arrangements for debts in insurance funds. In the course of our debate and our political direction, we have also shown that we have brought it in to solve two very big problems, because we have also accepted proposals made by the Opposition and by Members of the New Democracy and PASOK and not only by SYRIZA or ANEL Members, but also by the Communist Party and the Potamian and other parties. However, even those we could not bring, because of the urgent nature of the bill, nor as ministerial amendments, they were brought by legislative improvements and we were faced with real problems. Extremities which exist and proposals which are very correct and fair will come to the next bills in the form of amendments. I would like to make some clarifications and say what the new one is, based on how it was formulated by legislative improvements, because this package of arrangements is the best interest that we are introducing for the insurance funds and why they and those to whom it is addressed. It has been discussed - mainly by Members of the New Democracy and PASOK - that SYRIZA is putting its hands on social security reserves. SYRIZA has not touched and will not touch a single euro of social security reserves. He's the prisoner's money. I have said again as a social security officer that it is the sacred cow, which no one should mind, because it is not his own property. The property and the money are not any government that comes and goes, but the insured themselves and they are not legitimate to say that we put a hand in the reserves, those who have supported governments that literally conquered, defeated the money of the insured, the social security reserves and ended up in 30 billion euros before the PSI, not even half of what was before this disastrous haircut. The amendment I have tabled is not in this bill. Perhaps some New Democracy and PASOK MPs were confused. It was in the previous bill on the humanitarian crisis. Mr Mardas has something to do with the cash available for short-term investments and has nothing to do with the reserves. The amendment he has put forward was precisely to ensure the requirements of the funds, although they want, entirely voluntarily, to the public to be able to decide on the boards of the funds, which IKA has been doing for the same last four years from the 25th to the 1st or 2nd of next month, i.e. investing cash and not reserves, not public money at a very good rate. I therefore do not think those who have contributed, tolerated or supported politically or voted to plunder the property and reserves of the insurance funds to make us even more critical of what they themselves have done. He said Mr Brutsis - he is not here at the moment - that the basic arrangements for the debts in insurance supports them, but has made an assessment that he will not pay off. I, because I always invoke evidence and because of the very presence of Mr Brutsis was one and a half months before me, have the official document submitted to Parliament and to the General Accounting Office of the State by the Ministry's Directorate-General for Economic Affairs. According to this document, the expected revenues for this year - since the good vote and by a large majority, I believe, this bill in this House - will be 1,46 billion, because we take into account, of course, that those who were in this regulation will also be integrated into it, as it is more favourable. We did not say that since the previous regulation the government did not collect revenue. I never said that as a competent minister in the two days' controversy. He's earned revenue. We're just saying ours is more improved. In relation to what the previous government had gathered last year with the regulation it had made, based on the 1.46 I am giving you, the competent agencies estimate it will be around 400 million more. It's not about flying, Mr. Georgiadis, expecting a regulation that you're doing more than the government would have had with the previous regulation for this year. I'm telling you, because you're constantly asking me where I'm going to find the money so I won't reduce supplementary pensions. I don't think it's for you or anyone that it's for throwing. The previous Minister for Labour has already admitted it, Mr Brutsi. Mr. Brutsis is not here, but to tell him that by the end of the medium term, that is until the beginning of 2019, it is estimated that the revenue for each year will be about EUR 500 million, because there are a hundred instalments for whoever chooses them and you know that a hundred instalments by him last for eight and a few years. We are therefore officially answering this. Mr Brutsis had said about fines, where we delete the surcharges, not to delete the fines for tax evasion and violations of labour law. It is a common place, which is why in the bill we have set a specific phrase in the arrangement that says that the surcharges are excluded from the deletion of autonomous fines. They are the fines imposed by the APRC and the IKA's audit services. So we agree and we do. Alas, we should reward for tax evasion and black work, and indeed for its government, which is a force of the radical left. Mr Kammenos made very good remarks on Rule 31. I don't know if he's here. We've improved the article. We wanted them to have, in the event of bankruptcy, merger and so on, various top business executives and not backed up by eighty and eighty-five people. He and other Members from both SYRIZA and New Democracy, from PASOK and others, as well as the rapporteur of the New Democracy, have pointed out, not to put the members of the board of directors or shareholders in trouble. Legislative improvement has made the members of the boards. We got out, as you saw, and the shareholders. And they're only CEOs, presidents who are legally responsible for the operation and so forth. But it's a vedal, so that the workers or the IKA, who have the claims, can't find the barren eighty-five years old who just put them on this job. Therefore, we have corrected that, too. What Mr Kegeroglu said to put into the favourable regulation we are doing for the public, local authorities, the whole range of agricultural cooperatives. We brought it today with the legislative improvement. We talked in the morning about private-law welfare institutions, which do have a problem. I contacted him, so we can see what a legal improvement we'd make. However, in the course of the procedure I and the competent authorities have also seen that an improved eighty-eight-dollar arrangement had been made at the Ministry, and we said that we were keeping this arrangement. We've already agreed. Now, let me actually go to the point and tell you why we call on the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament of all the parties to vote for the bill and, above all, because it concerns me - and the part concerning the arrangements for debts to the insurance funds. The first is that with what we are proposing, we consider that we will receive accumulated overdue insurance contributions to insurance companies. The picture I have - and I asked today - is that it is about a million debtors. They owe the insurance funds EUR 15,216 000,950 principal debt. Increments are 6,303,000,000 euros. I mean, it's not about flying. The other is when you erase it either whole increments or 80%, 70%, 60% or 50% are actually breathtaking, because it is a very large part. So that's where we want to give back to the insurance funds. We know that the policies of the memorandum and the austerity have lost revenue, it is great that unemployment, one and a half million unemployed do not make contributions to the lack of insurance funds, wage cuts mean a reduction in insurance contributions, a generalization of elastic forms of four-hour and three-hour working, and therefore we need those which have lost these funds over the five years, as is the 5% reduction in employers' contributions from the previous government, to find a way of being replaced. The second is that we are giving the same people who have to take the burden off them, who does not let them have insurance and continue their business or personal action. And that is why we say that at the same time as the relief of the incomes of the insurance funds, it is also a relief for the small, very small, small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed to continue their economic activity. The title therefore states: '... to relaunch the economy'. It is, that is, a factor to reboot. How much more time do I have, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u492	You have time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u493	Good. So now, what are the differences from previous regulations and why are we calling for the vote of all Members and Members? The first is that the arrangement covers all debts, irrespective of the amount of debt. The hundred instalments were granted for debts of up to EUR 15,000 since the last government regulation. Now, the limit doesn't exist and they can do more. They were criticised for putting them in more than EUR 1 million. We are also putting over EUR 1 million in order to finally get some sort of regulation, but we are at the same time abolishing charismatic regulations, which were - and I will mention them below - for his grandeurs over EUR 1 million. We say 'all in a regulation, it for all, business and natural persons'. There were graceful regulations and laws, such as, for example, Article 48 of Law 3943 of 2011 that we are abolishing with this bill, which enabled grandeurs to make adjustments of four hundred years. We are therefore abolishing this regulation and very transparently we say 'Everyone there'. Secondly, the repayment rate you know that with the regulation of the previous government it was 4.56%, and with the bill we say that for those who owe up to EUR 5,000, no interest rate annually, as long as they are regulated. Since it is over 5,000 euros, instead of 4.56%, it becomes 3%." Thirdly, with the legislative improvements that we have made today, we have accepted Mr Petrakos, Mr Brutsi, Mr Kammenos and other Members - not to blame them - for making more scales. I have announced that from three scales we are doing five and we say: if anyone pays one-off, they will have a 100% reduction in increments. If you do one to thirty-six instalments, you will have 80% reduction in fees, interest, etc. If anyone makes from thirty-seven to fifty-dose doses, it will have 70% delete the increments. If someone makes fifty-one to seventy-two doses, it will have 60% reduction in increments. And if he makes seventy-three to a hundred instalments, he will have 50% write-off of the surcharges, compared with 20% in the last regulation of the previous government. Therefore, we have a "bouquet" of choices, which really enable those who are "with the knife in the neck", at least by their neck to take it off. We also did this: we gave the possibility of adjusting up to recent debts, that is, those that became due on 2-3 2015. I say this for colleagues and colleagues who were not in the House at noon when I announced it. It is no longer for those who are late on February 1, 2015, but all Flevaris has entered in this story, and so they can also be due and their February contribution to regulate it, as against October 1, 2014, which was the previous arrangement. I have also said so beforehand, to those who were in recent government or government regulations, to join the new regulation and to explain to the committee how it is not considered prosthetics to 'pay back so much, plus a hundred'. The difference between the ones who paid from the hundreds. We've changed the condition of joining. It is therefore a prerequisite for it to make its contributions in March. We had set ourselves as a prerequisite for the current contributions from February and March. We also take February out and say: Be consistent and give the current contributions in March, because we have been told the difficulties that many free professionals have. It may also submit its request by 30 April 2015. In a question which I have just received, I said that it will be done electronically. At a meeting I had with the HICP today, they told me that by next Friday the electronic platform would be ready, so they could be served. We have also made it possible for those with zero income in 2014 to be able to regulate until 31 March 2016 and at the same time to lift all the measures that had been taken, such as collecting measures, prosecutions and others, against them. Also - as I said before - by special provision we make it easier to repay debts to the insurance funds, to legal persons governed by public law, to local authorities, cooperatives, to public institutions, etc. 50 doses and 50% delete the increment. We also meet a request. I would like to stress this because today is a historic day and that is all. It's a historic day. All parties have said that they agree on this. We proceeded with the decriminating of the debts of the free professionals and self-employed persons to their insurance funds, the OAU and the EIB, who were criminalised if they owed their own contributions to their own insurance fund and their greatest punishment was that they would not receive a pension for their own fund. We exclude it for those who have retained workers' contributions and have not paid them - that is normal - but for their own contribution to the insurance fund. It was the mandatory law 86 of the junta of 1967. The GFCMs, the EUSMs and their institutions have fought for decades now to abolish this. Today, by voting, I believe, in this article by all Greek Members, it will be abolished. Also, in his argument, which makes sense, 'yes, the regulation is favourable, but do we have the current ones, how do we respond'? which many free professionals say, we give an additional possibility of the two insurance categories that the previous government had given until 31 December 2016, of going down an insurance category - thus giving less - for another insurance category, so the monthly contribution or the bimonthly - that the free professions give it - is limited. I said we're open to free choice. The new commander to take over, Mr. Tasos Petropoulos, the approved worker, the first to announce that he will do his work is a proportionate study to see how he can proceed and if he can move on. I believe that we can, but we can also see it from a proportionate study. From there on, we have made some clarifications, such as the relationship between the debtors to the CRL or the insurance funds, deadlines, etc. We solve the problem with the trade unions, whose workers were closed down, absorbed, merged, and when they claimed either their jobs and wages or the IKA - their debts - were in front of long-age strawmen. The "big age" you know, he has the imprisonment, because they can't get in jail and hide business leaders from behind. So we solve this and expand this bouquet of those responsible and with their personal property so that we can find a point. I also told you that Article 34 abolishing a charismatic provision in December 2014, according to which the IKA, not only if it made a final decision on the employee's pay for late payments to the company, should take into account the judicial decision in order to establish insurance contributions, to make an insurance contribution operation in the result of a final decision, but the photographic provision of December 2014 also allowed it to take into account, if there was a compromise. You know that workers - not to say which companies - even eight and a half years claim entrepreneurially. "With the knife in the neck" "once, something will take" could easily be subjected to extortion to make an extrajudicial compromise that does not owe them the company 20 million but 5 million and IKA instead of making contributions to the 20 million that it owes them to make contributions to 5 million, to withdraw enforcement actions, etc. This regulation was very polite, and that is why it is being abolished. I urge you again to vote on the bill. We believe that this bill proves in practice, my dear colleague, friend and comrade Nikos Philie, that the government will not only implement its programme literally, but is already starting to apply it literally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u494	You didn't tell us about the oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u495	Madam President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u496	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u497	The controversy with the New Democracy on this amendment has the elements of political rationalism. Mr Georgiadis opposed yesterday to me on the issue of this amendment to which you are referring. SYRIZA had characterized her as graceful, opposed to the House, had requested a roll-call vote, and Nikos Friends, who was then director of "World" had it headlined. The New Democracy's Controversy I understand. Adonis Georgiadis came with whom I have chaotic political and ideological differences, but with arguments he said: 'Mr. Army, we believe that the amendment is correct and because it is right, you will not withdraw it'. I answered why he's not at the edge of political rationalism. But, my dear fellow Member, Mr Odysseus Constantinople, you are coming to the right place, the PASOK Members who, for four meetings, did not vote for this amendment, because you considered it to be graceful. Your Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Koukulopoulos, went up with us on the table and disagreed. You came with the fifth vote of the two-thirds of the PASOK Members to vote on it. I don't understand. It is not within the limits of rational political speech and confrontation. These are other things. And you who voted for SYRIZA today, for what you voted for and thought it was right, because ten days that the House is open did not bring an amendment to abolish it. The practical answer is Article 21 proposed by Mrs Nadia Valavani, the Minister responsible. It shows the way that in triangular transactions SYRIZA will do what it needs and every scoundrel will go to his counter. I don't understand you. If you feel guilty those of you who voted for it, go out with a public self-criticism and say "we voted for a charismatic arrangement". A part of the people can forgive you. But not transfer responsibility to us for something that you have voted on and we have strongly opposed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u498	Mrs Valvain has the floor to announce a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u499	I'm sorry, Madam President. It was mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u500	You don't have the floor, Mr. Constantinople. Mrs Valvaani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u501	It is a legislative improvement, which came to me from various aspects, including Mr Besiropoulos. I didn't hear that part because I was gone at that time. It has to do with the integration of debts into local government, first and second grades. Next to the respective words - debts - to OTAs (a) and (b) are added the word 'and legal persons of them'. Once again, it says: ‘For these debts, the application shall be submitted to the competent authority of the relevant TAA’, the words ‘or the legal person concerned’ shall be added. This is to cover businesses like the JHA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u502	Mr. Constantinople, for half a minute you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u503	I would like to ask the SYRIZA Members and the Minister, who said that it was a charismatic provision brought by the government and which we voted on. We said we thought it was right. He described it as a charitable provision to Mr Vardinoyannis and to Mr Latsis. I ask: will the government make an amendment to this graceful provision, which will change it and return the money to the public or just avenge us and keep the money, as Mr Vardinoyannis and Mr Latsis himself said? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u504	Madam President, it's out of order. We've been here so long and we're saying the same thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u505	Just, Mr. Constantinople, the question of doing so to Mr. Venizelos, who told you on the fifth time to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u506	So you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u507	Wait a minute. Two parliamentary representatives have not been posted. Because I have also been asked for the floor by two Ministers, but the parliamentary representatives who have not been present at all are waiting all day long, I would ask the Ministers to make it easier and to give the floor to the two parliamentarians who have not spoken at all for six minutes, and then the ministers who want to be present will be given the floor. Mr. Panayotus, you have a total of nine minutes at your disposal. Do you want to use all nine minutes now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u508	I'll use it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u509	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, Madam President. As a parliamentary representative of the other parties - according to a Minister's statement - before I begin, I should also like to comment on what some previous speakers have said, in particular, on what has been said by some parties that have been running for for forty years now, beginning with PASOK, which we feel is not entitled to speak for any reason whatsoever. The Venizelos PASOK, which is considered by everyone as the largest criminal organization in Greece - and not just - for everything he has done in this country in recent years, criminal in particular. Today they must be paid - apart from the rest of our country's taco-circular debts, for which they have agreed to various "Yesens" of policy - and EUR 165 million to GOLDMAN SACHS as part of interest on interest on debts. This was signed in 2001 on the stimulus of Simitis and with Luke Papademos as Governor of the Bank of Greece. It was agreed then to reduce our country's public debt, which was a prerequisite for our country's accession to the Eurozone paradise and tombstone of the national currency. According to this agreement, which has been kept secret for two years - until 2003, that is to say, until we enter a feast with false data in the Eurozone - we have received EUR 2.8 billion and the various interest rates by 2039, we have to pay 13 billion - very good deal - through a dazzling interest-rate swap system, offshore companies and say. In 2012, Lucas Papademos Prime Minister and Venizelos Minister was considered to belong to a particular category of debt, which in the course of the course seemed to have been delusional, because shortly afterward PSI was not included in the haircut, while the bonds of the CEC, the insurance funds, the micronomists and all individuals were tired. To remember, too, the PASOK is responsible for the n. 2801/1998 on Siti and Giannos Papantoniou Minister for Economic Affairs. Let's remember the former Minister of PASOK, Mr. Anthopoulos, accused of tachographing - after all they liked them - to remember the suitcases of Tsukatos, the hatreds...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u511	Not for crimes and murders.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u512	No one's ever been accused of murders on us. Mr. Gregoraco, none of us are accused of murders, and it's gonna turn out to be a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u513	You're charged with murders.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u514	We don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u515	Mr. Gregoraco, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u516	Not us. Whoever is accused, punished and gone to jail. Now sit down and quiet. Not to talk about the Tsukatos misery that was part of the hates, because the other mixed party of the New Democracy, according to Christoforikos with his complaints and his statements, went there with the rest of the haters. Let's not talk about Papantoniou, about Chohazopoulou, about Papaconstantinou on the Lagard list again, about Venizelos with the submarines, along with Papaconstantinou and go by and say. For contracts with "HOCTIEF" under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u517	Not for murder!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u518	Don't yell! You're handwriting. Sit down now and don't talk at all! It hurts. We know. For agreements with HOCTIEF, where the first agreement was made under English law and disputes with Luxembourg courts will be challenged. That is why the "HOCHTIEF" has taken 500 million euros from the Greek people, through VAT, which it did not pay to the Greek public and we cannot afford this money to get it back because of the agreements signed by your people. This money is now being asked for by the Greek people, with all these ruthless things happening and going on saying. We must not, of course, talk about Mr Theocharis' derogatory line on Mr Mathaiopoulou. Yes, he was the conciliator who rejoicedly served all that New Democracy and PASOK decided. The party, which is basically the spokesman for the largest interconnector, Bobola, of the name that Mrs Valavani could not say, the day before yesterday that was provoking it in committee. SYRIZA started election, and for at least three years he talked loudly, talked about humility, talked about accounting control of all these debts, as we said before, of the disgusted bonds signed by PASOK and the New Democracy. You were talking about haircuts, you were talking about the mortgage loan where with the "string through the engagement" you go and forget about it and that or pay a minimum price in relation to the real cost. You were talking about the war damages, you said that the Minister, in his honor, will sign his right to demand the money that has been ordered in the case of the Bistom. Why don't you do it? Since the right thing is on our side, it should have been done on the part of Greece and not be the product of any transaction. There goes the burning, the tearing of the memorials, everything goes. Unfortunately, of all that you went to the agreement of 20 February, which we are trying to see what it says within Greece, what it says outside Greece. The point is that this is a memorial, regardless of whether you have baptized it otherwise, for control by the troika, regardless of whether you have baptized it otherwise. Suddenly you became exaggerated religious, many of the baptized ones in relation to everything that has been done. The truth will be seen in the official Eurogroup text in English, which if you translate it, in whatever way you translate it, you will see what it is about. We hope that after four months you will disprove us, but we are very afraid that this will not happen. Also, the most tranquil proof that this agreement is a memorandum, is the reactions of Mr Georgiadis, the largest fan, the enthusiast of the memorials, who is enthusiastic, supportive, and supportive, and unfortunately, you have nothing to say. And we reached the tripartite yesterday's decisions, where, under the Eurogroup agreement of 20 February 2015, the Greek authorities will be responsible for implementing the reforms. You haven't told us who. You haven't brought it up yet. It's been so long. We are not talking about voting. Leave that, it's okay. We don't know what's going on with this case. We also read somewhere else about what happened yesterday, the talks, that the compromise that, as SPIEGEL comments, has saved the pretexts, is on two levels in order to keep the agreement of 20 February alive. The country's Prime Minister is invited to present a package of reforms - which will be voted on immediately to free the profits - or part of them - of the central banks of EUR 1.9 billion. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras assured the creditors that the government will present, as soon as possible, a list of reforms that will unlock the last dose, providing Greece liquidity, as time counts backwards. Today's draft law, entitled: "Consolidation of the relaunching of the economy", is not exactly a bill to relaunch the economy, it is lacking, it has more to do with partial relief. We hope that as many as possible will be relieved. We shall vote in favour of it in principle. We're going to vote on all the issues that have to do with the hundred doses. We'll report later on what we'll do with some unrelated articles. We do not see proposals for the relaunching of the economy, a development law that will deal with primary production, its resumption, protection, development, which will protect Greek products, Greek workers, Greek services from anything foreign and imported. We hope that we will not be accused of racism, that Panthenaikis will not be called through Babi to prosecute us for a new prosecution. Clearly, we do not see any moves in relation to the ESDP, which is for a few, for very few of them so far. They are huge funds for twenty - thirty people who are the owners of all the companies that are basically sewing all the projects. There is nothing to be done about subsidising all of this. We expect how and how to see what is going to happen with this famous debt offset, which the entire trader is asking for - and not just - people. Very important is that we do not see you taking measures to protect the Greeks from the banks. They are the only ones who have benefited from several years from 2009 to now by continuing recapitalisation, without giving a single euro to the real economy, with the ambiguity of the bankers, with that amendment for which the Golden Dawn has now tabled an amendment for its abolition. He will be read later and we hope to see what we mean. You remember that three New Democracy Members suddenly brought an amendment from nowhere to defend bankers who gave sea-loving to the parties. Finally, there must be immediate implementation of the laws, such as Article 95 of the Constitution, paragraph 5, which states that the administration has an obligation to comply with judicial decisions and there are now hundreds of banks in favour of the banks. As provided for in Article 281 of the Civil Code, as it had done temporarily in 2008 by Ministerial Decision, Mr Folias, FEK 1353, who said the above, but who went missing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. Forgive me. If you do not audit the debt that after that will follow a large section haircut, as you were saying. And it is done, Mr Georgiadis, that has been done in other countries and it has been done legally and has been achieved, as long as there is a philosopher, as long as there is love for the law, as long as there are conditions that we are waiting for, but unfortunately, we do not see there being. A loan that is not EUR 11 billion must be immediately required, but is EUR 100 billion, documented. We're the only country we haven't taken. All the other countries that had signed a forced loan with Germany have taken it, while Greece has not taken anything at all. One provision: because in four months' time, the 20th-February deal, probably after all these months, will end the lies and we will find who is telling the truth and who is lying. Then we will also see the great convergence that has slowly begun to be sprung by many in various ways SYRIZA - New Democracy and other democratic forces. As an overlap, I repeat that all this needs courage, boldness, pilgrimage and passion for fairness, without putting it on the scale to see whether we can or cannot. So don't ask yourself why the Golden Dawn isn't falling. Up, it is a third political force, despite all the dirty measures that have been used by various parapolitical, outlawing circles, you make all this part of what the Golden Dawn says that you have in many cases copied it in various areas, but you do not actually apply it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u519	Mr Constantine Scandalides has the floor. Immediately after Mr. Stathakis is ready. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u520	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the PASOK and our special speaker, as well as the colleagues who have spoken, have done a very thorough and complete position on all issues relating to the bill, but also on the general political and economic context in which he comes for this debate in this House. I shall confine myself to three brief comments relating to them: the first with the bill, the second with the meeting and the problems or the prospects it creates the last and third for the government's public speech. As far as the bill is concerned, we are voting for it, Mr Army, and we are aware that the work you have done and that you are doing is a great deal of work, and we are honouring this work and voting for it, because it is improved on some issues from the previous regulation, simply prolongs the previous regulation and brings some significant improvements, and that is why we are voting for it and we are going further. The purpose of the bill is, of course, not to relaunch the economy. It has nothing to do with this. It is to receive some revenue at a critical moment where their continued reduction is causing a growing problem. What was the revenue course in recent months? I think that the government should have brought very specific data on the revenue pattern, because that is really the problem it is creating. Also, today we also see the persistent attempt to prosecute four million debtors to come to pay when we pre-electionally called them "do not pay". I believe that this contradiction will accompany this government and the next critical months. So the real problem of the relaunching of the economy is not tackled by this bill, and that is why the government should consider these more general developments. Really, it's linked to that and the meeting that took place yesterday. Because if the last month programme had been implemented, it would have been very reasonable not to do so, it would have been a typical Eurogroup procedure. And if the government had convinced our partners, there would have been an agreement, without all these barbaric and large meetings, which are otherwise common and are made at steady times at a time. The second comment, therefore, I would like to make, concerns what the Prime Minister said yesterday, that the country and the programme entered orbit. First of all, if time is not exploited, it is clear that everything that wins in time loses it in money. Every week the government wins by thinking that it is earning time to transfer the problem of the big decision, which has not decided whether it will be a break or whether it will be an honest compromise, it says, a month is lost for the country. That is the ratio, unfortunately. What exactly happened yesterday? Firstly, it has been confirmed that the debate is taking place for 30% of the programme, what you were exorcising, because some of your officials, including the Minister of Finance, have put it at some point. It is not all the issues relating to the substance of the programme and what you have presented as an alternative programme. Secondly, with regard to the reform agenda, there is no substantial response to the reforms. Mr Varoufakis' original proposal was obviously insufficient, because it is not costly and does not cover the areas that he needs. That is why I have heard the Prime Minister say today that they have not given us limited time, obviously because this pre-required processing is not even started, so that there is a serious and responsible proposal for all the reforms. That is why the Greek people must compare today's statements by Mr Tsipras with the statements by our European partners and Mrs Merkel, so that we can understand what happened yesterday. Because it is clear that measures that do not have political costs cannot be taken when costly reforms mean and require budgetary efficiency measures. The question is what the mixture is. For the mixture you say absolutely nothing. You are persistently repeating certain pursuits, which are outside reality. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] The previous government has set some red lines. I want to know the real red lines you are talking about with our European partners. That puts me in a great deal of thought when you have not brought the agreement here to discuss it, because that is exactly where you are concerned. It is not just creative ambiguities, it is not just that there is an internal problem, it is also that it will be revealed from this debate that you have not set the red lines that were electionally claimed to be possible in these debates. I come to the third point, which is, in my opinion, the most serious and I would ask you to pay attention. After yesterday's developments, unfortunately, a dangerous game continues, which concerns the government's public speech. You need to fold and change tactics. We live in a war of impressions, a war of words and titles. Another public word inside the country, another way out. At a time when information is transmitted in dt time it is absolutely certain that whatever is said, wherever it is said, is immediately a processing element for the whole world. You managed to bring Greece to the forefront positive or negative. In my opinion, it has been a long time since you started with very high hopes. However, it is clear that now whatever we say is entirely in line with what everyone hears. I say this because it's nice to be in the news and in the frontline of international and domestic publicity, and it's nice to talk about you and talk about you. It is very bad, however, for the interests of the country to deal with you in the way they have been facing the country in the last few days, all the powers, friends and hostiles that exist in the world. Leaving out of words and resorting to the essence of things, there is something else worrying. There is a great deal of evidence within the government. They are those who support a truly multi-dimensional foreign policy and are those who support a strategy that touches on non-existent alternatives and on non-existent alternatives. Undo it, gentlemen of the government, because the country will be in danger. It will be at risk when the country is cultivated that there are alternatives outside European reality and the European perspective. There's no alternative path. The second point, to close, is this public speech. It is this controversy that is taking place these days in the House and, in essence, it degrades all forms of discussion and political culture in Parliament. Let us stop separating Greek traitors and patriots. Let us stop talking about memorial and antimonetary when you see in practice that what you seek is a review of certain aspects of the Memorandum Recipe. So why not sit down all the political forces of the democratic arch together, set the red lines, strengthen the government's effort, when it gives these battles and negotiates - it is supposed - to be hard for the interests of the country. Why not strengthen the negotiating power of the government, through a consensus and consensus, above these conflicts, which eventually led Greece and after the elections to continue the same way of confronting it before them? I, therefore, believe that even now, although it seems too late for you to back off, you can do behind certain conditions and I hope that the most mindful in your party will lead you to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u521	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. From now on, so that you know - and especially those colleagues who want to make the last flight, and they need to know the time - two ministers, Mr Stathakis, will speak for 15 minutes and Mr Varoufakis will speak for eighteen minutes. The time of the denology of Mr. Scandalidis and Mr. Panayotarou was integrated into the protology. They will speak - I do so in reverse, as usual - Mr Kokkalis, Mr Pafilis, Mrs Lyberakis, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Petrakos, if they wish, three minutes. The issue of the roll-call vote at first, which was requested by the Golden Dawn, has not been introduced and this has been cleared up since this morning. Then there remains the roll-call vote for four articles, for which the New Democracy has applied and which we are closing. That's the process from now on. Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor. You will, of course, oblige us if you do not exhaust all fifteen minutes, not those in Athens, but those in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u522	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from Mr Vorides' position that the opposition refuses to criticise the government's policy on substance, namely whether the decision of 20 February was an important decision on the country's course and whether the confirmation, last night, of the course opened by the agreement of 20 February, is indeed an important step. So they are not criticising - which I would have expected - in last night's decision or in the government's strategy. It is very simple for our strategy - to remind you of it - that the country can abandon the monumental policies and securely lead to a strategic and economic policy that will bring Greek society and economy out of the stadium. This is our strategy. There, then, when I expected her to criticise last night's decision, she criticizes the translation. In other words, it takes the English text, tells us that we speak bad Greek, that we do not know how to translate our English communications and come back for a long time by demagogating to the accuracy of the words used in the English or Greek text. But this great shift from substance to translation, if anything suggests a demagogic mood, a mood of puny and a failure to criticise the substance. This same strategy has also been chosen for the issues - to which I will be speaking for a while - which concern this bill. This bill has two important issues. He has the debts of the Greek citizens. This is a large and important part which is imported, as is the case with insurance contributions. This is this bill. However, I will dwell on the two issues, which seem to have dominated the anti-population strategy, Article 24 and Article 21. Let me begin with Article 24, interpret the government's original intention. The Coastal Front, Mr Voridis, is not an angelic company, as you presented it yesterday, a company which, as you said, is profitable, does its job perfectly, and what the government can do with it, with the intention of dismantling it. For the reason of the truth, I do not want to go into details of the way the "State Front" was founded, about the way the "State Front" was manned and about what it has done in previous years. And I insist on that. Because suddenly showing the image that the 'Training Front' - what was made on your day, in the way it was made and in the goals it was made and in the practice it has implemented - in this form, in this way, and in this way of operation is defending the public interest and the SYRIZA Government is coming to disguise a structure, because it conceals - or defends - business interests, it is a criticism - I repeat - excessive, unfair and in any case not in the intentions or the way that this government operates. I would like to remind you that there is not only one interest group against the 'State Front'. There are many interest groups and between them and through the 'State Front'. I think it's clear what I'm saying. If you want, let me repeat it. Around the "Order Front" there is no conflicting interest group against the "Order Front", but many interest groups - Mr.Georgiadis is fully aware of the complexity of the issue - some of which used the "State Front" to promote their interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u523	I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u524	So our intention is very clear. We want to clear up the company, and of course - by continuing all the trials it has - to transfer the essence of the 'Maritime Front', that is, the public land that it manages, to a new shape. That was our intention. In the circumstances of severe criticism and suspicion - I repeat, suspicion! - that this may want to be done for any reason, in order to serve any implied interests and move within a grey zone, we have withdrawn the concept of liquidation and have, as it is, incorporated the company into another shape. And we have instructed two ministers to proceed with this process until a new scheme has been set up which is compatible with the objectives and objectives of the current government. I would remind you, however, and I tell you straight away: the company will be absorbed and it does not mean that the company will not be controlled for all its activities. I repeat. It will be checked for all its things in order to restore the concept of the truth to the way this company worked. It is therefore rejected as well as sworn accountants will control the company and a number of other issues which are considered to be in dispute will come to the light of publicity. Therefore, given the solution chosen, I do not think there is any other criticism of the way, which removes any suspicion, distant or other, about the objectives of the government. I live in "mainly" or "exclusively". The objectives of the new scheme, the current form taken by this bill, as well as the future, are to decide directly that the destination will not be the service through the existing GIDE in the old form of public debt. They will be committed to serving social objectives, above all social policy. There are other purposes similar. Not exclusive, similar to that. I think that we need a very broad concept of'mainly' to 'exclusively', to use these resources for something that is diametrically contrary to social policy, in the broadest sense. The "mainly" therefore refers to the objectives. The lack of ‘exclusive’ may have other similar objectives close to the central objective clearly defined by the law. Therefore, the idea that, behind this development of the company now in a single entity with the other property operator in any way conceals the integration of the public land and its management into the former regime, what the former government very importantly defended, i.e. its management by the GOI, is in any way dismissed by this provision. Let me turn to Rule 21. Again, the demagogic dimension is strong, because I recall that Mr. Voridis says: "The law in force has two categories, which are potentially subject to triangular relations, the first and the second." This article adds two other categories, c and d. In other words, they are companies that exist as companies, but have not complied with the way in which the documents are issued in a particular procedure, in accordance with the Code of Taxation or companies that do not have any organisation or are virtual companies. That's the first charge. I remind you that Mr. Voridis accepts the third and the fourth. He didn’t say, ‘ Take off the third and the fourth, there’s no, it’s an additional process that you wrongly do.’ He says: ‘ I accept both the third and the fourth. ’ Indeed, the first and second were incomplete, add the third and the fourth, all good so far." So, if we accept all four categories exactly as they stand, then the issue arises from the Qualified Opposition, because it is given the dimension that it is a universal application of all businesses, regardless of (a), (b), (c), (d) as defined by the law. It is not universal in nature, it is clearly formulated on the basis of four categories of companies, two previous and two added, to which - I repeat - the Civic Opposition has no objection. Therefore, from there on, there is no need to criticise the fact that an unsurpassed problem arises and huge problems arise, despite the improvements we have made for the length of time. The law refers only to these four categories of companies. I repeat that we are here to solve problems, not to create problems. It is to solve the problem of triangular relations, not to create a problem for any normal company that does not engage in triangular relations. I think that the newer decisions of the Minister of Finance, which will regulate the procedures, will actually look and testify that this application of the article will concern only in the narrow sense of Category A, B, C and D and that it will have no impact on companies carrying out these activities, but they do not fall within these clearly defined four categories. I repeat that, if we actually accept the accusations that fall under the law, we cannot be demagogled from there and beyond on something that concerns the procedure by which this way of control is exercised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u525	Restraint is the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u526	For the retention, Minister, not for the charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u527	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u528	Can you answer that? Not the other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u529	In other words, we have a deal. This is a disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u530	So if we look at the procedures in which you agree - or disagree - what does it say? That when I trade - practically I will tell you - with a virtual company that does not exist, which is on these islands and, I repeat, it is virtual, it has no workers, it has no capital, it has nothing, then this transaction falls under an advance procedure of a tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u531	You're telling us the advance now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u532	When he does the real business, what are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u533	You're Minister of Development. For those who will close, you must not take responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u534	Wait a minute. The application - I repeat - of a procedure with a virtual company imposes - that's what the law says - on the advance payment of a tax. If the virtuality of this procedure proves, then the tax operates in favour of the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u535	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u536	If it is not proven, is it returned?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u537	If this virtuality is not demonstrated, this process returns. So the law here in advance requires - I repeat - tax advance only for companies that strictly fall under categories (a), (b), (c) and (d). And I repeat that the closeness or the way in which it will be implemented and implemented lies in the interpretation of the Minister of Finance. I am thinking: The criticism that is being made at the moment - I repeat - is losing much of the substance of this bill. Both on the coastal front and on Article 21, and, above all, on the whole of the policy and the issues raised in the bill, there is an obvious impossibility for the Anti-Population to enter into substance and to exercise the criticism it is required to exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u538	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, sixty students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Igoumenitsa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before I summon the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, I would like to inform you that on the initiative of Mr Metropoulou and the other Bureau and in consultation with the President of the Parliament, as well as the Secretary-General of the parties, the committees that were on Monday and Tuesday are on Thursday and Friday, and I think we are giving the country's colleagues an opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u539	On Monday's parliamentary control will not be postponed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u540	Mr. Kegeroglu, I don't think that will happen either, but until we close, we'll have told you. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u541	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no accident that the draft law we are debating today comes immediately after the humanitarian crisis bill. Both of these bills would have no reason to exist if the poverty of a very large, unfortunately, proportion of the Greek people hadn't preceded in the past five years. We would not be talking about a humanitarian crisis, we would have no reason to legislate on the overdue debts in the way we are doing today. We are doing so because in the last five years we have been staying in global economic history as an example for the future generations, for the next governments of Europe, for the European institutions worldwide, as an example of how an economic crisis should not be dealt with. It is not only the impressive amount of 76 billion outstanding debts showing the scale of the problem - an amount which accounts for about 42% of the country's GDP - nor the fact that since mid-2013 the government's debts have been increased on average over 1 billion per month. This was the success story since mid-2013. But the saddest thing - I think you have heard it, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Valvani, has explained it to you, but it is worth once again stressing it - is our three and a half million fellow citizens, this wide mass of society that owes less than EUR 3 000 each and cannot repay and be forced out of the official economy essentially. It is the other side of the humanitarian crisis that these ruthless figures are. It highlights the poverty, the despair of millions of Greeks, who may not be homeless, may hide their desperation from dignity, but their silence is deafening. To these people, these victims of the economic disaster that has hit the country in recent years are addressed by the bill. Some called it a falsification, accusing the government of abolishing the three advantages we inherited from the previous government. What are these? The primary surplus, positive growth rates and strong banks. That's how I heard from Mr. Venizelo. If it was not so great to regret the situation we have received, perhaps I too would be in favour of a parliamentary - if you would like - dispute in this regard. I won't. I shall speak frankly to common sense, to look at one by one of these three arguments. Let's look at the primary surplus. Despite the huge bleeding of those who could not indulge in tax evasion, 3% of the primary surplus made by the previous government proved to be 0.6%. That's positive, too. I do not want to reduce the importance of even a small primary surplus. But the championship of the primary surpluses, which we have heard in the last year, has proved to be carbon. I would particularly like to refer to the positive rate of growth. It is true that towards the end of 2014 there was an increase in real GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, what is real GDP? It's a fraction. In its numerator, we have nominal GDP, GDP in euros, the euros in its pocket. In the denominator we have the price index, the average values. And the numerator and the denominator are falling. In 2014 every quarter, every month, the whole year we had a decrease in nominal GDP, i.e. total income in euro. The numerator was down. What happened to raise the fraction - in terms of very simple arithmetic - was that average prices fell faster. This, as an economic phenomenon, is not the definition of recovery or stabilisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u542	Go to university... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u543	It's the definition of a great recession. Maybe some people need to know here. Listen to it, it won't hurt you. As the nominal income, of which both private and public debt must be repaid, is reduced and all that happens is that prices are falling further, we have the definition of what happened in the 1930s. It's funny to think that's a recovery sample. And you know what? It's also insulting to the people who suffer. As for the banks, the President of the Stavros Theodorakis is right when he says - as we do, and I think all of us - that there will be no reopening of the economy without banks capable of financing healthy - particularly export - companies, which is impossible to do at the expense of a vast proportion of red loans and when there is an absolute connection between red loans and outstanding debts to the public. Today, with the draft legislation under discussion, we are launching the only solution that can be found with regard to the public debts of a population that comes under this ongoing self-supporting crisis, which broke out in 2010 and which the Memorandum policies have fuelled and strengthened with such disastrous enthusiasm. As well as those who have been ruling over the last five years, however hardworking they have been in trying to implement these policies, they have had no choice but to attack the rocks of this central half-man of irrationalism, which is the foundation of the policies of the last five years, namely the assumption that non-viable loans, non-viable debts, which we had in 2010, could be made viable with new loans, subject to internal devaluation, a budgetary adjustment which has rapidly reduced the overall incomes of both entrepreneurs and employees, from which new and old loans should be repaid. Even a student, a high school student understands that this can only lead with mathematical accuracy to the failure of such a program. I do not condone politicians who have tried to implement it. I call on the logic of these programmes. No one could implement this Memorandum successfully. Nobody. Today this failed programme, which has been imposed on the Greek population and has destroyed the opportunities to hope for an exit from the crisis in previous years, has produced a mountain of due debts and red loans that drown the social economy, a mountain that we are now starting to degrade in this Chamber. Indeed, soon we will also legislate on the settlement of red loans. With the restructuring on one hand of the outstanding debts to the State provided for in this draft law and with the Red Loans Act which will follow, the conditions necessary for the re-launching are created. They do not create - and I must say this - the competent conditions for recovery and re-launching, conditions which, in order to come about, we must successfully conclude our negotiation with our partners. As the Prime Minister said today, the government is negotiating with this goal, but at the same time the government is ruling. It negotiates, in order to achieve the capable conditions for real recovery, but it also legislates here today in Parliament, where we build the necessary conditions to get through to the right ones. This must be done by a responsible government, and that is what we are doing. So we turn the creative ambiguity, which was necessary to reach the agreement - bridge with our partners, with the institutions, with creative clarity, a creative clarity that begins to appear through the bills, which, against various small and medium-sized technocrats - not Greek origin - go through Parliament, against the determination with which they are trying to degrade and slow down the reform work of this government. Why is that so? For a simple reason: that they think they can promote and enhance their carerism in various fora and in various institutions outside Greece. I do not want to say with this that our partners and institutions do not have any reasonable objections and reasonable opposition to today's bill. I would like to refer to specific objections, questions and disagreements of the institutions, disagreements and objections that we have had in dialogue and which we have taken into account, because, as I said, they were also reasonable. These reasonable objections relate to what in the language of institutions, economics, management is characterised as a moral risk on the one hand and an unfavourable option on the other, the idea, in other words, that you can collect some money through these instalments, but at the same time you can harm future revenues if those who have the ability to pay, think that in the future they can escape without paying. The incentives made by the law and explained by Mrs Valavani have been sufficiently well designed in order not to create these counter-incentives in the payment culture that we want to preserve as an eye daughter and not even to preserve it, but to build and improve it. Of course, reform is not something done with a bill. They'll need it next. There will have to be a way of reforming the system of resolving disputes between the public and the citizens of the taxpayers, because without this there will be no real solution to this issue, if you want, not only between the public and the taxpayers, but between the citizens and the banks in terms of red loans. In other words, the reform work of this government will be continuous. Today we are making a very important start on outstanding debts. I referred to the legitimate objections of the institutions. I shall now refer to the unreasonable ones. As I said, there are some practiced magicians in some institutions, at a low level, who would very much like us to return to the situation of the past troika, where we, the Greek MPs and ministers, are just faithfully following their orders. The reason why there was, ladies and gentlemen, a delay on 20 February, is not because our government has slipped, it is not because our reforms have failed to satisfy the other side. I'll be clear. The reason why they were delayed is because some - I think everyone knows who they are - wanted the next day of February to overthrow its logic, to return us to the fifth review on 25 January. You know how Europe works. There are different levels of operation. What we have achieved with the summit yesterday and which we have achieved every hour, every time it passes, with blood and a huge effort and a very good organisation, is one thing: to achieve the right of this government, of this Parliament to be the owners of this reform programme. Today the Ministry made an announcement to me. The opposition considered it necessary to make a linguistic analysis. That's her right. Let's get them out of here. If you want to make criticisms and self-critical linguistics and semantics, let's do it too. On the substance, what did we say? We said we're still waiting on the technical staircases to tell us what evidence they want. You know they've been here for many days. Isn't it interesting that we're still waiting to tell us what evidence they want? Why do you think there's a delay? Gentlemen of PASOK, before you forsake us, listen. I have already listened to Mr Scandalidis with pleasure to say that he wants to participate in both the PASOK and other democratic forces of Parliament in the negotiating effort, which has a goal, to be able to implement this agreement, which we have been able to achieve with blood, which does not do anything terrible, but something very important: he highlights the Greek Parliament's right to have an opinion on the reform programme to be implemented in Greece, which he has not had in the last five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u544	Why don't you bring it to see it? You can't bring it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u545	Rejoice 4%, enjoy it. You'll have it for a while. Enjoy it. I even heard some people say that the reform list that we have proposed and our right, as the Prime Minister said yesterday after the summit, is to be the ones who wrote it - and if you want to write it together by all the wings of this House, this programme of reforms that Greece is in great need at the moment - means that they gave us the right to write our own memorandum. This reminds me, ladies and gentlemen, of Goethe, who has Mefisthele to think, with very good expressions, that everyone is like him. Sorry, ladies and gentlemen: If the Memorandum in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, it was written here in Greece, with the aim of reforming Greece, the country would be at a different fate today. We have demanded and achieved and will continue to demand that this Parliament decide on the reform programme. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm closing up with a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u546	My Minister, to decide on the extension...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u547	I'm closing up with a statement, dear Mr. Voridis, and then you'll tell me what you want. Colleagues have referred to the issue of communication and the issue of the statements made by some of us - and I personally - and the way in which they have been transferred to the international press. I would ask you to find a statement which deviates from the national interest. The statement and the way in which it was carried out, other than the way in which the cacentre was mocked, and another way in which our so-called words were twisted. The scam and the misery of those who do not want to see a Greek government who has an opinion on how this country should be ruled will give us strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u548	Ladies and gentlemen, I have two announcements to make. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House on 19-03-2015, in accordance with Articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 1 and 4 of Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, a criminal case brought by the indictment of the Anastasios Konstantinos of Spyridon (President of the TEI of Central Greece), concerning the former Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Andreas Loverdos, on the allegedly committed offences of the slander and exulphurism (Articles 363 and 361 of the Criminal Code) in the performance of his duties and through statements in plenary and the Committee on Morphics Affairs of the Greek Parliament in September 2014. The second thing I have to say to you is that, at the request of the parliamentary groups, the parliamentary control on Monday and Tuesday is not cancelled - I reply to Mr Kegeroglu - but he is being transferred for Thursday and Friday, and I therefore think that this House is also acceptable, as is the committee being transferred.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u549	We're starting secondarys. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please calm down, especially the district MPs, who see you alive. It's all about you. We start the seconds again by Mr. Red of the Independent Greeks. You have the floor, Mr. Red, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while the backbone of our national economy, the free professionals, drowned the swan song, this government of national and general salvation is coming to give a real breath to thousands of professionals and traders who needed it. There can be no four hundred thousand Greeks suddenly owed taxes and insurance funds. It was the policies that led them to this situation. The bill under vote contains provisions that really help thousands of professional traders to stand on their feet. In fact, that is the concept of relaunching the economy. I said before that, above all, that it is man and not the numbers. We, the Independent Greeks, are very interested in man, whether he is a trader or a free trader. We're interested in not closing his shop. For those in debt in public and in insurance funds, then, we are voting on a bill that contains major provisions in an hour's time. An innovative regulation, which we deserve to mention, is the indirect abolition of the self-defense procedure for public debt. We are talking about the self-constitutional process, although it had previously been judged to be unconstitutional, but it is being implemented. By Article 3 of the EEC Treaty. The self-declaration procedure has been introduced today by the bill we are voting on. It was a process of humiliation. Unfortunately, it was wrongly strengthened by anti-prosecutors of the Ice Bay with circulars, and all it did was degrade our fellow citizens, without the result being achieved. Moreover, the present draft law introduces major arrangements by bringing the title ‘Projects from the scope of regulation’. It is the first bill which provides for benefits under a specific provision. What are these benefits? It is tax and insurance information, the suspension of prosecutions, the lifting of seizures on third parties with regard to debtors in IKA and many others. The most important regulation is the option of an insurance category lower for the selfemployed. In view of all this, Mr President, we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u551	Thank you, Mr. Red, for the cooperation. Mr. Paphis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u552	I want to make some clarifications on Article 24. Madam Minister, as soon as your cooperation with Mr. Varoufakis is finished...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u553	Mrs. Valabani is harassing him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u554	Now I don't want to say who's harassing who. We do not enter into internal other parties. First of all, we do not agree with the current situation and regulation for the company "the coastal front S.A." we voted against. We were radically opposed. In other words, it is quite contrary to our vote against what the New Democracy says. I say so, so we can be clear. We all disagree about how you're now bringing this law all the story about the TIAD. I don't want to speak in detail as Nikos Karathanasopoulos spoke. Because Mr Stathakis also replied with arguments and said'mainly' and 'not exclusively', we must be honest. What does it mean, what does it mean, 'not exclusively'? What we have said before is that it will again be given to business groups. We're not making any hint to talk about morality, Minister. Politically, if you can hear me. Mr. Varoufakis, please, if possible, follow me. I know you have potential and talk and listen, etc. But there are limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u555	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u556	Because Mrs Valvaani spoke about morality, that is why I say that we are politically speaking. We are not hinting because, when you raise a moral issue, it does not mean that a business group 'takes them'. It's politics. There is a policy that says that growth will take place through business groups alone. There's another policy that says other things. We are making political criticism. That is why we must not make use of such arguments, at least as far as we are concerned, because we are not used to making such suggestions or personal attacks or saying things about which we do not have any evidence. Secondly, I want to tell you about Article 31. We'd vote for it, but let us know why you're exempting listed people from the Stock Exchange? We have not heard any reason. If listed on the Stock Exchange, we'll vote on it. You didn't give us any explanations. Finally, I would like to say this. We have tabled an integrated amendment. We have repeatedly provoked, for reasons not of parliamentary order, but of elegance, to tell us why you are not accepting it. Give me an answer. Why do you reject it? It's complete. It makes sense. It is not general - not to hear it - nor to be socialist. It is an amendment which Nikos Karathanasopoulos very well analysed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if I hadn't had the vacation, I would have finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u557	I'll leave you for one more minute. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u558	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending. This amendment is specific, it is nothing abstract, general. I say it's not socialist, but it's relief. That's a relief. What you're doing is not a relief. All we heard is that in a subsequent bill you might bring the issue of seismicism, of the JRC. If I'm not mistaken, that's what you said in your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u559	Mr. Palphie, I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u560	I don't call it ironic. You know we're serious. That's what you said, because we say you're not relieved. What are you doing? You take them to the penitentiary, and on many conditions and conditions, in fact, to pay. Our amendment makes sense. He says to get rid of the populace. Our amendment does not make any sense. We would expect at least one answer. It is unfair for any party, because, when you table a structured, integrated, documented amendment, the government must respond, unless you follow the practice commonly followed by governments, that is to say not to reply. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u561	Mrs. Liberaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u562	I do not want to mourn this House at the end of a great day and I did not want to go against the government, and much more I did not want to go against Mr Stathakis. I shall refer to the way in which the business, non-existent and virtual issue has been discussed in his last speech, as if it were basically that, and there may be some more, but in three months' time they will get their money back. I would just like to say, in order to understand the scale, that in the clothing industry where two and a half thousand Greek businesses operate 80% of their production and, above all, the stage of cutting and sewing is taking place in two countries, Bulgaria and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. These are the two countries that account for 80% of the Greek companies' production. We are talking about Greek businesses, which employ twenty thousand workers and workers and, indirectly, their function is for another thirty thousand workers and workers in the retail sector, who sell these items. We are also talking about a total of six hundred million exports during the last bad year, in 2014. These companies are therefore invited to pay up to 80% of their production, which they will take back in three months. I do not know whether we are aware of the scale of the financing of the State which is involved in this arrangement. Because everyone here is interested in restarting the economy, I would very much like an answer because companies have to finance the state for three months, especially at a time of close liquidity, when they cannot be financed by the banks and are being delayed. Indirectly, they finance the state with delayed VAT returns. Can I have an answer, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u563	Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u564	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall start with a brief comment to Mr Stathakis, so that we can resolve the loose ends. I, Mr Stathakis, have listened very carefully to your analysis of the "Sunday Front S.A." and the many diverse and peculiar interests inside, outside and on what you said. Question to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group: do you not want to have a normal procedure in this House, to have the Minister come, to call on the 'Save Front' coefficients, and to have these outsides informed, both inside and in these interests? If there are really so many dreadful interests and suspicions of scandals that you have said, because you know how much I appreciate you on a personal level too - Mr Army, please, I want to see the Minister and you are interfering - I consider what you have said to be true. If that is the case, Minister, one more reason for withdrawing the article, because otherwise, listen to what you will be accused of from today: that you who have suggested that you are aware of these interests are choosing an urgent and transparent procedure to cover them. So I say to you: after we have done so at the level of interest, you can withdraw it and come to the committee and tell us in detail and we can applaud you there. Otherwise, you go cover for interests. And that's too heavy. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Secondly, Mr Stathakis, you know that I consider you a good person, almost right, you have not answered the major one. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Listen, the New Democracy's criticism was specific, in advance of the tax. In advance! Let's figure it out, since you said it, practically. All companies making triangular transactions - all - should pre-pay 26% of their turnover and then prove that they do not belong to the first, second, second, second, second, and, if they prove that, that amount. So a business that makes a turnover of 1 million euros, which is an average turnover for these businesses, will have to pay an advance of 260,000 euros - where will it find it? - to go prove that he's not an elephant and after he has proved it, wait for three months to get the money from the Greek state. Mr. Minister of Development, it is much more honorable to say: "We have no money to pay salaries and pensions and we want to take the money now, to pay the salaries and pensions of the next month", it is more honorable to come here and do us lessons of supposedly practicality and non-activity. The unemployed will be charged with Stathakis and not Balabani. Valvanie's doing her job. Stathakis is Minister of Development. I now go to Mr. Varoufakis, who is the first time I have the honour of meeting him. First of all, Minister, one day after your grand gave with the FEK and the Convention, you will have to teach the Members of the New Democracy a great deal. You should start with an apology and, if for some reason you don't know how to find the Voridis, I would be happy to send you Mr. Voridis who is more kind to me to show you on the computer how it is done. It's too easy. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] I would also like to say to you - because I have investigated it today and it is not funny at all - that if you had asked your services - I asked you yourself today - you would find that there are original contracts with a protocol number. Do you want Monday to go to my office with me to bring them to you? So listen. You came to the House yesterday, you were unrealisticly exposed, because you proved you didn't know, you loaded something on the previous Minister, and here you didn't say an apology, even a collegiate one. And then you're teaching us lessons! Lessons where? The primary surplus that was smaller? I read to you and I will be tabling Mr Katinen's earlier statement: 'To this winter, things went better, the country had a primary surplus of 1.5% of GDP. Now, unfortunately, things have changed." And what does the 'now' consist of? I give you the reply of your colleague, Mr Marda, a few days ago, to a question from Mr Stakoura. What does Mr Mardas say, ladies and gentlemen, in his answer? In this regard, the Commission notes that in order to conclude the process of determining the primary result of the financial year 2014, it is necessary to issue the provisional results of the two-month January-February 2015, which will have been completed at the end of March 2015. I would like to make Mr Catinen's statement on the Minutes, as well as Mr Marda's written reply to Mr Staikora's question. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] When you're told - to understand - "it wasn't 1.5% of GDP, the primary surplus, but 0.3%," they're telling the truth. Why? 'Cause the two months came in and your guys went down, 'cause you screwed up. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] I close, Minister, on the major subject, and I want you to give us a real answer. In addition to the fine statement that you welcome the technical steps of the Troika - BGs, Brussels Group - you tell them you, our troika, because we are conservative and we have old names - you say there is no fifth evaluation. I read you the statements by Chancellor Merkel three hours ago: Chancellor even presented the agreement of 20 February - the one you successfully implement - as a follow-up to the framework set out in the progress paper of 10 December, namely the latest update made for the fifth evaluation of the Greek programme. So, to understand, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Merkel said there was going to be an assessment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u565	Where did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u566	You admitted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u567	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u568	Let me finish. Don't get upset!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u569	Mr. Georgiadis, will you please finish? Don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u570	Mr. Varoufakis, two things happen in life. Or Mrs. Merkel is lying, or you're lying. I want you to boldly tell us: Chancellor Merkel is lying. I accept that from the Minister of the Greek Government. However, both cannot be applied at the same time. In other words, Mrs Merkel can't even say that the fifth evaluation has been abolished. I am closing with the major example of this, and here you give us a concrete answer, so that we can understand it. In the agreement of 20 February - which you have not brought it to this House, badly for you not only politically, but also badly for other reasons, because you have only taken the possible criminal responsibility, you have been trapped - there is this particular point: it is forbidden to go out of previous laws and it is certainly forbidden to make reforms - they have today - which have budgetary costs. Mr. Army two hours ago announced that, in five or six days' time - he was mixing the law, Mr. Army, I imagine you have him ready, give him the man to see - he will bring the law to abolish the zero deficit clause and solidarity of generations. This law, if it comes, is, firstly, a change in previous law and secondly, it is a billion budgetary costs. A billion! Minister, please, we need to get an answer. We want to know, in order to understand the spirit of the agreement of 20 February and how willing you are to observe it: do you, as Finance Minister, also confirm that this law will be voted on in Parliament next week? And, if so, how will it be financed? Have you discussed this with the "institutions", as you say, or with the "troika", as is the real name?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u571	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u572	Mr. Petrako, do you want to use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u573	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u574	Here, Mr. Petrako, you have the floor. Mr Georgiadis, the financial cost, according to the medium term, for the abolition of the clause is 476 million, according to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u575	No, no. Let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u576	The financial cost...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u577	Mr President, you have given me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u578	I have the numbers on my hands. Let my colleagues know. There are 510 million subsidiary, 433 million single and 226 million from the Treasury of Public Officials. The total is one billion. That the Minister will know so he won't be wrong again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u579	We'll see about the evidence. Mr. Voutsis can verify them. Mr. Petrako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u580	Although we fully understand - and the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative confirms this - his deepest love with the memorial policies and the troika, unfortunately we will not do him a favour of the troika continuing to be here. He's gonna take it away. He's already been deprived of her since January 25th. We realize that deep love creates some problems, but what should we do? The Greek people came out on the 25th of January and this government is committed - as the Prime Minister pointed out - to close today's interview to move in a different direction than that which Greece has been going on in the last five years. Well, that's it. It is difficult for them to realize - as is difficult for them to talk to and when they were given orders to do them immediately - that there is now a government that negotiated and puts Greece in a different orbit from that in which it was four and a half years. That's their deepest problem. But, I repeat, it will be slowly understood by everyone. But today, in a few minutes' time, the Greek Parliament has decided on the second most important bill of law for which the Prime Minister had committed himself in the Greek Parliament in the programming declarations, for the relief of natural persons and small and medium-sized enterprises, for their debts to the public, to the OTAs, to the insurance funds. We are being called upon by saying: 'Where are all the bills?' Who are they prosecuting? It must have a courage to say 'Where are all the bills on the relaunching of the economy?' We are being prosecuted by those who have broken up, broken down and sold the Post Office and the Agricultural Bank not just for a lentil but for the interests of the Greek public. For the Agricultural Bank to remind them that the then Commissioner of the European Union, Olli Rehn, has responded and has said that if he had taken the entire Greek State into consideration, it would cost 4.5 billion. They gave it to Piraeus Bank and it cost 9.1 billion. Those who have borne the Greek State, those who have not left any public bank who have called Mr Stathakis because he has not brought the bill for the special development bank and for the loans that will make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises, when he has replied to them days ago that this will bring them all. We are being insulted by the fact that the independent authorities do not govern and is being held responsible by the government with Articles 16 and 17. We answer them: The Greek people have given this government responsibility. They will not govern controversial independent authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u581	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u582	Thirdly, Mr Georgiadis tells us about Article 24 to bring it later, if we admit that the 'State Front' did have problems. That logic is above rivers. After he himself admits that we may be right that he had serious problems, as the Minister said, then he really has to agree with us, that he must now be absorbed by the EBRD which is a public company.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u583	The Coastal Front, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u584	Finally, it is too much to call people and leave implied. They are the ones that covered 'SIEMENS'. Mr Stournaras lied in this House. Others had signed the agreement on "SIEMENS" and others committed themselves to the Greek Parliament. Now ‘SIEMENS’ does not carry out its ‘Pitsos’ project for which it was committed for an investment of 60 million. In five years they checked for the Lagard list and few of those who had taken their money abroad from the transfer. Those responsible for the old submarines, those who gave billions and put the country in a deep crisis say that there are problems of moral order and leave implied for members and executives of SYRIZA, because we do not bring the amendment that they voted for, as Mr Milos said. That's too much! In fact, Mr Constantinople spoke and hinted on the former President of the Coalition, who has fought against strife and corruption. 'They are not entitled to speak', to remind them of a phrase by an old executive on such matters. This government goes ahead with today's bill, which, as I said in my prototype, accepts almost 80% of the Greek people. With this bill, the government will relieve the world and continue its course to implement its programme. All that they knew in Greece ended with the Greek people's vote on the 25th of January.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u585	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u586	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u587	Thank you, Mr President. I will tell Mr Petrakos and all the colleagues who are here today what I said before and I have repeated it and I may have tired of some of my colleagues: Mr. Army told us that we thanked Mr. Vardinoyannis and Mr. Latsis EUR 1.2 billion, by means of a provision that we brought as a previous government. Today I ask my colleagues and the government, because one of the two will be true: or they were wrong - because we believed it was the right thing - as a new government and apologise for what they said that we were happy or, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you will bring an amendment in order to return what we have given to the Greek public. You are ruling today and you will have to answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u588	Does one of the special speakers or speakers want to use a short-lived dentistry? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, gentlemen! Does one of the Ministers want to intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u589	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u590	Please, Mrs Valavani, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u591	I am sorry that we have been so late, but we have missed a piece of legislation, because we have not changed the title of Article 24. The title should be given not ‘State Front S.A.’ but ‘State Front S.A.’ by ETAD S.A.’. In addition, where we say "rejects as a whole of assets and liabilities and is transferred by ETAD S.A." to add "and transfers all staff from the next post of this publication", as Mr Stathakis said yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u592	All right, Minister, give this constructive improvement to the Director, please, to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u593	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Athanasios for pointing out the title. I would also like to say to my colleagues in the JRC that I have read the amendment and I have put it. The truth is that I did not say anything, because some of these views had others in the JRC, but I was placed in relation to the two main differences that we found the proposal we are bringing today to regulate with the proposal submitted by the JRC. One, as I said exactly, is that we do not want to send millions of people to committees, because, in order to be as you describe it, this must be done and we do not want to start a nightmare without end. We first want electronics, alone, and with this seismicism that is being done, the haircut - if you like - from 100% to 30% in a hundred instalments, those who can pay 20 euros in debts to the public, plus 50 euros a month in debts to the insurance funds, plus what they have done with the banks - but for the banks, we will have our own regulation in the immediate future - to do so directly. In a second phase, because it is obvious that there will be people who cannot give these 100, 120 euros a month - I do not know how much they will be with the banks - they will have to pass through committees, which will demonstrate that they can't do so and that's where they will be dissatisfied. We have brought proposals to the past, which apply, that if you are unemployed, they are completely frozen for two years and, if you are unemployed again, they are cut or cut from the beginning, when it is clear that this is a burden. But we want those who can set themselves up. Because it doesn't make any sense to do it, if they can anyway. We hope that they will be at least hundreds of thousands of people who will be able within a period of two months to do so. After this phase is over, we will have the phase of committees for those who have been audited who cannot do so. And there, of course, there will be seismic. I'll say it again. He's no owner of seismicism, neither do you nor we. Others have suggested it. The point is that at some point it is clear that this must be done. The second basic difference concerns them upwards. I have been here very clearly and in relation to all the colleagues from New Democracy and Potami who say 'yes, let's give them the chance', but let them know that, if they do, the IRS will check on them. I said these things couldn't be done. If we don't want them to come in, let's say in advance it's time for the IRS to check on them. I said it must be done exactly the opposite. Let's warn that those from above can - because there are some who can't and do not - IRS will go to them to check. How many are on top? They are six and a half natural persons and companies - some of the companies are bankrupt and do not exist - which they owe. Of the total EUR 77 billion in the last record - that is, on 1 March - of the outstanding debt have been met by regulating the 228 million. I'll say it again. Of the 60 billion have responded by regulating the 228! So for them it's really one last chance. Who have so far been opposed to this? I suppose - and you through the draft law - New Democracy MPs, Potami MPs and the International Monetary Fund. Finally, I have not talked about morality, and I know very well that the JRC does not do personal attacks and that it has political criticism, a military attack, say what you want. I referred to two positions by Mr Karathanasopoulos when he spoke as a special speaker. He said Mr. Karathanasopoulos, firstly, that there was a feast with the TIAD before and it would continue with the TIADE or the new fund today with the SYRIZA Government. Secondly, that the channelling of funds into the social security system, which is not contributions, serves the major business interests, which are exempt from the payment of the contributions. I said that it is very heavy when there are one and a half million unemployed who are out of the system, who do not necessarily pay contributions, because they do not work, and two hundred and sixty thousand businesses, which have been closed, and they do not pay to IKA for the workers who had neither the OSCE nor the OSCE, to think that it is the service of great business interests, that we need to cut our necks and find resources to channel to the system, because otherwise the system will collapse. We are in favour of public participation and do not accept that the State is exempted from its participation in the social security system, but we need to see how this will be done, so that it is realistic. I didn't talk about morality, I said we were losing the measure with such positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u594	Ms. Valvanie, please hand over the changes to the service.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u595	Other than the Ministers would like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u596	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u597	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u598	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I shall be voting for the amendment. The proposal we have tabled does not require a committee. The haircut is done automatically. If your thinking of seismicism - which I will stress again - is done, then it allows committees, referring to a long-term action. So they're kept under charging conditions, they're kept under IRS control. So from this point of view, there is a huge difference. That's the first. Secondly, we criticised you because you put in large businesses, not in the sense of the New Democracy and the River. Our objection is quite different. We say they have to pay, and we need to revise everything in total. Fines and surcharges must be paid and the framework must be changed to allow anonymous companies to go bankrupt and at the same time those who are the real owners of public limited companies to come out intact with their property, without any impact. So you should not identify us. The third issue is in relation to the ICT and all that you mentioned. We are very clear and clear. We therefore accuse you of politically extending the scope of this process, in which business interests can invest in the name of the use of public property, not only of private real estate of the public, but also of the entire public property. We also say that this report, which means that a resource will be created to fund social security, is the 'tree on the face', because through this process it is legalized in popular conscience to accept the faggot that the business groups will do - either through the concession or through the public-private partnership - to make use of the entire public property in the name of capitalist profit. Moreover, it is within the general philosophy that social security is a cost, the 'non-wage cost', as you call it, for capital. So it has to be slowly, slowly dematerialized. In this respect, therefore, it is within the logic that the business groups are already further reducing their participation in the insurance funds and reducing it to the end until it is completely eliminated. So this is the counter-insurance plan that is part of the public resource that you want to implement. So don't say now that there are unemployed. The unemployed creates them the capitalist system, which you do not want to change. On the contrary, the operation of capitalist businesses and capitalist property is the prerequisite for unemployment in our country. In the name of the relaunching of the economy, as you have stressed, the conditions will be established to strengthen even more the action, creating much more favourable conditions for large capital and for wage labour to ensure competitiveness and profitability. It is in this context that our criticism and not anyone else is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u599	The Minister of Finance, Mr. Yanis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u600	Mr. Georgiadis, you're asking me to inaugurate our excellent new friendship that starts today, forcing me to lie. I won't do that because I think our friendship is very important from now on. You are asking me to say that yesterday I was wrong when I answered a question from a Member who asked me a simple question. He asked me: "Is there a letter from your Ministry's protocol in which the earlier one was requested?" The answer is no. I could never say: 'Come along, Mr. Vorides will come on the Internet to find it'. Further, I've been telling you honestly, when I got into my office from the first few days I asked the Services to bring me the loan agreement. I'm not a lawyer, but I have the impression that having a loan agreement, having a contract, a title of property in original, in the original, matters. The answer was that it doesn't exist and we had to wait three and a half days to get here. Now, as far as the primary surplus is concerned, the fact that you have to refer to Mr Catanine says something. The Ministry's Services and ELSTAT speak with the numbers I presented to you: 0.6%. How much did you say we had in 2014? 0.6%!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u601	January - February.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u602	If Mr. Kanenen is a friend to your party, that's your business. It's an excellent friendship you've got between you two. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let me finish, because some Members have to leave and I want to be quick. The BGs, the Brussels Group, you confuse them with the technical staircases. The technical tiles located in Greece are not the Brussels Group. The Brussels Group is in Brussels. The technical tiles are here to serve the Brussels Group with data they collect here. As regards Mrs Merkel and what she said, it is very interesting that Mrs Merkel's very proper case is that the agreement of 20 February is an extension, an extension, a continuation, you have translated it - because I think that is what you want to see - in a reference to the fifth assessment. It is like saying that since the President-in-Office is an extension of the Kingdom Republic, the President-in-Office has no difference whatsoever from the Kingdom Republic! It has a huge difference, Mr Georgiadis, and the difference is that we do not impose fundamental types of e-mail Hardouvels at the moment!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u603	For the time being!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u604	You hope that we will reduce pensions. I give you to the Greek people's judgment. With regard to the thrilling anxiety of some of my criminal responsibilities, by signing the request to extend the loan agreement, I would like to tell you two things: Firstly, my mandate from the Prime Minister and from the government in the negotiation was to separate the loan agreement from the memorandum. This is not what I am sorry about, because you do not tolerate that we may have achieved this disconnection. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You insist that we bring you back the memorandum that you have voted on so that you can vote again. We're not gonna do you a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u605	We want to see yours in the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u606	Don't scream! I'll come to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u607	Don't interrupt, please. Mr. Varoufakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u608	But I promise that what I signed I'll testify to you and put it on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u609	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u610	Here, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u611	Minister, I read you in English, which I know best from everyone in the Chamber, Mrs Merkel's statement: 'Referred to December 10'state of play' document for firm Greece bailout review'. So don't be fooled. Mrs. Merkel told you about the continuation of the fifth evaluation. I asked you another question, whether she's telling the truth or lying. Secondly, I told you that from the one billion that creates as a budget cost the law of Mr Army, 1.50,000 000 000 are reductions in supplementary pensions, 300 million of which are the one and 100 million of which are the Equity Fund. So it's a billion. You have to tell us if within the next week, as Mr Solana has promised, you have to present us with a billion-dollar budgetary equivalent so that we can hear and judge it. We'll all reward you if that's what you can do. Mr. Varoufakis, here's what the reality is, so that we can have our good friendship, which is starting now. I asked your services today and, if you'd like, I'll come on Monday to get the clerk inside your office. It has a protocol number, it's officially delivered to you, it's in your closet, but you don't know how to open it! I don't know why. It's a shame. I found it without coming. You didn't find it while you were inside. Finally, Mr Varoufakis, listen to what the problem is. What does the Greek people hear? He hears our Government - you and Mr Tsipras - say that you have achieved this separation of a loan contract and a memorandum - indeed - but at the same time he hears all European leaders say that it is one thing about the programme, the loan contract, the memorandum and the troika. We hear the German parliament talking about troika, the Finnish parliament about troika, the Dutch parliament about troika and everywhere talking about a memorandum. Worst you know what it is? When they ask Diaselblum and Juncker in one of the press conferences about whether you could achieve this separation that you say, if you saw Mr. Diaselblum, he's about laughing and saying: “Okay, now our Greek friends want us to say it “program”. Do you like being fooled, Mr. Varoufakis? Everyone calls it 'troika' and everyone calls it'memorandum'. Admit it to finish! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u612	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u613	Mr. Army, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u614	I would like to clarify this once and for all: no matter how much Mr Adonis Georgiadis and others - not all of them, it is true - from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to move on to the pension cuts planned for 2015, we will not respond to their beggars! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And because my drawers have been looking for them since the first day I went - because they brought me to sign a ministerial decision, to make the first instalment of reductions in supplementary pensions from 1 March 2015, and Mr Georgiadis knows well and everyone that I did not sign it - I found that the previous government for 2015 had planned a 155% reduction in supplementary pensions and a 30% reduction in one-off benefits by 30% to 80% and 100 million euros from the limitation of the beneficiaries of the EAS, which are taken by the lowest pensioners, the most unhappy of our fellow citizens and 2 million euro impairment of main pensions, in application of Laws 3863/2010 and 3865/2010. They were preparing in 2015, if it was a government, to remove 500 million euros from the Greek people. We will not remove them from the pensioners! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we will replenish them from the EUR 400 million that will be the extra to be collected from the debt arrangement in the insurance funds, from the EUR 1,46 billion expected in 2015. 400 million is additional revenue than the previous government had received in 2014 from the increase in the minimum wage, which, as the Minister of Labour has announced, is gradually coming, which means an increase in the income of the insurance system and the growth wheels that we will have in our country, in order to cope with unemployment, to work for the unemployed and to pay contributions from them and their employers. Also, Mrs Valavani and Mr Stathakis, during the two-day period they said that the use of public property would go for the establishment of a Fund for National Riches and Social Security, which will mainly finance social policies and social security. So reductions, please, we won't. Secondly - and I shall end, Mr President - the controversy with the New Democracy on the fine amendment to the few-farmers is clear. Clear! The New Democracy has its opinion and believes that it is right. Mr Georgiadis came, he colluded with me politically yesterday with arguments and said that he should not be ashamed, because it is right. I answered him with political arguments too. It was a strong confrontation. It was a policy with arguments. I do not understand, Mr President, why two-three PASOK Members - not everyone - are'surpassing their backs on the socket'. I'm not a douchebag, of course, but why are they scratching their backs? I would like to say to the younger colleagues and to the Greek people who are listening to us that this amendment was voted after the fifth attempt. It took four months for New Democracy, which had its opinion - we are opposed and conflicted on it - to convince Mr Koukulopoulos and the PASOK to vote on it. In the fifth attempt thirteen PASOK Members voted for the graceful amendment and 12 voted. Mr President, please, give them five minutes' break, get out and get in touch with each other. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If it is graceful that the twelve people say, and they have not voted, that others also agree that they have voted badly, that they should come and apologize to us and the Greek people and contribute to how to restore it. If it was right that the thirteen of the twenty-five voted to come here and collide with us, the way the New Democracy collided. Finally, this story is over. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u615	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u616	Dialogue is constructive. Weapons parity must exist. Mr Brutsi has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u617	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u618	Is there anything personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u619	It's not personal. He has a dentistry as a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u620	Please, gentlemen! We'll be done in three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u621	Ladies and gentlemen, I am a speaker. I had a dentistry. I didn't value her. However, I believe that, as the climate is shaped, it is good and useful for everyone to hear more. Mr President, I have said that too many times. There are no fewer and more sensitive ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u622	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u623	There are some who look in the eye and tell the truth about what we have in front of us and others who hide. Mr Minister, let me tell you about the fairy tale you have been saying for a long time. Nobody's talking about pension reduction. We are talking about the viability of the insurance company, about supplementary pensions, so that there can be one single.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u624	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u625	Quiet, please. Mr. Leuchako!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u626	And, Mr President, these two clauses - and the SYRIZA colleagues have to hear it - are two very large and important reforms which bring justice, transparency and justice. No one will ever pay for another's pension. The most important thing is that it ensures that future generations also get one-off and subsidiary, which we do not look at, because that is the role of insurance. Mr President, Minister for Finance, the Minister for Social Security does not bring about the abolition of the clause of solidarity and transparency for both the single and the subsidiary. It's not gone. There is. Both of these deficits, together with the Equity Fund - 510 million, 433 million and 226 million - go through one billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u627	He's going to draw up a report on the troika.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u628	Mr. Leuchako, sit down and don't interrupt the speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u629	If, at some point, that is not the case, then a lightning on all pensioners will suddenly come one day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u630	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u631	I'm done. But if the government is determined to abolish it, it is welcome. But the day he comes here, he must also find the equivalent of one billion. Because, fatefully, if he doesn't find it, then the hit will be much bigger and it will be for all the insurance and the main pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u632	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u633	The process is over, Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u634	That's why I want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u635	I give the floor for a minute to Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u636	Then how does it end?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u637	I want the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u638	You're very welcome. Mr Kegeroglou has the floor, and then Mr Katsotis and Mr Petrakos. Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u639	Very soon, Mr President. I would not have taken the floor if Mr Army did not make a reference to alleged reductions in the main pensions. It is well known, at all the lengths and backs of this country, that the requirement of partners and lenders and any thought of some to accept reductions in the main pensions had been rejected by PASOK primarily and secondly by the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u640	Gentlemen, be quiet to finish the speaker. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u641	It was published, and this was made public in political positions both to the partners and through - from the well-known - Hardouvelis mail. So not these games, that we saved from supposed reductions. No talk. For the subsidiary, people now know what's going on. Second, and I'll be done...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u642	Please, let's get this over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u643	I'm being harassed by Mr. Leucascus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u644	Mr. Leuchako, please! Go ahead and get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u645	I'm done. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Today the majority in Parliament are SYRIZA and the government, the Coupling. As long as he doesn't bring the arrangement he'll get back the money, so she's exposed. Please, either you stop muddying, because we have both children and families and we will personally come...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u646	Why are colleagues protesting? What does this gentleman want and walk around in the hallways?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u647	You, your government, or you will bring the order to get the money back or not. Both can't do it. Listen, we will no longer speak politically, but personally. Either you bring the order you get the money back and you prove you believe it or you apologize. No more squirrels, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u648	Mr Katsotis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u649	Mr President, we are not fools, nor are we the Greek people, particularly the workers who have experienced the great attack on social security. Employers, industrialists, traders, major traders, hotel owners, shipowners with the social security system and other workers' rights have never been reconciled. They always wanted their discharge. The governments have so far worked to relieve the employer of the so-called non-wage cost. That is why the zero-duty clause, which is why there is no guarantee, stops the state guarantee to social security. The workers have struggled and are striving for a social security system that meets its current needs. That is why pensioners and all workers will be privatising a pan-European rally on 1 April in order to demand compensation for the losses, because the government today is not talking about covering the losses that pensioners have had all these days since the major attack. They demand damage cover and not stop mail Hardouvelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u650	Mr Petrakos has the floor and we will start the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u651	Mr President, everyone's way of reacting confirms whether or not he has arguments. For those colleagues who cry for the amendment they have voted against, I tell them, to end the story, to ask their colleagues from the same party why they did not vote and to ask them about it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Secondly, those who, in the 30 billion reserves of the insurance system, made it 3.5 billion, are very much indulging today on how to solve the problem of social security! The problem of social security will be solved, reductions will not be made and Greek people, workers and pensioners will be protected with the SYRIZA Government. With their own government, if it continued, we would have reductions in supplementary pensions and a one-off one. Finish the corn!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u652	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u653	Mr. Theochari, please continue. Many colleagues are in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u654	Mr President, I am only asking for the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u655	Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u656	I'm gonna need much less. Besides, I didn't use my dentistry. Just said something by the Minister of Finance and I wanted to make a simple comment. He said the Minister of Finance that this government will not bring any real measures. What is Article 21? Is it anti-cyclical? Is it development? This government needs to be careful, because with stillness and backward steps the world record will have no real measures and will have a recession!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u657	Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is not responsible for the fact that the centre of confrontation - indeed constructive - has caught this House in the last circle. I congratulate you on the fact that the views which have been heard have indeed been very interesting. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law of the Treasury of Finance is adjourned: 'Requirements for the relaunch of the economy'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u659	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u660	The draft law of the Ministry of Finance was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u661	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u662	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u663	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u664	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 3?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u665	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u666	Article 3 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u668	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u669	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u670	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u671	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u672	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u673	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u675	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u676	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u678	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u679	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u680	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u681	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u682	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u684	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u685	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u686	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u687	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u688	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u689	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u690	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u691	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u692	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u693	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. An application for a roll-call vote has been submitted for Rule 16 by Members of the New Democracy. An application for a roll-call vote has been submitted for Rule 17 by Members of the New Democracy. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u694	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u695	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u696	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u697	Article 19 has therefore been accepted as it has unanimously been. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u698	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u699	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. An application for a roll-call vote has been filed for Rule 21 by Members of the New Democracy. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u700	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u702	The report on the obligation of farmers to make quarterly declarations rather than annually we vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u703	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u704	Article 23 was therefore unanimously accepted. An application for a roll-call vote has been filed for Rule 24 by Members of the New Democracy. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u705	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u706	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u707	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u708	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u710	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u711	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u712	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u713	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u714	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u715	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u717	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u718	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u719	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u720	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u722	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u723	Article 32 was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u725	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u726	Article 34 has therefore been accepted as it has been unanimously. Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed in the morning, we are now holding the roll-call vote on Articles 16, 17, 21,24 of the bill. I would also like to inform you that a request was made for a roll-call vote on the principle by Members of the Golden Dawn, which was considered by the Bureau as non-vote, because the necessary number of signatures had not been completed, in accordance with Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u727	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 16, 17, 21, 24 of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Agreements to relaunch the economy'. In accordance with Article 72(6), the acceptances of Articles 16, 17, 21, 24 of the draft law are ‘NEI’. The non-accepting Articles 16, 17, 21, 24 of the bill read ‘OH’. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Panagiota Dritsel is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr Christos Boukokos from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that faxes - (fax) colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, have come to the Bureau, which makes their vote known on the articles of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u728	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by Members pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u729	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my fellow Members, and Mr von der Vring, have taken part in this debate. Eleftherios Aeggeakis, Konstantinos Hatzidakis, George Vlachos, Theodoros Karaoglou, Timoleon Kossalis, Konstantinos Gioulekas, Konstantinos Javaras, Eleni Raptis, Fotinis Arabatzis and Christos Kelles will not be present in today's roll-call vote and they know that, if they were present and present, they would vote "OK" in Articles 16, 17, 21 and 24. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Athanasios Vardalis, Ioannis Giokas, Giorgos Marinos, Nikolaos Moraitis, Emmanuel Syntrakis and Liana Kanellellis will not be present in today's roll-call vote and they know by letter that, if they were present and present, they would vote "PARGON" in Articles 16, 17 and 21 and "NOV" in Article 24. These letters, which express the intention of voting, shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but shall not be counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u730	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u731	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 241 Members voted. In favour of Rule 16, i.e. 'NAH', 160 Members voted. Against Rule 16, i.e. 'HO', 64 Members voted. They voted for 17 MPs. Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. In favour of Rule 17, namely 'NAH', they voted 160 Members. Against Rule 17, i.e. 'HO', 64 Members voted. They voted for 17 MPs. Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. In favour of Rule 21, i.e. 'NAH', 160 Members voted. Against Rule 21, i.e. 'Notice', 64 Members voted. They voted for 17 MPs. Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. In favour of Rule 24, i.e. 'NAH', 148 Members voted. Against Rule 24, i.e. 'NO', 93 Members voted. Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority of the following roll-call vote:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u732	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u733	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u734	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Agreements on the reopening of the economy’ was accepted in principle and by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u735	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u737	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u738	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Agreements on the relaunching of the economy’ was accepted, by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and on the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u739	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u740	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-20-S1-commons.u741	With the consent of the House, the sitting on Thursday, March 26, 2015, at 9.30', on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
