ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas, MP, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u2	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal Congressman Theodoros Parastatis filed a report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the control of legality in a crisis procedure for the degree of Assistant Professor in Aristotle. SYRIZA Member of the Kilkis Prefecture, Mr.Theodoros Parastatis presents the petition on the occasion of the letter to his office, Mr. Fotis Dimitriadis, a Urinologist, Lecturer Urinological Clinic of the University of Tottori of Japan, which participated in the 2014 judgments of the Epicuros Professor at the Aristotle University, and asks for legality checks within six months, as provided by the law, by the services of the Ministry, at the request of the Minister concerned. The need to deal with this issue should be noted in order to identify any irregularities that may have occurred during the crisis process and to remove injustice. The MPs, Mr. Sakis Vardalis and Mr. Helen Gerasimou, referred to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, in a letter from the Workers' Association of the State Theatre of Northern Greece, requesting that they be paid directly to the employed and retarded remuneration and that sufficient State funding be provided on the basis of the needs for the uninterrupted functioning of the organization. MEP Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou filed a petition to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the vote on a multi-legislative draft for education. MEP George Amyras has submitted a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: ‘Definition of a new Board of Directors of the company CSR S.A.’. The Press Release of the Professional Association of Breeding Sciences, according to which the non-compliance with the intended process of setting up the Board of Directors as regards the appointment of a representative of the employees raises questions as to the feasibility and validity of the decisions and steps and answers are expected. MEP Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou submitted a report to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the grant of the Municipality of Vianno due to the naturalities of January and February 2015. Congressman Stavroula Xulidou filed a report to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the anachronistic system and how to conduct pre-examinations of architects and TEMA officers. The report relates to the letter of Thessaloniki Police Officers Trade Union about the system and how the promotional examinations of architects and TEMA officers are conducted. MEP George Diaras filed a report to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on "Actions of the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection for the Protection of Pedestrians and Pilots". It relates to the actions of the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection on the protection of pedestrians and cyclists, which highlights the problems faced by pedestrians and asks the Minister for the measures he will take to improve the situation. MEP Evangelia Vayonakis filed a petition to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘Proposal for exemption of fines in credit or zero declarations of income for beneficiaries of benefits’. The report relates to a letter from the Association of Authorized Accountants - Taxation - Free Professionals of Chania, on the subject “Proposal to exempt fines in credit or zero declarations of income to beneficiaries of preferential benefits”. The distortions caused in handling cases relating to the successful acquisition of benefits by beneficiaries due to past uncertainties resulting from their financial weakness are noted. MEP Andreas Michaelidis has submitted a report to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the activation of procedures for the preparation of annual rolling-stock Table for the Unemployed, in the context of recruitment of staff for self-help projects, requiring the activation of the final annual rolling lists of the unemployed. Congressman Ioannis Vroutsis has submitted a report to the Minister for Health on the review of the work programme at the EKAV Mykonos. A attached document under number 3513/5-5-2015 of the Municipality of Mykonos is provided as a reference. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Christos Katsotis, Sakis Vardalis and George Lambroulis have submitted a report to the Minister of Health on the letter of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Transplanted Hearts - Spirit, which calls for the satisfaction of their request to be assimilated to transplanted kidneys as well as kidney patients in the final stage of renal failure and for the provision of such facilities. Parliamentarians Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou have submitted a report to the Minister of Health on the proposals of the EKAV Labour Association Kosanis of Western Macedonia to meet the ever-growing needs of pre-innovation care in the region of Western Macedonia. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Giorgos Marinos, Yiannis Giokas and Christos Katsotis have submitted a report to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the announcement of the Trade Union Food and Drinks in Euboea - Boeotia, requesting the withdrawal of the redemption of a trade unionist from Evia. Parliamentarians Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou have submitted a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the letter of pears producers of the variety crystals in the Giannitsa region, who are asking to compensate for the damage they suffered from their crops from the frost on 4-4-2015. MP Achaias Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed reports to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: "Proposals from the Panhellenic Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives on their sectoral issues". To the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, a request from a citizen to promote the establishment of Italian teaching in schools by Italian graduates. To the Minister of Culture, Education and Sport, a request from the Supreme Confederacy of Multi-Technicians to resolve the issue of favourable relocations, as regards their own protectors of multiple families and their children, in so far as a decision of the Council of State has been taken on this matter, which justifies them. To the Minister of National Defence, a request from the President of the Union of Military Region of Epirus for equal pay for the personnel of the Armed Forces concerned with remuneration for the performance of the normal eight-hour service. To the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion, a request from the Pan-Hellenic Association of Educational Course Technicians, who highlight the need for its members to acquire the right to be included in candidates for the post of Director in the relevant secondary schools and not to be excluded from the relevant procedures. To the Health and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers, a report on the complaint of municipal officials collecting waste from the Municipality of Patras, on hospital waste in green containers. To the Minister of Health, on a report concerning the Hospital Workers' Association and Achaea Institutions, on the opening of the renovated seven-storey building of the Agios Andreas Hospital. To the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, a report on the immediate demolition of the dangerous shelter of the old port of Patras. To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, a report denounces the danger of most children's joys. To the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, a post on requests from the Trade Association of Kefalonia - Ithaca on the safeguarding of the Sunday holiday and other topical working issues. To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, a request from the inhabitants of the Zarouchleik region that highlight the danger to public health from the arbitrary placement of an antenna of mobile phones within a hundred metres from existing schools. To the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, a request from the Pan-Hellenic Association of Educational Workers of Physical Education to increase the hours of the course of Physical Education in primary and secondary education. To the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on proposals by a citizen to deal with violence in sport. To the Minister of Finance, a request from the Institute of Consumers of Corinthia to take special initiatives in the areas of banking operation, to manage late payment of red bank loans and to manage citizens’ debt management to avoid an increase in auctions and misappropriation of micro-enterprises.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Circa, wait a minute, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 130th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Mr. Circa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u4	To the Minister for Health a citizen's request for clarifications from the Minister responsible for the existing cooperation scheme of a German company with a role as supplier to the National Health System. To the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism a request from the unions involved in the operation of the Corinth Canal for investigation by the responsible political leadership of correctness or non-economic management as exercised by the relevant administration. To the Ministers for Health, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism a request from the Workers' Association "IPPOURATIS" to investigate intentions for related handling by the relevant Minister on a series of serious operational issues and problems relating to the operation of the General Hospital of Patras. To the Minister of National Defence and Economic Request from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Military Associations to render clarifications of consequences that will be caused by the transfer made available by general government bodies to the Bank of Greece. To the Prime Minister and the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Economics, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, a citizen's request to take initiatives by the Government for state change and for institutional reorganisations concerning the responsibilities of these Ministries. To the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance, the Medical Association of Patras for the need to provide solutions to the issue of the lack of liquidity of the EEAS in order to avoid its going bankrupt and therefore to break relations with professional doctors. To the Ministers for Health, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Economic, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, a request from the National Confederation of Persons with Disabilities to continue the operation of all Creative Employment Centres for Children with Disabilities - ACE and Creative Day Care Centres for the Elderly (KIFI) in the coming September. To the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, a communiqué concerning a communication from the Patras Workshop Centre, which requests more controls from the EIC in enterprises, due to an increase in occupational accidents at construction sites and the illegal donation of workers. To the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction a report on a protest against the residents of the Achaea Prefecture in their efforts to raise awareness of state institutions to post photographs of drug addicts on online social media. To the Minister of Finance, which refers to the implementation of the decision of the CoC to pay retrospectively to the personnel of the Armed Forces. To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction a request from a citizen for the adoption of an amendment to the re-establishment of the Municipal Police and for the resolution of the work gaps of the former employees. To the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, the Greek Society's request regarding the reintegration of the Sociology course into secondary education and, in particular, to the test material for the pan-Hellenic admission examinations in tertiary education. To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, proposals from a citizen to regulate the employment uncertainties of former employees in municipal police services. To the Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Ministers, and to the Minister of State for the fight against corruption, a report on the privileged and peculiar immunity of Mr. Melissanides, given the existence of debts on his part to the Greek State. To the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence, a protest by the National Association of "North Epirus 1914" about the possibility of the Greek Consulate closing down in Kortsa. To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction a request from a citizen for the re-establishment of the Municipal Police. To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, a request from another citizen for the re-establishment of the Municipal Police. To the Minister of National Defence a request from a citizen for the suspension of reservations in favour of the mutual assistance fund on the payroll of Long Theatre Volunteers. To the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, a request from the Professional-Scientific Association of Engineering Technology on the implementation of the election commitment of the current political leadership to the concession of the sea front to the city of Patras and its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr Circa. The announcement of petitions has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Mr Synthrakis and Mr Loverdos are here, whose question has been postponed or in any case there is a point of order. If there is no objection, we will give them the reason to refer to them for a moment. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor and Mr. Loverdos follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Today was a topical question from the Communist Party of Greece about the biomass combustion plant in the place Municipal Counsels Peri of the Municipality of Faistos of the Regional Unit of Heraklion. The KKE MEP is here, the Minister is not here. I would like to take this step in denounce the Minister's attitude to the following fact, because it is the second postponement of the timely question and not just that, but a previous question had been raised on the same subject on 20 February, that is, three months ago. Mr Lafazanis did not reply, Mr Voutsis, the Minister for the Interior, said that he was not his responsibility, but that he was the responsibility of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u8	We're not going to discuss the question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u9	Yes, but the Minister did not answer the question either, which is why we had to put it as a timely question. I therefore think that the Bureau of Parliament should also see how parliamentary control is carried out and respond not to us but to the people of the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u10	Let's not have this conversation now. Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I have known the Minister for many years now. In fact, I would point out that we have the same date of entry into Parliament, with the vote of the Greek people, some years ago and I have nothing personal to him, on the contrary, I appreciate him why he is sincere, a representative of the drachma straight away, he does not hide like others. But, Mr President, I will say something and I do not do it often. I have in mind the Minister as Parliamentary spokesman for the Grand Responsibility and also Eleanos in the past, here in this Chamber, when the ministers did not come to respond to parliamentary scrutiny, to speak in a very strong way about anti-parliamentary practices, Parliament's contempt and the related issues. He took care, however, of copying these methods as soon as he became Minister. And because, as Minister, in all the years I have been Minister, I have always respected this House and I or the Undersecretaries with whom I was working, we have been here to answer parliamentary control, to current parliamentary control, and only exceptionally, if there was something excessive and in agreement with colleagues, we have always identified on another date the question - and no one can give me any contrary behaviour - I am entitled to be here, Mr President, to denounce. I denounce Mr Lafazani because I asked him a question about the RAE. I did nothing too much, a written question. He didn't answer her. I understand that, because in the written parliamentary control, Mr President, every minister has been piled up with full questions and the services are blocked. I understand that. I changed my written question in time after a month and a half. He's asked for a postponement. I get it. He had obligations last Friday. We must understand the ministers. But today, Mr President, I am told by his office that he is not coming because he is going to talk to ECONOMIST. To go to 'ECONOMIST', but to respect Parliament as well. I denounce him. I write to the President of Parliament a letter of complaint. I call on her, because she made various programme statements, when we voted, to withdraw him to parliamentary order. I would also like to say, Mr President, that, in order to prove the timeliness of my question to a minister who does not respect neither Parliament nor his homeland, the letter sent to him by the European Commissioner for the completely wrong energy policy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I wouldn't testify to it, but I wanted to ask him frankly, Mr President, and answer me with his views...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u12	Let's not discuss the question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u13	It flees and despises Parliament. And he contradicts himself with his recent self, having been lost in a recent memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u14	All right, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u15	Not right at all, Mr President! Unfortunately, it's not okay!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u16	Okay. There's no reason to raise the tons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u17	We're all judging. That's what we're going to raise the tons!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u18	Okay. Obviously the absence of a presence is due to what we have also been informed of, the existence of an impediment. I think next time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u19	Could he not go to ECONOMIST and come here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u20	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u21	I do not have the floor, but I am right, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u22	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u23	I have no reason why you deprive me of it. But I'm right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u24	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u25	We've been through them all these years!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u26	The second question under number 190/5-2015 will now be discussed in the context of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the use of the European Regulation (EC) for good health claims on the label of Greek olive oils. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Kasapidis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I have to table, for my part, the consistency of the presence of the Minister in parliamentary control, since it is the second timely question I ask, Mr President, and is present. In fact, today's timely question concerning the use of the regulation which enables the indication of good health in Greek olive oils, because it has not yet been applied to Greek production, remains timely this proposal to use the regulation until today, when this regulation was first adopted. So, Minister, what does this regulation say? 432/2012? In December 2012, it was published by the competent European Commission. According to the studies carried out by the special agency of the European Union, it has been shown that since European Union olive oils contain some substances at a specific concentration, then producers are given the opportunity to indicate on their packaging that these oils are suitable and help the good health of consumers. It is the famous "strengthening of good health", as it is said in Greek. Since then, however, although I have also tabled questions and topical questions to your predecessors, Mr Ministers, unfortunately, to date there has been not a single Greek workshop, Mr Minister, accredited to do these analyses and to be valid and correct and to be recognized by the international markets, so that Greek producers can serve as natural persons or as legal persons, and these bodies, private individuals, are forced to resort to foreign laboratories to make these analyses, obtain accreditation and effectively try to trade their products. The question is whether it is in the intention of the new political leadership to close this issue soon. We are six months before the next harvest, Minister. We have time to proceed to an accreditation of some laboratories to do these analyses. Secondly, these analyses further strengthen the good reputation of Greek olive oils in terms of their quality. What are your intentions of making use of this possibility in a national olive-growing strategy now, which will enable our olive oils to win the world's best markets, given that the Greek standard olive oil accounts for only 4% of the world market? Because while we are the third power in world olive oil production, we only have 4% of the standardised Greek olive oil packed on the world market. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u28	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u29	First of all, I would like to thank you for the good words that result from the consequence of my presence. Because I, as a Member of Parliament, have previously called for the same claims, you understand that we need to respond, let alone when parliamentary scrutiny answers questions from society, not just from the Member. As you know, dear fellow Member, the issue of invoking health claims is not just a matter of ours. It is a matter that has been regulated at Union level in accordance with the work provided for in Regulation No 432/2012. Under the regulation, in respect of olive oil, two health claims, polyphenols and monounsaturated fatty acids have been approved. In particular, it is stated that they contribute to the protection of blood lipids from oxidative stress. It is therefore clear that the invoicing on the labelling of the products in question requires compliance with the requirements laid down in this Regulation. This means that olive oil should have a content, for example in the case of polyphenols, over five milligrams per twenty grams of olive oil, throughout its minimum retention time. Indeed, according to our own Single Food Control Body, the FEFET, any substance belonging to these associations mentioned for the use of the above claim, can be used to substantiate it. Consequently, the claim invoked is entirely at the discretion of the undertakings themselves which repair and trade in olive oils on the market, and they will obviously assess the guaranteed way in which they will be given a comparative advantage in the context of competition, in order to use it. We are going to take initiatives concerning a systematic study and a mapping of reality at national level, not only by staying at the emotive stage, but all the way, I would say, until the product's sustainability is stopped, that the limits laid down in this regulation will apply. Already EFET is in contact, both with the network of official control laboratories and with scientific bodies, so that we can immediately create the conditions, in order to meet the requirements of official food control, and we believe that in a very short time, before the deadline expires, we will also have a concrete response to a specific control laboratory that will do and monitor these procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kasapidis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I welcome your response to the commitment within the deadline, before the start of the new harvest season, i.e. about October, November, that these procedures have been completed and that we have at least one accredited laboratory in our country, in order to make these analyses so that Greek producers or businesses do not resort to workshops abroad. This is really a national issue, because it concerns our national product, since olive oil and olive oil generally give employment and income to six hundred thousand Greek families. It is the cultivation that finds soil in all the prefectures of the country, except four that are mainly not raining from the sea. It is the country's first or second export product every year along with the fish. As a country we are the third in the global classification of production after Spain and Italy. We're the first country in the world to produce quality olive oil. However, as I said before, we only have 4% of the world market with Greek, standardized, packed olive oil, because other channels take Greek olive oil in bulk, baptize it either Italian or Spanish and circulate it on the world market. There has been an article since 2012 at the 'NEW YORK TIMES' which states that olive oil and feta can give such impetus to the Greek economy that we will literally be able to break out of the end of this crisis that we are currently experiencing. However, until now, these two basic products have not been taken into account in such actions. I would therefore like to point out the importance of these polyphenols, namely oleosin and oleokanthale, which are derivatives of oleo Europain, which are in the order of the derivatives of the other hydroxytyrosol, described in the European Regulation. I am referring to these substances, because there is a dispute, Mr Minister, between various scientists who do not recognize this identity of these substances as substances described in the regulation for reasons which certainly do not serve the scientific truth, since there is an investigation of the University of Athens, the Pharmaceutical School, Professor Mayatis, published in an approved international journal, which recognises the identity of these substances. However, some other interests - I cannot help explaining - do not want this confirmation to be adopted and approved in substance. That is why your Ministry should, in essence, make it clear whether olive oil and olive oil are derivatives of these complex substances described in the Rules of Procedure and then it will have finalised the matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President, if I may. It is important because, as you mentioned above, the effort you want to do, namely to see the entire production process in the olive oil production process from the field to consumption, depends not only on the variety and microclimate, but also on the degree of ripening of olives, the type of olive mill, the extent to which olives are expressed and the degree of irrigation or irrigation. These are parameters that determine the content of these substances, quality indicators that are now recognised by the global market. If, Minister, you can make this clear, and taking these parameters into account in a draft national olive-growing strategy for the country and inform the producers in the'so-called' issue - that they must gather the olives sour, that it must not be watered, that, depending on the geographical area, specific varieties are appropriate, that we must have biphasically olive-treated olive-growths and to an extent not exceeding 27 degrees Celsius - then quantified we can say that from the two hundred and fifty thousand tonnes of olive-oil, at least half of which is twenty-five thousand is higher, of the highest quality and unbelievable worldwide. This means at least a 30% increase in the producer price - of EUR 1 to EUR 2 - and final price on the American market, which is the best market in the world in olive oil, selling these olive oils at around EUR 20 per litre. You understand, what the revenue is for producers, for Greek businesses, but also for our state, Minister, since, from the income tax of 10% to 13%, which is for farmers and from VAT - we do not know where it will end up with olive oil - our state will have warm money in the next six months from the next harvesting season. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u33	Indeed, invoking health claims for olive oil is really a very powerful weapon, not only to increase competitiveness, but also, at the same time, to add value, which is also one of the things we need for our agricultural products. The initiative we are taking will indeed be in the direction of what you have been talking about. But, apart from persuading the operators themselves, the producers in the area, we must certainly also be in consultation with the scientific bodies, with the laboratories, so that this can also be scientifically substantiated, because it concerns health issues. We will really try, because another way out is being opened for olive oil, for which, unfortunately, as the figures show and as you mentioned, we really have only 4% of the standard oil on the world market and, indeed, at a downward trend, as from 6% we came to 4%. We also have the big problem with the export of bulk olive oil, because only 27%, ladies and gentlemen, is standardized, when in competitive countries, that is, in Spain, 50% is printed and in Italy 80%. As far as Italy is concerned, of the hundreds of fifteen thousand tonnes we export, 80% of them go to Italy is standardized, to reach 80%, which we have said before and, unfortunately, some of them are also returning to our country. So the olive oil sector, generally the olive sector, has a huge potential. We must look at it by exhausting all the possibilities that the Rules of Procedure give us, but at the same time also the possibilities that the product itself gives us. Such questions - I stress them - help and help us all in the direction of the person concerned. And the issue is the competitiveness of Greek agriculture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. Next, the third, with number 173/30-4-2015, is a top-level question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the risk of defamation of Greek agricultural products due to the uncontrolled use of illegal pesticides. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. You have the floor, Mr. Micho, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, good morning. You'll allow me to make a little complaint. Yesterday and today at the height of Katechaki and the Mediterranean have shut down the streets people who want to get a green card. If they want to protest, there are sidewalks, there's another way to avoid so many hours of people who want to go to work. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you. As far as we are concerned, Minister, you know very well what is going on with pesticides and the smuggling of pesticides from countries such as Skopje and Bulgaria. We have a very serious export issue here. In other words, if they stop accepting our products too, these few - because from Russia there is one issue - from the European Union, our economy will sink, farmers and producers will sink, nothing will go well. Apart from that, it is a serious matter of public health and ours and Europeans. So I want you to say: Is controls to be increased so that everyone involved in illegal import, possession and marketing of unauthorised pesticides can be identified? Will they ensure more intensive and more complete controls on Greek agricultural products so that all those in illegal use or unauthorised pesticides can be identified?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u37	The problem of the import and placing on the market of illegal plant protection products is pan-European, but particularly acidic, in our country and with countries of origin, what you mentioned. In fact, because of the economic crisis we are experiencing, the problem is becoming more acute. In the last three years, checks have been carried out which, although they have not responded to the need to deal with the problem, have found too many and significant infringements. We believe that by modernising, strengthening official controls and - I would say - in particular by intensifying, that is to say, the frequent presence of control mechanisms, there is a possibility that we will have a better deal. I would like to point out to you that legislation is quite strict. It provides for a fine of EUR 1000 to 30000. In fact, in the event of a relapse, it provides for doubling. It provides for the confiscation of the products concerned and for the imposition of imprisonment from three months to one year. In addition, producers are deprived of the aid, and in the event of a finding of possession, handling or use of these products, they do not take all their subsidies as a whole and even lose their rights. With the compulsory introduction of prescribing since September 2015 - we have already introduced it - we are certainly expecting better control over illegal agricultural medicines in general. At the same time, of course, a material is distributed to the shops for the marketing of agricultural products to thousands of producers for guidance. In other words, we believe that through this process the farmer himself - because that is what is being called for - must understand that the temporary benefit which he can have from the least economic cost is minimal in relation to the effects - even the economic effects he will have from his productive activity. I'll talk to my dentist about how the Department's services work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Micho, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Another point, Minister, is on the islands, such as Rhodes, Kos. They are importing very large pesticides from Turkey. As we all know, pesticides and in general the medicines produced in this country, as in the countries I mentioned before, are of doubtful quality. That's where we've got a lot of introduction. Then I want to ask what will happen with drugs like Roundup, which contains gluphosate. It's not dispersed in the ground. No matter rain, no matter how much water it falls, this medicine doesn't break down, it goes to the aquifer and it becomes a carcinogen. So either you drink it in water or you drink it, it's the same thing again. It's extremely poisonous. At one time, the geopsies were giving this medicine for biological purposes, which is unacceptable. They didn’t tell buyers and people who wanted to dig a small piece of land and make a little enclosure of what it contains, what danger it is, what substances it has and how to use it. That's what's happening so far. All they care about is profit. We're in a country where there's the best ground. Why don’t you do something to promote organic farming much more so as to avoid these drugs: You also said something about legislation. Legislation exists. I know there is, but it's not kept. I happen to keep a small animal feed business in Evia. I used to go to the past, and I personally wore the raw materials for my shop. All the farmers - and above all the big ones - - who were going to the countryside of Livade, in Elia, everywhere were going and bringing tons of agricultural pesticides from Bulgaria. How these were to be crossed across borders, since they appeared, because here we are talking about farmers cultivating two thousand acres, cotton, corn, clover, wheat. They all brought them from Bulgaria on their own. They were on their way to the farm tops or to the trucks of three tons and they brought them on their own. How did they cross the border? It is also necessary to check on producers. They have to get a few tiles out, at least go to the big producers, start from there. To make some checks. They should also look at the medicines, where they have been brought and all that stuff, so that a job can be started and with thicker fines and poorer 'cambanos', because no one can play with people's health.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u41	Indeed, the problems are multiple and indeed if, above all, the farmer himself does not realize that he should not use these products, the problem cannot be dealt with effectively. All right, the checks are done. I'm really telling you. They're auditing the services. We work with other competent authorities, we work with the other states. However, the problem is also acute, as we have announced recently, we will also be taking an intervention in the process of training for the rational use of pesticides. It is one of the issues we will address. There's a special theme, special risks. We will see this and until September, October, we will proceed with this particular process. We have announced that this will in some way be done with the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development through bodies of public interest. But I really want us all to accept that in the crisis that we are experiencing and with the lack of staff we have - especially in the Ministry of Rural Development - the officials, the rural people, cannot respond to the needs that exist. So, as I have said, we will nevertheless insist on the intensification of these controls, and we believe that, within and through the material that we will distribute and the contacts we will have with the rural world, the conditions for reversing the climate that exists in this area will be created.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the fourth under No 179/4-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of the River. Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the cancellation of the school fruit promotion programme for the current period. Mr. Apostle is present and will answer. Mr. Hadjimitriou, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question concerns the cancellation of the school fruit promotion programme. With great disappointment, Potami, and in particular with even more disappointment, parents and students learned that it was finally decided to cancel the international open tender for the promotion of the school fruit and vegetable project. You know, Minister, as we all know, that from the elements of the World Health Organisation it appears that our children, children of Europe, at the age of six to nine are obese and overweight. That's what he was trying to deal with. In fact, he wanted to teach our children the value of consumption of vegetables and fruit. The programme started in the school year 2009-2010 and was widely accepted in order to make the distribution of fruit and vegetables in our schools. The competition included schools in the Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, Western Greece, Western Macedonia, Epirus, Thessaly, Peloponnese, Central Greece and in the Regional Units of Imathia, Kilkis, Pellas, Pierre, Halkidiki and Prefecture of Serres. There was a distribution of certain products. There is regulatory decision 278/2009, there was a ministerial decision by the previous Minister. You, however, decided that this programme could not be implemented. So the river and I personally fall in love with you: Why did the procedures for conducting this invitation not start in time, despite the fact that the relevant government ministerial decision was published in December 2014 by the previous Minister, Mr Karasmani? How does the relevant Ministry justify not taking advantage of Community funds for educational purposes at such an economic juncture? Does the state intend to carry out the programme with national resources? It should be noted that we would receive 3.1 million from the European Union and 1.3 million from this programme. As you can see, it is a time when even our farmers need such programmes, because, even if they are small, they support and strengthen their income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Hadjimitriou. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u45	My dear colleague, one of the many issues that we found outstanding by receiving the Ministry, was the promotion of fruit consumption in the current period. Indeed, there was this December decision, but there was no decision to open the tender. First of all, let us agree that this programme is fully supported by the European Parliament, by the European Commission and is an initiative by the European Union, thanks to which fresh fruit and vegetables are offered to schoolchildren, with the philosophy not only of increasing consumption, but above all of getting children into a diet and dealing with the problems you have mentioned in your report. Therefore, on 18 February, we sought, through an international open tender, a body implementing the project and the accompanying measures for the school year 2014-2015. An invitation to tender and an indication on 1 April 2015 was provided for, in order to allow the distribution of fruit and vegetables to be completed until the last working day of the school year that we are spending. Why did the competition fall? The reduction in the tendering procedure was first because there was no possibility of the project being carried out, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, since no tender was submitted by a candidate for the contract notice relating to the subjectmatter of the tendering procedure. In other words, there was no one who asked through procedures, which had already been launched, the taking over of the distribution of fresh and processed products, that is, schools. Secondly, there was a problem because of the limited period of time for the project to be carried out, as it was not possible to reopen the tendering procedure after the deadline, to which those who would take over the project did not appear, as there is an institutional framework that lays down specific conditions which could not be fulfilled by the end of the year. In my dentistry, I'll tell you what we're planning to do for next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. Mr. Hadjimitriou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we should probably start from your dentistry, because that was what was known. So I will enrich with two more questions my question, to answer a whole question. So what you said is, firstly, that there was no offer from contractors. We have a gap in what will happen in these cases. Because of the economic crisis, it is likely that the same will happen to other such competitions that are very important. In particular, the competitions concerning our children and their health are very important. We should probably draw up solutions for cases where the competitions do not go ahead, even if we go ahead - and we should all support it - by direct delegation. Because, as you can see, firstly, our children were deprived of fresh fruit and vegetables and, secondly, we lost 3.1 million that was European Union money. The 1.3 million was the supplement from our side. And this money, at these times, would be an aid to our country's farmers, anyway. From there on, you know very well that parents and children do not easily understand from wooden wordings and procedural problems. So you'll probably have to contribute, as we see you're active and you're trying to deal with the problems. It is another question of the solution, but you certainly have it. Of course we are also at your disposal as a river, because such issues do not have a party, a colour or different opinions. One is the view and one must be the effort and be shared. Minister, I would like to add a little more to my question, because you have the experience of previous years. Is it true that many times the competitions did not lead anywhere, because those who participated deliberately created problems because of extreme competition? You know the complaints that exist about the quality of products that eventually reached the hands of our children. You are surely aware of these specific complaints, which have been made many times. I would also like to supplement my basic question, which is something I do not want to see as a bad thing. Is this the lack of EUR 1.3 million, which we must fill in as a state - and because the amount involved is made through OPEKEPE, if I’m not mistaken - to lead to the annulment of the tender or the fear of the participants or contractors in order not to participate in this tender? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u49	Now you're actually into it. First of all, there is nothing, but there is no way that this decision has been withdrawn because of the EUR 1.3 million involved in state participation, as you have said. The OPECE is available to cover multiples, I would say, obligations - if they were - from the implementation of this programme. But it is time to see what has happened so far in previous years: It wasn't good - I'm just using this word - the execution of the program. We do not want to repeat phenomena like those of the distribution of degraded quality products. Mr President, the students imported have eaten and, indeed, remains have been found. Even pears from Argentina have come. I don't want to say any more details. So we need to see how we create those conditions so that next year we can get into a course of good implementation of this programme. In fact, our desire is, in consultation with the Ministry of Education, to implement this programme, not only at the level of use of fresh products, fruits, etc., but also at the level of the pupils' information on the need for these products to be incorporated into their diet. I am talking about what you mentioned earlier, namely the treatment of obesity. We call it a healthy diet. We are therefore in contact with the Ministry of Education, as I have told you, and with institutions in general in the rural area, planning this project for next year. At the moment, the Ministry is unable to take over this project. You know what shortcomings there are in personnel. So we cannot get into this process. But we'll have a co-operation. Because I spoke to you earlier about a programme that we are starting and which concerns particularly information activities for schools, for children about the need to consume fresh fruit and vegetables, I tell you that we have already signed a programme of EUR 2 200 000. A body implementing this programme, after the signature of the relevant contract, is the Agricultural Cooperative of Pelion Zagora. The aim is, by assisting us, by monitoring, serving - as far as possible - what is a basic target and yours and ours. The programme includes visits, updates. I would say that it is a chain of intervention, which we believe helps in this direction. In conclusion, I would like to say that we really also need your presence and participation in this effort, especially because you come from a space, from northern Greece, where a large part of fruit and vegetables must be absorbed from these areas. We know the problems of the embargo. And because there is also the possibility of financing this withdrawal for social reasons and by the European Commission, we must look at it as a whole, so that it is also efficient for producers and, of course, for pupils to consume health products in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we discuss the last of the topical and urgent questions, I shall read out the questions which, for various reasons, are not discussed today. The first 186/5-2015 topical question of the first cycle of MP II, Athens Region of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diakrias to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the study of the settlement - delimitation of the Great Remay of Rafina, will not be discussed due to irresponsibility and deleted. The fifth question under No 178/4-5-2015, first question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning recourse to the justice of television stations for decisions of the Minister of State to pay the frequency fee, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment and deleted. The second question under number 166/28-4-2015 the second question of the Attica MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mrs.Ilias Cassiri to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the exploitation of our national wealth and energy policy, will not be discussed due to a Minister's blockade and deleted. The first question with number 1402/1-4-2015 by MP B' Athens Region of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the delay in the suspension of Forest Papers and measures to protect forests and forest areas, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment and deleted. The second question, under number 546/6-3-2015, by MP, Mr Georgios Amyras, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the commitments made by the Government in environmental and energy matters, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment and deleted. The third question with number 1127/26-3-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the River Mr Spyridon Danellis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the late payments of the “House Settlement” programme will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment and deleted. The fourth question by number 176/20-2-2015, question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the biomass plant in Kopanadas, P.E. Hercules, it will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment and deleted. The fifth question by MP II of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the Regulatory Authority for Energy will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment and deleted. For the questions from Mr Synthraki and Mr Loverdou, an extensive reference was made from the side of the two Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 20th Municipal School of Ilioupoli. Also, from the same theories are attending the meeting, after they were toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized, fifty students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Ellinikos School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the last for today, the first with number 181/5-2015, a topical question by the MP Argolidis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Kidelas to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the certificate of knowledge and training in the rational use of agricultural medicines. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Kidela, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u51	Minister, the question concerns the examinations that farmers were asked to give on the certificate of knowledge in the rational use of pesticides. In fact, this as a need arises from the 2009 Community Directive on the rational use of pesticides. However, at this point, I would like to read what exactly the 2009 Community Directive says. In Article 5, therefore, entitled ‘Training’ states that until 14 December 2013 Member States shall establish certificate systems and designate the competent authorities responsible for their implementation. These certificates shall provide at least proof of sufficient knowledge of the themes listed in Annex I, which shall be acquired either by training or by other means. I would mention that, because then on the basis of n. 4036 this directive was incorporated into the National Law and then with the National Law of 22-7-2013, and while, in fact, the Community directive is mainly talking about training in order to ensure adequate knowledge of the issues of rational management of pesticides, the burden is essentially given to a system of examinations, which is awarded through them. In fact, these tests involve two hundred and twenty questions that farmers should know, which will be examined in fifty of them. Examinations are multiple options. The farmer pays a fee to participate, which started from 100 euros. Just last January the previous government made a gradual reduction, i.e. EUR 25 to 31 March and EUR 50 from 1 April to 31 August and EUR 100 from 1 September. The bodies to which farmers could give examinations are mainly private. Just to tell you what I am saying in my question, namely that on 20 April 2015 there were three hundred eighty-two private and just two public training providers and threety-seven private examination centres and just seven public. The question also concerns the ageing composition, Mr Minister, but also the structural problems of Greek agriculture and the rural population, the Greek farmers, which you know very well. On the basis of the low level of education they have and on the basis of the low degree of familiarity with the new technologies, we believe that this system is ineffective and will lead to great suffering for Greek farmers. We also consider that it adds financial burdens, since the end is there, but it also goes through private IEC, which have opened up a fabric. The last point of criticism relates to opacity, as there are disturbances by private IEK, where they say that with EUR 70, 75 and 100 others fill in the questions and gets the farmer the certificate in hand. The question therefore concerns what action the Ministry is going to take to simplify the system for the allocation of rational use certificates for agricultural products, to find alternative examination methods of education and the award of certificates and to support the public education system for farmers, in order to avoid unnecessary suffering for farmers and their financial burden in the interests of private interests. In fact, Minister, there could be a parallel system in which examinations can be maintained and five-year certificates of knowledge should be issued, but, at the same time, there should also be a process of seminars, namely education and anyone who attends these seminars, taking a two-year or three-year certificate, until he can take an examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Kidela. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u53	My dear colleague, as you know, our Ministry's priority is to help producers properly and rationally use plant protection products and, of course, to facilitate them in the training and certification process. However, there is a rule which obliges us to certain things. We will try to combine them both, in particular by simplifying procedures and making them effective at the same time. Just a few days ago we announced that the process of certification of farmers will be carried out under the responsibility of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction in the educational and research structures of the "ELGO - DIMITRA" Agency, as well as in its regional services. That is to say, the activation of public bodies to provide free training to producers, who will only be able to examine the paradox, from EUR 100 to EUR 25 and from then on to EUR 50 by the end of the year. Above all, we are doing so in order for farmers to come in good time and move on to this process. The whole examination procedure is also simplified, with a 30% reduction in the total number of questions, and during the examinations producers will have to respond successfully to twenty of the forty questions. I think we're getting into a process of simplification. As far as the plan for the rational use of medicines is concerned, of course, I told you that this directive exists. We, starting an effort, will try to simplify this whole process. In fact, public bodies are entering, but private bodies too. Some of the public bodies are "ELGO - DIMITRA", the higher education institutions, the Benacio Plant Health Institute, as well as any other public body that can provide this object. There are also private operators, who will be in the first phase of this process. These, however, with a specific time horizon, because, as we have said, it is our priority that public bodies play a key role and as much as possible along the way to meet the needs of rural areas, which will certainly not be accompanied by a payment of any - not even a minimum price. So, as you can see, everything now goes to public bodies, effectively abolishing private individuals through this process. More I'll tell my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. Mr. Kidelas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u55	Minister, first of all I should like to begin by saying that, although we want to facilitate the process, we are very much in favour of the education of farmers - to be clear - and for the health of themselves, but also for the quality and hygiene of the products they produce. I think that what you have mentioned is positive initiatives to simplify the system and reduce costs. I would, however, like to stress the need for greater courage, in my view, for this very simple reason: The Ministry's previous reasoning, built over three, four years, because we are discussing a Community directive in 2009 that comes in 2015 and, in fact, by October 2015 - that is, the dates, the deadlines are too suffocating - is this: by the current procedure, as has been built, a matter that is dealt with in a fairly bureaucratic and technocratic way, which concerns thousands of rural people. And I say this because we need to get into the farmers' situation, and the Ministry's services must go a little bit on the other hand. In this sense, farmers have the great challenges for their production and survival. And I am not talking about farmers either on the sofa or on the subsidies. I am referring to the farmers who make their own production, there the sweat is condensed, the trouble, the agony, every month, if you would like to see the fight against natural phenomena and the weather, with the ELGA who must see how it is reformed, with the charisma that these days are called upon to pay the IACC, with the tax which comes, despite the important government's initiative to exclude subsidies of up to EUR 12 000 and compensation. I mean, the Greek farmer feels a great alienation, removal, and even hostility against the Greek state. And that, if you will, for us is a bet on how to build links of confidence, so that together we all become partners in a common struggle, which we have - and the state with the current government, but also the rural world - to support production, farmers and ultimately the economy and the country itself. In this sense, I think we should look at this issue with sufficient sensitivity and flexibility, without going back on the old. But if we can change it in a way that we do not come before problems. Because at the end of the deadline there will be many thousands of people who will not have passed the tests, they will not be entitled to take drugs, which means they will not be able to produce them. You mentioned something very important for the structures of the "ELGO - DIMITRA". It is important for all this to be done both inside or mainly through public bodies. These are structures that are devastated - several of them - and which show - and I shall mention specifically after that - the image of a Greece that has collapsed substantially and which have been methodically deprived of the opportunity to stand on its feet. Minister, on Tuesday I visited the JRC, the Centre for Agricultural Education in Argolida. The situation is hopeless. And this is happening all over the country. So you see the infrastructure that was there, ready, that worked several years ago and turned into deer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance. We're talking about an infrastructure that has a worker. Actually, it's safe. There's nothing else man can do. There's shreddedness and chairs that have been out since the 1980s. Mr President, if we wanted to film for the 1980s, we could go to this area and use it as a film. He doesn't even have internet and computers. I should also like to mention something that you know about: the Poros plant. It's eight hundred acres with only one worker, ready to throw up everything. I say this because, although days are difficult, they are contradictory and developments around us are curious, you know these problems and I am sure you have shown interest before and now in this period. If I want to keep something from your position, because even the examinations - I think this needs to be changed - come and go, it is how we manage, try and exhaust every possibility of giving back life to those structures that exist and are devastated, education and research structures, so that the farmer really feels that the money he gives from the tax he gets, or even those 25 euros he will be asked to give, will be rewarding and will return next to him. So I think this work is important. The numbers of people, to serve these infrastructures are not large. And in a country where young scientists, with expertise, with postgraduate, trained people, are deprived of the right to work and to offer and prosecute in immigration, it is important to see how these infrastructures can be directed immediately to actually work. The rural world will recognize that. The rural world is asking for it. And if you want a symbolism, that this country's production machine is finally reliving, so that it can stand on its feet and successfully face, if you want, extortion and ultimatum from anyone who wants another course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. It is a multitude of problems in rural areas. Our aim is to tackle them radically. We are in front of claws, which we cannot deal with by cutting. However, we can methodically, through road-based procedures, deal with them. And I mention it as an example, since you have said so in your position: Is it now possible to talk about a project that, if we compare it to the possibilities of ELGO - DIMITRA, and with all its spread to the rest of Greece, we can discuss who will do the specific job? Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, with regard to the use of the facilities of the Ministry, its real estate, the facilities of the Ministry, I would say that there really is a mess, which we absolutely have to deal with. In particular, we must put it in a course of making use of all the possibilities it has. Honestly - and I am referring more generally to the agencies and their whole function - there are such claws, such dependencies, a structure that creates us obstacles. But we'll deal with it. And indeed, we need the help of the Members of Parliament, of all the actors in the rural area, so that all these possibilities which we have previously discussed and which we all accept for the rural area with an effort and a few changes can be implemented. We'll be in constant communication. We'll keep an eye on the issues. That's the start of this program. There's been an investigation. I do not want to be sad at the farmers, but they too are aware of this process of illegal use. They know her. Of course, let us not forget that there is also an economic situation that has literally devastated them. So we should all be together in this effort to have a final result, which will in particular bring the rural area to its proper place and deserve Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report of Monday 18 May 2015, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. - The 207/12-5-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Vassiliki Katrivanou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the new priorities of anti-criminal policy and the democratisation of the police. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The 195/8-5-2015 topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the draft merger plan for Police Departments. 3. - The Question No 204/11-5-2015 by MP Pireas of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the treatment of the unemployment of Greek seafarers. 4. - The question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the reform of the rules of operation of TIERISIA SA, the finding of a solution for business merchants and farmers unable to meet their financial obligations, as well as the reopening of the auctioning of the first place. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 196/8-5-2015 topical question by MP Thesprotia of New Democracy Mr. Vassiliou Jogakas to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the project "Manufacturing of pedestrians of the city of Paramithia" in Parathia Thesprotia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 205/11-5-2015 topical question by the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Artemios Matthaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the situation in the prisons of the country. 3. The Question No 202/11-5-2015 by MP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the Government's intention to employ thirty employees in the Municipality of Dirfyon - Messapion. 4. The 187/5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegenakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the deprivation of the fourteen regional airports. 5. The 172/30-4-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the legislative safeguarding of disability pensions and the undisclosed first residence. 6. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of the name of Macedonia to the Skopje". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1328/3-32015 of the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP for Athens of New Democracy Mr Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the privatisation of the Port Authority of Piraeus (PO). Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. I would like to ask the House: do you accept this point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-15-S1-commons.u59	With the consent of the House at 11.27; the sitting on Monday, 18 May 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
