ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 2-2-2015 authorisation, LZ's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Wednesday, December 2, 2015, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Bossible land of Greece and other provisions’.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Resolution of the State Budget for the financial year 2016’. I would like to inform you that yesterday we stopped at number 71 on the list of registered speakers. This means that all Members from those who have been registered - apart from very large unforeseen ones, which I do not think will arise - will speak because they went very well yesterday. I do not yet know the list of Ministers for today, but, anyway, they will speak. Since yesterday there have been the following loose ends, with which we will also begin, because there has been an agreement with the colleagues who were in the Bureau: we will start with Mr Mitsotakis, then Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos will speak. In the position of Mr Ursuzides, who was deleted because of a minor illness and we wish him pass, Mr. Rizzos, who was deleted yesterday not by his fault, but represented the President at the Romanian Embassy and could not be here and there. Then we will normally follow the list, with Mr. Cassidyri, Mr. Mustafa Mustafa, Mr. Vorides, Mr. Syrigos and continue. I think there is no objection, because apart from the matter with Mr Rizzo, who I take the initiative and say it, the other was agreed. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, speaking two days ago at the Annual Conference of the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce, said: "This year, although it is a good time to conclude with a positive signal for the Greek economy." This, ladies and gentlemen, must be 2015's shortest joke! Never has a government done so much damage to the economy in such a short time. The caravan, to which the Prime Minister referred, really goes ahead. It, however, crosses the desert of the real economy and the voices and screams, which are heard, are not from dogs, but from desperate citizens, who see the caravan driving the country into the abyss and the cliff. Only one year was enough to disguise all the expectations that SYRIZA and ANEL's unspeakable populism have produced election but also post-elections. And I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the facts are not entirely questionable: The economy is back in recession. And he returns to recession when the expectations for 2015 at the end of 2014 - our rapporteur, Mr Stakoras, mentioned it - were for a growth that would reach 3%. We must not forget that we are at a favourable international situation, with low oil prices, with a favourable euro-dollar rate, with credit relaxation. It is very likely that the Greek economy, if the previous government had not been disturbed, would have developed at a rate greater than 3%. And the Prime Minister is now coming to express satisfaction at the fact that, at best, we will not have a recession. Which we will have a recession in 2015! Public finances are relocating into deficit orbit and revenues, despite the tax storm, are the lowest in the last ten years. Investments have been frozen in the country as a whole. I have also seen a report by the Prime Minister in his speech to the Chamber of Deputies on the interest he allegedly displays in investment. But what you do as government is purely non-investmental. And all the messages you send to investors, domestics and foreigners are "do not come to invest in Greece, because you will find a country that permanently changes the rules of the game, which does not have a stable tax system, and which treats investors with disgrace and with strong suspicion". Of course I cannot comment on the fact that the Prime Minister referred to the recapitalisation of the banks, allegedly presenting it as a very great success of the government, because - he says - it has not exhausted all the amount that the Hellenic Republic had at its disposal to support the recapitalisation. Are you serious, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Do you know that the value of the shares held by the Financial Stability Fund in June 2014 was EUR 20 billion? Do you know what this value is today? It's zero! You have destroyed, with your handling from January to today, 20 billion euros of value. It is a unique phenomenon in the history of recapitalisations, which have become global. All the countries that have coerced their banks have succeeded and gained profits from this process. And America, which stalled the banks, then sold them with profit. The only country that has succeeded and recapitalised banks and the Greek State has been damaged to this extent was Greece. Are there no responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for this destruction of the value of the Greek taxpayer? I'm not standing on what happened to the small shareholders. After all they made an investment, they didn't come out, but 62% owned by the Greek State became 25%. That is why there are responsibilities. And these responsibilities have been named, Yiannis Varoufakis, Alexis Tsipras and all the government and all the financial staff, which once again, Mr President, I am surprised that he is not represented in this debate, as if he wanted to avoid his responsibilities. I don't see the financial staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u3	Why do you say so? Isn't the government represented, Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u4	The government is represented. The financial staff shall not be represented, Mr Contonis. I understand why you've come into a difficult position. But I do not think you are responsible for answering these questions as State Secretary for Sport. He's coming, I guess, sometime the financial staff. We'll hear the man in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u5	The government will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u6	Yes, yes, he will answer! Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u7	Minister, don't talk. I didn't give you the floor. What am I pretending to be here? The turf?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u8	But he's asking me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the gray reality, unfortunately, which you have imposed on the country with your failed choices. You know, however, that in this gray reality there is a Greece that resists, which creates and produces. It is Greece that wakes up early and sleeps late, which wants, in a stubborn way, to build and create in this country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need one more minute, Mr President. I have had the opportunity, Mr President, to return all of Greece to the election campaign that New Democracy has entered. Yes, but I met, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, throughout Greece, people creative, cooperatives in Kavala, who produce, in persuasive terms, kiwi and export, businesses in the continent, Mrs Asmakopoulou, who have been privatised and who today - when you were fighting these privatisations - give jobs to six and a half thousand milk producers. Also, I met worthy civil servants, like in Chania, where a mortgage guard voted for his whole file on his own initiative. All of these fight, in a persuasive sense of the times, to build a Greece that is creative and a Greece in which the values of excellence and dignity will finally be rewarded. So consensual to the modesty that you ask us, there will be no such thing. It will be created at some point, faster than you think, another consensus, a consensus to build Greece of excellence and dignity. This will, however, be a consensus, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and the ANELs, in which you will have no position at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u10	Mr Constantinople has the floor. I am obliged - because I have been informed since yesterday - at least for Mr Juliarakis to say that he has a small disease of the flu. He's sick, so he's rightly not here. The other two main ministers of the financial staff will hopefully appear. Mr. Juliarakis, however, is justified. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, being one of the financial staff here has nothing to do with the fact that there is a bit of a bit of one of us. It is about the questions that will be asked and it can certainly help in this effort of consensus - which you are also saying - so that there can be proposals and solutions to the big problems of the country. When I put to the Group of the European People's Party this summer the question of not voting for the third SYRIZA Memorandum - ANEL - I had raised three issues. The first point was that Mr. Tsipras mocks the political leaders and that he had decided to go to elections. The second was that it was a memorandum with 90% tax and 10% expenditure reduction. And thirdly, any positive decision we made would use it - as you are using it today - to the inner party and to the inner audience. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, even these few friends you had in different parties, who at some point wanted to support your efforts, you lost them as well. The love of coexistence will remain unfulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who has lived from 2009 to 2015 and has seen all this play, knows every day what is happening. He knows psychology - because we too have had very difficult times - he knows when the end ends slowly and knows everything from this step, even how the MPs applaud, because they do it and how they feel. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I expect that when the Prime Minister speaks, you will all applaud the PSI Committee's re-recommendation. I'm sure Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Tsipras will. But now that I said PSI, I thought about this. Who gives the PSI line? First I heard Mr. Paulopoulos talking. Then I heard Mr. Kammenos and then Mr. Tsipras. And I heard Mr Kammenos say - and I want to believe that it is not true - that he is consulting Kostas Karamanlis. Wasn't Holland on the phone and was he another French leader? Think about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now turn to the issues relating to the development sector in which I am responsible. I really thought - and Mr Gassis is here - of the prior agreement reached in the Committee of the Regions that the government has really decided to tell the truth. Not a few days have passed, Minister, and the budget has come to prove that you have nothing to do with the truth. Mr Contonis - since the others are not here, I hope you will note them - on page 89 of the budget you write that the funds for the NSRP 2013 are EUR 24.3 billion, the amendments are EUR 36 billion, the legal commitments - that is, what we have to pay - are EUR 30.2 billion. I'm telling you it's from last year 0.7 billion more. So what you're told - and they're laughing at you - by the Ministry's leadership, that they've been reconstructed, they've finally made no resolution. They have given more and incorporated more projects of 0.7 billion. And you've only got money for 20 billion. So, there's 9.5 billion missing. That means, ladies and gentlemen, you are doing two things. First, you will lose 1 to 1.5 billion. from the 2007-2013 program and you will be doing all right for the 2014-2020 program at least 40% of the projects from the old program. This, gentlemen, do you know? Do you think this in 2016 will not blow off the budget in the air? Secondly, we are pleased to say that the programme negotiated in 2014-2020 is not the pharaonic programme, but it concerns small and medium-sized enterprises and you are following us in what we have negotiated in the past period. You bring four major notices, which you welcome, for young people, for young entrepreneurs. And after a while, you understand, while announcing their proclamation, that you do not have an intermediary to implement them. And I reckon: Are you lying consciously or are you ignorant of matters? This means, ladies and gentlemen, that these notices will not even come out in March 2016. The third issue concerns development law. Mr. Stathakis said that from 1-1-2016 he will be in operation. When will you vote for him? Where are you writing in the budget, Minister, for the new development law a word, where are you planning a euro? How are you going to implement it? How will it be implemented from 1-1-2016? That's why we wanted Mr. Stathakis to be here to give us answers, Minister. We don't say it for any other reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u12	The budget must be written when the development law will be passed? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u13	I ask: Where are you going to get the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u14	Let go of that. That's all you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Contony, what's wrong with you today?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u16	But he's asking me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u17	But he doesn't ask you. He's asking the missing economic ministers. He doesn't ask you. Don't start like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u18	The other issue, ladies and gentlemen, concerns energy revenue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Constantinople, please, you must be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I have only three issues to mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u21	No, I can't leave you so much time. I've shown the tolerance I've shown to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u22	As far as energy revenues are concerned, there is a great deal to be done in industry and energy-intensive industries. A proposal has been tabled for ten months to the government and there is no result. I shall conclude, Mr President. SYRIZA's colleagues, Mr Trypho Alexiades, in his honour, brought a list the day before yesterday where the businessmen had more than one million regulations - I will not say that they were given 188 million, that is, what you took from the wine. I ask you: Do you want to know who the businessmen are? You want to. Why doesn't Mr Alexiadis bring the names? I would ask you to put forward a proposal from our parliamentary groups together so that Mr Alexiades can bring the names of the businessmen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u23	Be patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u24	I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with this. There are too many of our group, which Mr Tsipras called for in 2012 to vote against, such as Mrs Jacki - then Mrs Jackres said "it is ridiculous my accession concerns to SYRIZA" and I will table the document - and she told them to vote against and that they will have a bright future in SYRIZA. He made them all Ministers. We want to tell you, to your Members, and I think it is worth telling all the groups - that we will stop such cynical political transactions. We in our party will not accept anyone with any political transaction in order to be able to have a bright political future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u25	You say that? People laugh! Mr President, can PASOK say that it will stop political transactions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. Calm down. There's kids in the gallery too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of Alimos. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Rizzos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget we are debating today is the first of the four budgets that - as strong as we all are in here - will mark the government's budgetary strategy in the medium term. Of course, no one can ignore the real difficult social conditions, but at the same time no one has the right to ignore the existence of a specific roadmap of exiting the crisis. Despite the ironic dimension that many here give to the "first time left", unfortunately for them it should be understood that three times in 2015 the Greek people have rewarded the course of SYRIZA, supporting its actions and prospects through the SYRIZA program. It is noteworthy that the government's social priorities have even been transparent in the 2015 budget, which was not ours, by increasing expenditure on social protection by EUR 500 million. In today's budget total social expenditure is increased by 823 million euros. We have tried to achieve a combination of budgetary balance with social justice. How do we perceive this social justice in particular in the health field? It is the first time after a period of at least six years that permanent staff posts for the health system will be called, a health system that had brought it into a state of desertification, degrading, starting from primary care, from IKA, TEBE and all these funds and bringing public hospitals into crisis, such as this is what many want to call the capital's "marine", i.e. the "Evangelism". We have already announced that for the AS recruited until today his term of office will be extended until spring 2015. Let's not forget something else. When we say "social economy", we list it next to all other forms, such as the biomea effort or the effort that will be made with certain Lanara Group factories. They are in direct contrast with the policies that have been pursued so far. And not to say generalities, at least in the Prefecture of Evros, the "Greek Sugar Industry" has been put before, in the way that it entered, the Dimensional Police School and we are trying to make all other efforts to work the primary sector, a sector which, at least in 2014-2015, suffered catastrophes either by zoonoses or by floods. All of this gives me the right to say that I will vote for this budget and call on everyone else to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Mr. Ilias Cassidyris has the floor since the Golden Dawn. Next, Mr. Mustafa Mustafa from SYRIZA, Mr. Mavroudis Vorides from New Democracy and Mr. Syrigos Antonios from SYRIZA. You have the floor, Mr. Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u29	The SYRIZA - ANEL co-existence within a few months has succeeded in forensicing against Greece, has succeeded in definitively transforming the country into an economic protectorate of foreign forces, has brought Greek citizens to the tragic point to look back at the miserable governments of Merkel's homes, i.e. Jeffrey Papandreou, Venizelos and Samaras. The market has dryed, all the productive forces in the country have been levelled. Last crime, the famous recapitalisation of rescue banks borrowed by the Greek state, the Greek State, was paid off by the Greek citizen EUR 50 billion with the first Memorandum to save four systemic banks, which he rescued again, paying illegally for debt relief and the second Memorandum and now comes the third, left memorandum, the most ethnicly-progressive memorandum, to get a new loan to save the banks. In order for the ordinary Greek to understand what kind of crimes we are talking about, what a terrible criminal policy we are talking about, to say that the Eurobank Bank was "saved" by destroying Greek citizens. The Financial Stability Fund put 13.3 billion in its rescue, with only 2.4% of the shares in the end, unlike the markets, i.e. foreign loan sharks, who put 4,9 billion to receive 97.6% of the shares in this systemic bank. This is a robbery against the Greek public, a crime against Greek citizens. And what SYRIZA says 'negotiation', we call it national treason. Of course, there are criminal responsibilities for this criminal policy, which must be attributed to those who have led Greece to the present dreadful situation, taking a overwhelming "no" of the Greeks into the Memorandum, destroying the Greek Constitution, destroying the result of a referendum and leading the country to the present tragic situation. We have now come to talk about confiscations of EUR 1,000 and pensions of citizens' debts to the public. We've reached a point of unscrupulous misery. Even the uniforms, who go to the service, must pay the price for public transport. The policeman who goes to serve the citizen must pay a ticket to get on the bus with Pakistani and Afghans, at the same time as Parliament's MPs are still getting traffic allowances, at the same time that the parties are being subsidised at EUR 50 million a year. What budget do we need to talk about when the Greeks fall and even the parties are even being financed today, except Golden Dawn, of course, which does not take a public franc, proving that the funding of the parties is a scandal that does not need. There is no need for parties to take a single euro when Greek citizens literally experience tolerance. Today there are strikes, some gatherings of protest and marches to Athens and other cities. And co-government calls on citizens to protest against the memorandum. We've arrived, we've crossed the limits of political schizophrenia. Dear Alexis Tsipras and his paramedics sell madness, calling on citizens to protest against their own criminal policy. It is no coincidence, therefore, that at the SYRIZA Youth Festival, they said to liberate the use of hashish, to burn the minds of citizens and youth and to swallow the spoon that this criminal, abominable conflict of the new memorandum is feeding them. The next stage in your policy - against Greece, of course - after you have destroyed all the productive structures of the country, after the backbone of our economy has been economically destroyed, i.e. the small Greek businessman and the worker, the next stage is the return to the international turtle of the Greek energy deposits, which could form the basis for the blooming of the Greek economy, the basis for the geopolitical upgrading of Greece. For Greece to become what must be, that is, a sovereign power in the Eastern Mediterranean. The European Council's infamous Tusk then, that night Tsipras threw the signatures for the sale of Greece, said shortly before these betrayal signatures fell: "Sign up, why is the Eurozone being destroyed, the European Union being destroyed." So Tsipras signed, choosing the destruction of Greece, instead of the destruction of a tachyphic system which has enslaved the European peoples. The European Commission, this anti-Greek construction, through a Finnish Commissioner - has put all the unlikely states of the various states in the European North to give us misinterpretations - has come to say that it will throw Greece out of Schengen. It reached the point of saying that FRONTEX will guard the Greek borders, as if we were here no protectorate and we are not a nationally independent state. And he also offended the Greeks, saying that Greece's borders remind us of Swiss cheese. And the Europeans are threatening us. They are not threats, however, to the Greek people. It is a threat that we are experiencing today by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It is the attempt to transform the Greeks into a minority within our own country. Of course, neither the one controlled by the German oligarchy Prime Minister nor the notorious Abrahamopoulos, the European Commissioner, say a word. Sooner or later, they sit sous against their bosses. To remember here the example of Dobrovski, who had come here to the House and told him that he was an economic criminal who has murdered Greek citizens. And after the Golden Dawn said that, all systemic parties came together and apologized. They apologized to those who have destroyed Greece. Three billion euros gives Turkey the unwilling European Union, three million immigrants it gives Greece. Three million smuggled refugees. The Aegean will become very soon and officially 'grey zone'. He reached the point where he was presenting the Prime Minister of Greece to erase his posts from the Internet when Davoglou brought him a hint. We are not just a protectorate of economic criminals Europeans, we are a protectorate of a new Ottoman Empire. This is the anticipation of Greece today. NATO Secretary appear in public and says that the violations by Turks are not the same, if they do against Greece, in relation to what the Russians have done in Turkey, proving to what a terrible point our country's foreign policy has reached. Fortunately - I close with this - the plight in the whole situation is that the current coup d'état of the Memorandum collapses, as the previous ones have collapsed. It seeks corporations, of course, to a number of excerpts, which have been imposed on the public life of the country by the pimps of the canals. But there is no prospect of any Memorandum System in this country. Already the other juncture of the Memorandum, New Democracy, which voted for all the Memorandum measures in August and is now assembling for vote, and it is being destroyed, and it is being dismantled. Very soon all these political developments, all these national betrayals...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u30	Finish, Mr. Cassier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u31	...which have taken place at the expense of Greece will receive an end and will rise the Golden Dawn of Hellenism that we envision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u32	On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr Mustafa Mustafa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to make a few points in the debate on the 2016 budget. I consider the criticism by colleagues from the opposition, particularly those from the parties who have been ruling our country for forty years, very unfair, vengeful, zero-fixing, wild beauty, but not convincing and without substance. We all know that a budget is not drawn up in the air, exclusively and out for one year, for example for 2016, but is based on the state's previous budgets. It is, in fact, based on the economic situation today. And it's a projection for the next budgets. I don't want to make a description of the situation now. All this has been described by all the speakers: GDP, debt, unemployment, recession, and so on. We are developing the view of the colleagues of the former government parties that we were in nothing but five to get out of the crisis, that everything was going well and nice and that SYRIZA's party, SYRIZA's evil party, SYRIZA's populist SYRIZA, irresponsible, lies and false promises, has broken it down, threw the country in Tartara, and that is responsible for all the sufferings of our country and people. I think that this does not convince, explain, analyse the causes of the deadlocks that led our country and our people. The lack of self-criticism, the failure to admit errors all over this forty-five years makes your criticism truly meaningless, without any substantial contribution, but only collisional. From your words, it comes to the conclusion that you are the right, the good, the right, and that SYRIZA is a mistake in history, something abnormal, something unexpected, something like an abortion, like a ghost. I, who have participated in the 40-year-old post-government history of my country and of my political space, understood that in recent years this system that has been built has gone too far. It wasn't going anymore. Society understood that too many opportunities have been lost, too many resources have been wasted, a bad regime has been structured, many opportunities have left through our hands to exploit to strengthen our society and have been led to the deadlock. Great wounds have been opened in the body of our society and in the souls of our people. Our society feels that it will be the price of recovery, recovery, refreshment. That is why we had this rapid development of SYRIZA, these results in the 2015 inter-elections. It is up to us to be able to meet the demands of the times and to get rid of the circumstances. To describe and outline the problems of society, the demands and expectations of society in my region from the budget that we are discussing, I quote two - three topical issues, two - three reports, which also raise the agenda for our action and government action. The complaint that was made a habit. ELME Rhodope for another year was found in the Komotini Judicial House, to file with the prosecutor a complaint about the loopholes in secondary education schools. It's not today's phenomenon. It is now two, three, four years that ELME is trying to highlight the issue of early appointment of teachers in secondary education. There are still similar problems in primary education. A large meeting was held at the Komotini Hospital on serious subsistence and subsistence problems and a rally was decided on 16-12-2015. The shortcomings in hospitals are known, but the titanic effort made by our Government to keep public health upright is also known. Yesterday, a press conference of ENCLO employees was held on the reopening of the closed workshops in Komotini and Naoussa, with an operational plan with a company scheme designed by themselves in the case. Farmers are finally waiting for their subsidies. Of course, rather than a foot is for their timely payment. I could list similar situations, similar initiatives and moves, which put our tasks on the table, the tasks of the Government to overcome the difficulties, so that there can be a prospect for our society and our country. Because yesterday, my dear fellow Member, has been severely criticised by the government for its policy in Thrace and for the minority, I would like to point out that at the moment our priority is to keep our society up, our country, to overcome the deadlocks, to get out of the clear, to support the tested social groups and all the problems, the weights from the past will find their solution with dialogue, with consensus and wisdom. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You know, because it is also on the agenda for Thrace, a number of projects have been carried out several times. We did have politicians in the central political scene of the country from Thrace and from both parties - and my colleague was a major member of the New Democracy - but we have remained in the last regions of the country and Europe. We have a duty at this particular difficult time with this budget to raise the pace for the growth of our region and our country upwards. That's what we're gonna try, that's why we're gonna fight. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Mavroudis Vorides has the floor. Until my colleague comes to Stepa, I should like to say that, because I see that during my Presidency it is my turn to speak and it is not possible, I self-determination for today and, if possible, I will speak tomorrow. I'm just saying, don't think tomorrow I'm taking the turn of a colleague. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because I know that the Minister is deeply fond of legal matters, even though we have the budget debate, he goes back to one of the most interesting discussions in the area of the philosophy of law, namely criminal law, and that is in the theory of punishment. One of the theories says that the penalty, which is insulting evil for some evil act you've done, is one of her theoretical foundations is recompense. You're indulging evil about a bad thing that's happened. The budget presented by the SYRIZA Government and invites you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on it is the injurious evil you have done for what you have done. It is the nemesis, which comes with this budget for what SYRIZA did and what he said in the earlier period. For how else should it be taken, when, for example, from the announcement of the thirteenth pension, for which you were very happy, are you now legislating with this budget to cut pensions of 1.5 billion? How else should it be taken, when, for example, you, who strongly resisted even the idea of privatisation, have already legislated and moved on to privatization of the OLAF and are preparing hearings to legislate on the privatisation of IPTO? How else can it be taken when you announced in the context of development policies - Mr Tsakalotos has been very strongly defended - are you tabling a budget that is restrictive? The truth is that for us it is one of the great joys to see you in this situation. It is a kind of recompense for what we have been through five years, for what we have heard from you, for what you have been supporting over the years, for you to drag on today to support this budget as left-wing governance, for us to hear today Mr Tsakalotos - I remember him from the mountains - to call on the virtues of the social economy, which obviously does not exist throughout the budget, to call against restrictive policies, to speak against the recapitalisation of the banks. It's the truth of some justice, a reward, and I imagine the best things are coming. But beyond this theory of return and the penalty you deserve and which you are serving, I was told - it is true - some of my friends who are fond of strategic approaches to politics, told me: “Why are you worried? Why don't you want the Left to rule? Let them do it. Let them do it. Let them see it, live it, live it and the Greek people draw their conclusions from this rule of the Left. Why don't you leave them?' I said that I do not leave them because the place will be destroyed - I try not to leave them - but, in any case, the dialectics of things require this type of approach. But is there hope in this budget, Mr Chakaloto? Because I am going to say this: in relation to the financial adjustment you are making, I am the last person to be able to make good on this. You have to, but you're doing it right? And, above all, fiscal adjustment makes sense, when it comes to a hope, a future, a direction, a prospect. For example, because I imagine that this is what we have agreed on, I hear recently bugs about investments. You are interested in investment, private investment, what brings the well-known bad capitalist capital. We know that, but that's what we're talking about and you're interested in. But how, for example, will these investments be done when we read about the revenues of a state-owned company called TRAINOSE, which has returned to profitability? I read Ziliaskopoulos' phone - he is the CEO of the company - with EWLET ACKARD trying to explain why the trains of the Greek transport company have stopped at the border with Skopje, interrupting the smooth flow of American multinational products from Asia to Piraeus and from there in Central Europe. The same number, corresponding to the ‘DB CHENKER’, a subsidiary of EUTSCHE ANK’ in logistics, which runs dozens of trains every month from Greece to Europe and vice versa. The same irritation has dozens of foreign businesses. Why? Because this is undoing what we said we would do and have all agreed in the Chamber, that Greece is a transit centre. And why does he do that? Because the government cannot deal with the refugee crisis. Because he can't control the flow. Because she doesn't have a way to make people stacked at these closed borders. And the train was interrupted and the train was interrupted for that reason. Is that how you're gonna bring the investments? And that's all? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u36	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u37	And that's all it was? Last week, one of the previous weeks, a few weeks ago, a container ship with products of HUAWEI, which has installed a European distribution centre in Greece, waited for days to finish the pilots and seafarers strike in order to unload containers. Is that how you're gonna bring the investments? What's the perspective? You can not bring anyone, but then, Mr Barkas, you will have to answer why you will be making the new cut cycle. Why, you're gonna cut off the pensions? Why, are you going to be forced to lower the wages? Why, in the end, will the country not recover? Because if we have agreed here that we no longer believe in these public investments announced by Mr Chakalotos, whoever wants to talk about public investment, can look at the budget, which is precisely the same budget as last year and before and over again at the level of public investment. If we do not expect growth from public investment - which we do not expect, we agree that we do not expect it from there, so the budget you are going to vote on is what you will be voting on - then you must bring it from private investment. And private investments don't come that way. Why, if you do not bring growth - which does not come with this budget that you are voting on, for all that you are doing and which you are approving here - then you are, in fact, bound to make budgetary adjustment. So, here, where are we and because the subject of consensus is also raised, what exactly are you asking for? The privatizations? We gave it to you. Financial adjustment? We agree on the principle. What exactly are you asking for consent to? The banks' recapitalisation? We gave it to you. However, if you are asking for the consent to be undermined by the private sector, to extort it, to break the only investment and development vehicle we have and then to have the same debate and circle again, then I think you should look elsewhere in the Chamber, if you find anyone, because I fear that you will be on your own. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Department of the 5th High School of Alimos. The House welcomes them. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And since we are all talking about the exhibitions on which they are toured, I would like to say: I like to read the files and I have seen that the House has never made a press release to honor John Kapodistrias. And there's too much archive material in the House inside. I think it is time to discuss this one day at the Conference of Presidents, because I do not think it is right that Ioannis Kapodistrias should not be honoured. Let's go to the next speaker. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Antonios Syrgos. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor and you will also have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start pianoing and see. Because in the past a lot of cress in this Chamber has been heard. The budget is the main example of each government's policy. It is the torso, since the conditions for the exercise of a development policy that wants to have a social character and relieve the population who suffer and have been affected by the crisis must also be based on other issues, on other bases which are parallel. What are these, that is, the sizes which they define, even though they are not economic - most importantly they are political - the economic issues? Such a size is the geopolitical environment in which an economy lives and works. Another is political stability, which acts beneficially in the economy and, finally, a third key is the existence of a minimum social consensus around strategic issues as a result of a broad dialogue or, at least, the conduct of such a dialogue. It is obvious and it is demonstrated daily by the general practice of government policy that all of this has been taken into account by the government within the very short time it is running, that is to say, not even a year. Not forty years or twenty or five. For opposition, of course, one year is - it seems - very long to alleviate ruins and correct errors in multi-annual political choices. It is a long, long time, to make everything that has not even been done in recent years, in which unfortunately the only policy that has been pursued has been either easy to take material measures or, where it has been difficult, postponement, revoking itself as the highest policy in the absence of someone else in the popular verb "seeing and doing", postponement of the maximum political refuge from ancient times. And “the second rider” asked for Strepsiadis to be taught. And the second one, so! The policy of everything, and the strong subsequent criticism of the government of today, which, with difficult and delicate manoeuvres, has attempted to settle in the most appropriate way and the most urgent way, incomplete and chronic problems. This government, in which we have taken a vote of confidence some time ago, dealing carefully with the refugee issue and issues that are defined by our geopolitical environment, balanced - and it is a difficult balance - between humanism and security. It is moving towards full economic stability with the political stability it has already established with its presence at the steering wheel of the country when - as we know - it is today the only solid and upright political force in relation to the rest - not all - that is, of course - which are stirred by internal political and ideological crises and divisions. It seeks a minimum consensus of society through the dialogue of the sincere and is the only one who has the opportunity to take serious initiatives in this direction. In this sense, it is wrong for those who have rushed to criticise the Prime Minister's initiative to convene the board of political leaders, which could lead not to universal governments or confrontations, as some have perhaps hoped in vain, but to launch a sincere dialogue. A broad majority of what is now judged to be disastrous and cursed was passed in August. Let someone look at the texts of the laws and find out. It is very recent that the texts are detailed. What was then voted in favour of as imposed and pro-European, as a part of 'give it any agreement', is now being rejected as disastrous. Schizophrenic political perception? Contradictory trends and ambiguous attitudes? Wrong text readings? Anyway! In any case, I would remind you of some magical words that have become part of our recent political and economic history: Selling OF, PSI, haircut, confessions, Zappeion, 'SIEMENS', lists and others. In conclusion, I am enough to mention a phrase that describes - I believe - the nature of the budget this year which we are calling on to discuss. ‘The preparation of the budget for the following financial year shall be based on conservative estimates. This is because it is not fully taken into account the start of a virtuous cycle in the economy from the successful outcome of three interrelated procedures which constitute the government's short-term roadmap for final exit.’ Ladies and gentlemen, we must consider how we are going. The government has taken account of it. Let's get to it, everybody else. The moment is crucial. And by addressing the government, I would like to remind you that the Greek people are a people who have been through boots, they have been through terrible situations, they have been in very dangerous places in their history and have gone beyond them. One thing he couldn't stand either: he wants justice. Her lack of drugs. So conduct investigations, check the lists, act responsibly on justice. It is only that it can counteract the difficulties and financial pressure or at least soothes it. Others did not do it rightly. We have to do it. History will judge us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u40	Me too, Mr. Syrigos. On behalf of the Democratic Assent, Mr Jélélez Michael will speak. Mrs Aylonitou, Mr Kumoutsakos, Mr Tassos and Mr Katsikis, that is about half an hour, will follow, and then Mrs Jakri will speak. You have the floor, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, is it gratifying to see your memorial mutation? Is it gratifying to see your obsession policy and much more today, which fear has nestled on every Greek family, who have been overthrown to a personal and reasonable level all the certainties? No, it's not satisfaction. It is no satisfaction, because it is no longer time for any kind of conventional, old-fashioned party controversy. Unfortunately, however, you have promised a lot, you said a lot, and the Greek people remember. Everyone remembers in this Chamber too. In the program statements of the "first time" Left, with a little nationalist right ANEL, the Prime Minister said that "I am sure our government will remain in collective memory as the government that kept the word". Tell me one. With the 2016 budget that we are debating here today, unfortunately, it is like seeing a surreal tragedy in which the figures - because we are talking about numbers, we are not talking about blatant words and pre-election promises and reasons - reverse the importance of your election words and programmes. You were talking about ending austerity. What are we living today? The economic suffocation further. Instead of defending wages, redundancies in the private sector are increasing. Really - I'm going to say it very popular - how much do you want to drive us crazy? I heard here yesterday calling from the Step of the House for workers to participate in today's mobilisation to claim, because, he says, we did not vote for the anti-gaut laws, because we, he says, have nothing to do with it. Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen of the League, that you are a government? Take them down. Here's Rhodes, behold, and jump, as your Chief said. Do you want me to tell you something? You have an originality in your parliamentary group. You also have MPs in government administration posts who have implemented these laws that have abolished collective agreements that have abolished post-election. When we voted against them from this Step and we were deleted, we defended the workers, they hid them then, they applied them, they passed Siloam's political swimming pool through their transfer to SYRIZA. Can I tell you something else? You have the only Members who are privileged in this Chamber to have voted for all three memoranda and to have them implemented by two governments. What's the new issue, so I can understand? On the other hand, you were talking about rescuing pensions. Not only did you not give a third pension, but you also depleted their reserves, which I do not know when they will be given. And don't talk about the PSI. We hear it on a number of occasions. The cost of the PSI in the funds was 13.4 billion. Sixty billion in three years was government funding. Stop, finally, those flares that don't go anywhere. How much does the budget provide for pensions? Unfortunately for you, I told you, the numbers are relentless. Retirement cuts of 1.5 billion! You are talking about wealth, but without demarcating where wealth is and cutting the farmer's pension by the social measure. Listen, listen! The main factor of social policy is EOPY today, health provision. You increase the rate from 4% to 6% all, without exception, as regards the main pension and 6% in the subsidiary. We were abolished, says on one hand in the hospitals, and you took it on the other hand 50 euros from each Greek and every Greek citizen today in the country. At last, these unscrupulous policies have no sense in them. That is why I said from the outset that we need to agree on some basic points, so that we can really give the Greek people a vision that we can get out of the deadlock. And we have today and are dealing with Mr Tsipras' new type and a new model of consensus. Which says what? Now, in front of the deadlocks, I with an inadequate, anti-reform government formation will rule, I will dismantle the country, and you as subordinates will come here to find them, to give me a consensus, so that I can continue to rule. Hey, no! This, for our part, is not going to happen at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the Minister for Agriculture has said two days ago that he will have made the rights of farmers public and said to him that 'you are still lying'. Today is Thursday and they haven't been announced. I will say something to you, and I do not want to go out real: on Monday, which will wait to get the rights, we will have a popular explosion in the regions. And you know what messages you get from the Congress MPs when you go to your villages. The 2016 budget - and I close - shows that you do not have a national strategic plan, there is no political will and initiative out of the crisis. You can't give a solution. You are part and multiplier of the crisis. Your economic policy is characterized by only three words: instability, irresponsibility and inability. That is why I am voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u42	Refund these characterisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u43	It's okay, they're getting some blood. We're calming down now. My colleague Mrs Eleni from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a budget which is central to the future of the country. After five years of relapsing and ambiguous successive governments, supported by the parties that brought the crisis, we are now in a short, but difficult, path, relaunching the economy. In the five years that passed, successive governments were trying to answer the question of how to overcome the economic crisis without harming our strongest political clientele and lenders. The answer back then was horizontal austerity in serving an unsustainable debt. But, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis cannot be overcome without your sacred cows being affected. And the crisis cannot be overcome by serving a debt that is not sustainable. It can't be done! That's why you didn't make it. So don't expect us to follow your failed policy, and don't complain, because we don't repeat your mistakes. You are exemplified, when we succeed in recapitalising the banks, without harming the depositors, because the shareholders were affected by the reduction in the price of bank shares. You would have preferred to have saved the shareholders at all costs by charging the burden to depositors and taxpayers. If we were to delay the recapitalisation - which many would wish - we would burn the depositors to save the shareholders. If the state would again throw money to support the shareholders, it would raise the public debt, which would be borne by taxpayers. So we preferred to protect the weaker ones, which is of course annoying you. You, ladies and gentlemen, want the concept of an attempt to be without risk. You want the profits to business people and the damage to the state. But that's not how it works. Without risk, there is nothing but fraud. Of course, the markets have recognized that so many years of recession have swept away the banks' funds, so it's blown up this success story that you've been running away for so long. But the world's testimonies were saved. The citizens' deposits are fully secured. Ladies and gentlemen, we have publicly set two objectives to the Greek people: the recapitalisation of banks and, after the first assessment, the renegotiation of the debt. We have achieved the first objective and we are heading towards the second. The achievement of these two objectives leads the country to economic development and we go there. There we go now, there we go immediately, in the coming months, not once, somewhere, in the distant and undetermined future. To achieve these objectives, we have taken measures of austerity that we do not like. But it is the price to overcome the consequences of your own policies. In today's budget many costs are lower than we would like to see. Today, however, it can't be. It is important to complete the assessment of our second objective, namely the renegotiation of non-viable debt. Then, in conditions of economic development, the other problems will, of course, be tackled more easily. But even in these difficult circumstances, we put social priorities in place. Because, ladies and gentlemen, even a tight budget must be taken care of our weakest fellow citizens at this difficult time. We don't do horizontal cuts. We're making targeted moves. We are increasing the social budget by 823 million euros. Thus, measures such as the feeding coupon, the rental subsidy and the free electricity for weak households are further financed for the expansion of the programmes concerned. You had not even considered the need for such measures. So detached you are from the Greek society, from the middle Greek and middle Greek. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] We guarantee free movement for the unemployed, we increase health expenditure, which has, as you know, seen in previous years. We're on our way for the first time to sanitary recruitment. We ensure free access to hospitals and cover uninsured overages. At the same time, we are increasing the Public Investment Programme, because since this year our country has been able to go through development. What remains, of course, is your catastrophe, the deep recession scenarios, which are disgusting, the euro-exit scenarios, which are distorted, the imminent catastrophe scenarios, which have now become the signal of the positions of all systemic parties, your diffuse anger. Why are you angry, ladies and gentlemen? When we move to implement our programme, you are angry because we do not consult you to work out a national policy. When we invite you to a debate to reconcile a national policy, you are mad at why we invited you. In the end, your anger comes from the fact - and listen to this, ladies and gentlemen - that in one year you have lost three elections. As you can see, there is no prospect of coming back to the government, even after the end of the four-year period. If that's your problem, I'm afraid you'll wait long.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u45	Mrs. Alonitou, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. But we can't keep the country anymore, because you're angry. The SYRIZA Government - ANEL will move forward. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government will lead the country to economic growth in the coming months, with or without you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u47	I call to Step by New Democracy Mr Kumucako George. Until the honourable Member comes to Stepma, because it is very good what Mrs Alonitou said about the free movement of the unemployed, I would like to say that the law passed in Parliament is missing the free movement of mandates from 1-1-2016. I hope that the relevant ministers will hear what I say and see that it is corrected. Here, Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the anti-immemorandum conflict has tabled its Memorandum of Understanding, hard, anti-developmental, anti-social. His more secure evaluation, the truth about this budget lies in the faces of the majority ministers and colleagues, in the face of the Tsipra - Kammenos, Kammenos - Tsipras. It's in the faces of the protagonists you'll see the budget assessment. The reality of the Memorandum of Understanding is imprinted on their faces and on how they intervene in this debate. You just heard them. Only ten months later, the glow faded dramatically, until it disappeared. The enthusiasm of ignorance is vented. The momentum of tampering has passed. The previous absolute refusal of any understanding, of every good will, of every consensus, has now become a whisperer but a very agonizing request for assistance, a request for consensus and understanding. By who? From yesterday's Mercedes and Memorandum. I do not deceive you, ladies and gentlemen, nor should anyone, yesterday's aggression of the Prime Minister. It was a scream of agony. It's a scream of agony. And the hard stuff is ahead, they're coming. The help of the nearby events every day becomes clearer. I'm sure you're listening to her. You just want to ignore her. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, the monster of populism has this bad habit. It's in the nature of turning a little afterward against his creator. You are the creators of this monster and you will fight with him. Don't seek help from anyone. You two will fight. You guys are already fighting. From this populism that you've excruciated all these years, you won't get away, because he knows you, he knows you well. He knows your tricks. He knows your unspeakable targets, your lies and your weaknesses. The government is now, of course, confusing in a budget of recession, deficits, overtaxation, unemployment, internal postponing of payments, additional tough measures, social deficits, the expansion of public debt, the leftover of the banking system. But even more is sinking in false promises, polluting expectations, big words. He's been in populism for five years. She also looks at her big mistakes, her inability to deal with the big issues of the place. And it's not just the economy. And what's not an economy! Last yesterday and today's developments on a vital front for the country, the refugee problem, concern the economy, ladies and gentlemen. They're about the economy and they're hurting her in her heart. What is happening in Idomeni and the debate that has been opened - because as much as you may deny it, the debate has opened - for our possible isolation from the Schengen area is a major blow to the Greek economy. And do you know why the debate on our Schengen membership has started for at least two years? I will submit the document - the confidential document that leaked from it - to the international media. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Koumoutsaskos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know why this is happening? Because recently, twenty days ago, the Prime Minister - as I was able to tell him - made commitments to the refugee that exceeded the country's capabilities. They are thirty and twenty thousand refugees, a total of fifty thousand refugees. Five hot spots. Within two months he has undertaken to do so. Now that this obligation is not complied with, the debate has begun seriously and indeed a country-friendly Presidency, by the Luxembourg Presidency, to exclude the country from the Schengen area. They're already talking about a little Schengen girl who's gonna have us outside. And you know what that means? The influxes will remain open, due to the country's geopolitical position and because we have a very difficult neighbour, Turkey, and the outflows will be closed. Do you know what social and economic means to the country? The cost, Minister, for the refugees that the country pays through its budget, have you calculated it? Do you know that there is a very serious debate in Europe, that the costs of dealing with the refugee are not calculated in the public deficit and in public spending? There are statements by Mr. Juncker. What are you doing about it? Can we exclude the costs of the refugee from the public deficit? If we can and don't, it's a crime. If you don't know it's happening, you need to look at it today, in the next few hours. I'm not going to double-cross any more, and I'm not going to get any further for the refugee. We will see in the next few days the drama intensifies further. I do not want to become an angel of bad news, but all the real facts show the consequences, social and economic, will be enormous. The caravan is on its way, the Prime Minister said. Indeed, when the caravan started it was long. It started with a lot of people. People of all races followed the leader, who promised the promise’s commemorative land. Only step by step, the Promised Land - the promise of the Promised Land - went away, became reflective and finally a deceptive dream. Now, you're out of promises. In a few moments, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, the chief will come back to see his caravan and be alone because the caravan has broken down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Please come to Stepma, Mr. Tassos Stavros from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the'second time left' government, SYRIZA - ANEL, is a typical budget for a government that believes in the European Union, namely in the capitalist way of development. On the other hand, all parties in the urban spectrum feel that SYRIZA is taking the job, since he takes steps that they have not dared to take and, in return, criticized him for not applying any of his left-wing promises, as if they did not vote for the first, second and third memorandum, as if they did not believe in the European Union and the capitalist way of development. It is a budget that does not remove any of the anti-popular works of the first and second memorandum and adds another EUR 5.7 billion to the backs of the workers and the people. On the contrary, all other pro-capitalist measures do not affect any of the fifty-six shipowner tax exemptions. So the worst, most right up to now budget. It is a budget which has broadly the sign of the bourgeoisie and aims at the permanent objective of this class, defending and increasing the profitability of capital and not meeting social needs. I shall refer to two areas that glamorously reflect the logic of profitability: protection from natural disasters and renewable energy sources and the green economy. Recently, on 17 November, we had a catastrophic earthquake in Lefkada with two dead and a lot of serious damage to people's homes and public buildings, both in Lefkada and Vonitsa's Coast and in northern Kefalonia, once again highlighting the lack of anti-Semitism measures and even in an area considered to be the most anti-Semitism shielded. Since the floods of October this year four people died, while the Western Attica people once again paid the marble. It is clear here that the major deficiencies in infrastructure and flood protection and the non-preservation of what is present. Accordingly, last summer's fires, which took place in Athens, Laconia, Evia, Lesvos and elsewhere, highlighted once again the tragic shortages of staff, resources and resources in the Prevention and Management of forest fires. Will anyone ask: Is the current government responsible for the enormous shortages in dealing with natural disasters? Obviously not, but the current government, by continuing the policy of the previous governments, maintains the nakedness of the capitalist state, when it comes to the people's needs, the protection of the people's homes, cities and the wider environment. On the altar of fiscal adjustment, it maintains the tragic shortages of staff, even in the funds in the Services to prevent and tackle natural disasters. ‘Why?’ No one's gonna ask. It is quite simply because tackling natural disasters requires funds and long-term and central planning and this is outside the interests and logic of the European Union and the big capital, which makes its own business plan and seeks to return its investments immediately. For the JRC satisfying the social need for environmental protection, earthquakes, flooding and fire protection is a priority political issue, an issue that is based on scientific and technological knowledge, but from the standpoint of the unresolved firmness that wealth is produced by the working man and within the economy in it must return, solving his problems and contributing to the development of his life's science and technology. In this context, we are calling for damages to be immediately and fully recovered by state expenditure and for measures to be taken to support those affected in any case of natural disaster. Additional measures should be taken for the unemployed, the low and low pensioners affected. In particular, for anti-Semitism protection, we are calling for rapid visual control, this first check, 85% of some ninety thousand public buildings, which have been pending since the 1999 earthquake, and in particular for 30% of the buildings to be restored immediately, from the 15% already controlled and found that immediate intervention was needed. We are also calling for the restoration of buildings to be aimed at strengthening them and not only to return to the pre-equal situation. I now come to renewable energy sources and the green economy, where the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict and the capitalist state generally give it all. Why? The answer is obvious. Because they are areas of high profitability for capital, which is reflected in all environmental sessions, such as the one now being held in Paris. They do, he says, to protect the environment, thus trapping many well-meaning people and scientists, unfortunately, I would say. Who? Those who for the control of energy resources and their transport route do not hesitate to destroy the environment, to merchandise the pollutants, to dismantle countries, to blemish peoples, to provoke the drama of refugees and then shedding crocodile tears for their suffering and to set up centres for sorting what they need as cheap labour force. I say this because the'seven sisters', the seven multinational oil companies in their competition with nuclear energy, were and are one of the main donors to the renewable energy programmes. Protection of human life and dignity, protection of the environment, see 'VOLKSWAGEN', infrastructure for people's needs and European Union and capitalism are incompatible. This is because the capitalist way of developing is based on the exploitation of people and the environment, which in times of economic crisis and increased competition between major business groups is becoming more and more ferocious. Any protection which arises as a side-effect, always for profit and if profit is not sufficiently abandoned, or is a product of great pressure from the labour and popular movement, and has some duration only when this pressure continues, or is very quickly undone. We for these small, transient, even improvements, which will only result in a process of conflict and break-up with capital and not social consensus, will give all our strengths, as will all our forces to create the social alliance, which will lead the people to power, will make him householders in his place and the owner of the wealth that he produces with respect for the environment. It is therefore clear that we are also voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u51	Excellent, Mr. Tassos. Thank you for saving time too. The seventh cycle is closed with Mr. Katsikis Konstantinos, whom I call on the Step and with which we reach the number 80 on the list. The flow is good. Mrs Jack and Mr Sguridis will follow, and then the eighth cycle will be completed, with which we will reach the 92 and then two other ministers will speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a new Member I have been following from this Chamber for the first time, to which I have the honour and to place myself on the budget, but also on television. I am also concerned that a large majority of colleagues were put on the budget without saying anything about the content of this budget which we are debating today. I am concerned, because I have learned - because I come from local government - that when we discuss a budget, we analyse it mainly - politically and economically - with regard to its revenue and expenditure. I had learned when we debated a budget, even in the political part that concerns it, to analyse it politically on the basis of figures - either at the level of expenditure or at the level of revenue - that which contributes in the form of a provision of this budget to support expenditure through revenue that must be caused. I have also learned that the success of a budget is due to its balance, whether the budgets will be assigned and implemented when we are called upon to discuss the next budget. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, I hear about jihadists, about FRONTEX, about Russia, about Turkey and, in general, about things that really have nothing to do with the budget, no matter how much we try to give political time, including our positions in the budget debate area. Of course, I hear fellow Members who neither very much nor very much vote against the budget, while they had voted for the agreement in the summer. In other words, I am voting for an agreement, the conclusion of which has been reached with the elements contained in the budget today, but I am voting against the budget. Here, therefore, is what has been said against thecoron in this Chamber: 'I am voting and voting'. Of course, it has not been said by SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. Before entering the essential points of my speech on the budget, let me finish and close this prologue and parentheses with the 'first time left'. With regard to this 'first time left', let me add - if this is the first time left - the first time left along with the right-wing patriotic movement of the Independent Greeks. So if we want to say 'first time left', let us say 'first time left along with the right-wing Greeks'. I would also like to remind you that this is not the first time that there is left-wing cooperation with the right, because I think it started from the period of Constantine Mitsotakis and the late Charilaos Floraki and with the status of the left and with the PASOK and the government of Mr Samaras. Ladies and gentlemen, by entering the figures I have gathered for the 2016 budget, I would like to begin by providing a surplus of 0.5% of Gross National Product at the level of the general government. The reduced budgetary targets, both for 2016 and for the coming years, reflect the government's success in negotiating with lenders. The amount to be saved for the State funds from the new measures is estimated at EUR 5.7 billion for the period 2015-2016. Indeed, following the forthcoming restructuring of the debt portfolio, it is expected to further improve its characteristics and average maturity. This will allow the exit to the markets within 2016. Total tax revenues will reach EUR 44,766 billion in 2016 from EUR 42,762 billion this year, i.e. in 2015, without calculating the extra revenues from the fight against tax evasion. Improving the forecasts for 2016 gave a small budget area which, firstly, allowed the reduction of the burden of budgetary intervention by about 500 million. This means that the state will get 500 million less from the private economy. Secondly, the increase in appropriations for hospitals by another 150 million, more than 150 million provided by the preliminary draft. This means that hospitals will be financed with 300 million more than last year's budget. Thirdly, the increase in tax refunds by 180 million, limiting the state's dues to the citizens. As rapporteur for the Independent Greeks in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, let me refer to the reductions of 500 million in defence in 2016, which the Ministry's budget provides for. The Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr. Panos Kammenos has stated that money will come from 2016 and from the use of the assets of the Armed Forces. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the grounds of the decision of the Council of State on their cuts, the Minister of National Defence has made his election commitment and a promise to return the money cut by the previous governments, as the money has been budgeted. And we're waiting for the process to be completed by the Treasury to be repaid and reimbursed to the trustees. Then let me - and I finish, Mr President - stress that we have gone to a new recapitalisation because the previous ones, which were the result of the previous governments, have unfortunately failed. The number of red loans increased over the days of previous governments. From the 13 billion in 2008 and 22 billion in 2009, they reached 78 billion consumer, housing and business in December 2014. I mean, we had a 53 billion increase. The Greek people must know that. It should also be noted that the recession in the years of the memorandum evolved as follows: in 2010 it reached 5.4%, in 2011 at 8.9%, in 2012 at 6.6%, in 2013 at 3.9% and in 2014 there was a slight growth of 0.8%. Since 2010 GDP has fallen from EUR 226 billion to EUR 179 billion in 2014. At the same time, the unemployed of six hundred four thousand in April 2010 rose within the five-year reference period to one million three hundred forty thousand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u53	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade, and please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u54	With the unprecedented economic sacrifices of the Greeks, which brought tectonic changes to the Greek political system, the Greek economy managed to reduce its budget deficit from 15.6% of GDP in 2009 to 3.5% in 2014. But the same did not happen with the debt. The public debt from 126.8% of GDP in 2009 increased to 146% of GDP in 2010, to 171.3% of GDP in 2011, to 156,9% in 2012 - despite the PSI at that time - and last year it closed to 177,1% of GDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Colleague, you have to close!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u56	I'll be right back, Mr. President. On the basis of international analyses, the restructuring of existing public debt is imperative and necessary. However, the most important thing is that all our creditors are accepted. The restructuring has a significant positive impact on public debt service costs, while at the same time it promotes greater capital gains of the public-public companies. This is because the given valuation model, to calculate the present value, takes into account the current returns of Greeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Katsiki, I'm sorry, but you've been over time for three minutes. I can't leave you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, to conclude, I say that we will vote for the budget because our own government will be able to stabilise the Greek economy through the implementation of this budget. And I call on colleagues to do the same. Thank you and excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. I'll give the floor to the Minister, Mr. Jack. Mr Sguridis, an old colleague, knowing the badness of the Members when we discuss the budget, told me after Mrs Jackson to talk to five colleagues and then to him. You have the floor, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first budget tabled by this government. But be sure that many others will follow. The Major Opposition proved to be a political deafening of history. That was, after all, already in 2012. The same people who now devour each other were knocking their backs on each other in the past, sitting on the chairs of power. As for the Elassonian Opposition, it is also found either attached to archaic ideas or deeply divided, because rivers without sources of ideas and values cannot exist. SYRIZA has clearly an important political advantage today: to turn his attention to the economy and the creative forces of the country and to do what no political power has done seriously over the past decades. Reconstruction of the country's production base and economic growth must be the first issue for the economy and society in the years to come, so that we can get out of the crisis and increase employment. Our industry policy aims to create high value added products through collaborative schemes, business value chains that will exploit technological innovations, use digital technology and employ the high level of human and scientific potential available to our country. In short, I should like to refer to the actions that we have already begun: Our first priority is to improve the entrepreneurial environment. We are working on the real implementation of the n. As regards the simplification of the authorisation procedure, which until recently remained on paper. The necessary amendments to improve the functionality of the law are already being considered, and the Project Management Interministerial Group has been set up and operated with specific steps being taken, with a specific timetable. In this first cycle, simplification aims at the areas of food and beverage processing, sanitary shops, tourism and external activities, which account for 30% of the activities covered by the law. This reform will be completed by the end of June 2016. Based on the schedule and in cooperation with the World Bank, our technical consultant, simplifying the licensing for the entire economic activity will be supplemented by the end of 2018. The development of an appropriate information system, i.e. a digital platform for the provision of electronic licensing services, is also being prepared. At the same time, on the basis of this experience, we are immediately considering a national simplification programme relating to industry and the supply chain in general. Our second priority is the relaunching of temporary industrial facilities. We are already in constant and intensive contact with regional selfgovernment and with the banks. Our aim is to identify industrial facilities in which their owner has legally been alienated from this activity and which, at the same time, have valuable building and engineering equipment so that they can be reinitiated immediately. Emphasis is placed on dynamic industries and businesses located in organised receptors, i.e. industrial, regions and industrial parks. Recording and evaluation are already under way. For each industry to be selected, a specific private information file will be created with the main eco-technologies elements of each and will be presented as a whole to potential investors. Our next priority is to promote investments in the processing and logistics chain through the NRP. We already have a ready proposal within the framework of the ENPANEC programme, which includes 13 programmes, which I shall briefly mention. First programme: 'Efficient Processing'. This programme is intended to provide incentives to modernise engineering equipment and to radically upgrade the products produced by industries through the introduction and use of new technologies and innovative solutions. This includes aid for digital upgrading of the production base and aid to small and medium-sized enterprises to introduce effective energy solutions. Second programme: Entrepreneurship and Entrepreneurship:............................................................................................................................................................... It is a social and entrepreneurial programme. It concerns human resources with high skills and accumulated experience, which has lost its job and will have the opportunity to create its own business. ‘Innovative Entrepreneurship’: This is an integrated intervention to strengthen natural persons and enterprises that seek to transform a good and innovative idea into a sustainable enterprise, with an emphasis on entrepreneurial innovation. "Association of chains of added value - Cooperative Cooperatives and Networks": Main programme of our strategy, with a strong regional dimension, exploiting our comparative productive advantages: Here we will include collaborative patterns even of an emblematic nature, the value chain that starts from cotton and reaches up to clothing and ready-made clothing, the shipping club, as well as collaborative patterns in the field of food and beverage processing, in the tourism sector and its marriage with food and much more. The program: “Aid for Competitiveness and Extroverty of Creative Industry”: It is a dual nature program aimed at upgrading and exploiting productive sectors of the economy with high added value - such as clothing and footwear, silversmithing, furniture - as well as strengthening emerging, modern economic sectors with a strong outward orientation, such as the spectacle industry and modern audiovisual media, digital entertainment instruments, cultural industry and others. ‘Environmental Industry Aid’: The programme aims to create a framework and provide incentives for the business exploitation of third-party waste and waste through the production and disposal of raw materials and intermediate or final products and services of high added value. Green Productive Procedure: The programme provides a permanent and permanent flexible framework for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will enable them to intervene in their production process in order to reduce their environmental footprint. "Extroverty - Internationalisation of Enterprises": Through the program, integrated project promotion and promotion of products on foreign markets, such as participations in sectoral exhibitions, product certifications and accreditations, studies on the approach of difficult, specialised and aggressive markets, and so on. "Intellectual Property Competitiveness": Strengthening the capacities of small and micro-enterprises where intensified and knowledge investment is needed. ‘Development of Local Business Parks for Processing and Supply Chain’:. Creation and strengthening of necessary industrial infrastructure at local level, which support entrepreneurship and create economies of scale. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] ‘Information on informal industrial mergers’ means the creation of organised receptors where atypical industrial concentrations exist. Already the Ministry has launched the procedures to proclaim the informal industrial concentration of the Vineyards in a business resolution park "Strengthening Operations in Business Park": Motivation is provided for relocation to organised receptors. ‘Reuse of Old Industrial Buildings’:. The programme concerns integrated intervention to relaunch the use of industrial infrastructure which is now inertial, as I have already said. These programmes will be consulted in the next few days on the website of the General Secretariat of Industry. In addition, we are stepping up the ‘StartupGreece’ web platform, which supports new-born enterprises. The platform will be actively upgraded to include modern information and service tools in business creation, while incorporating all the simplification of the institutional framework. At the same time, we are promoting the creation of an alternative national mechanism for the public funding of extroverted innovative activity. This is a ‘jump start’, as it is said, with new tools that will speed up the process of developing the ecosystem of innovation and new entrepreneurial entrepreneurship. We propose, in other words, the creation of a startups ecosystem accelerator...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u61	Madam Minister, at nine minutes you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u62	In nine and a half minutes, Mr President. Let's negotiate this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u63	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u64	...that is, an open, transparent and impregnable pilot mechanism that will exploit innovative online techniques, such as crowdsourcing and innovation dipole, for the business assessment of ideas from the open public and the business market. It will be based on the participatory assessment, the creation of an innovation resource market and all the effort is based on the ‘Greek Start up Manifesto’. This mechanism will be developed as part of the "StartupGreece", the website I mentioned before. Our priority is, at the same time, the logistics sector. The supply chain sector can quickly bring investments and create new jobs, due to our country's geographical location and its upgrading to a transit centre, the security that our accession to the European Union and our human resources offer. That is why we are directly energising the national logistics board and then proceed to the necessary secondary legislation to implement the n. Date of birth: 4302/2014. In addition, the existing framework for the creation of freight parks is already being drawn up. The seventh axis of actions relates to the supervisory and control system. In 2006, the Ministry of Finance will undergo a reform of the system of market surveillance for industrial products. I would also like to mention that the General Secretariat of Industry already has...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u65	Finish it, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u66	The Members must also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, this is the last action I will mention and I shall close. It is therefore concerned with the initiative already taken to create the shipping club, which is geared to processing and related activities. The processing area around shipping can be one of the key pillars of productive reconstruction and development. The club will make use of specialized scientific and technical human resources, will create new jobs and incomes, while at the same time contributing to the extroversion and international expansion of all relevant activities. We are already in cooperation with Piraeus actors, such as the EBRD, and the procedures for the creation of the Cluster are already in progress. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA today has the ability to radically change the image...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u68	Madam Minister, I beg your pardon, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u69	Mrs. Jackie, you've been talking 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I will close in a nice way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u71	I'm so sorry. I've shown a tolerance of four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u72	Three minutes you've shown.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u73	You had seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u74	And without a vacation, it would be two and a half. Don't take care of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u75	Good. Finish it, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u76	SYRIZA today has the ability to radically change the image of the country's production base. It has the potential to make the Greek economy a machine for producing wealth and prosperity for the Greek citizen again. It is now clear that the country's position in the European Union and our dignity as a nation as a whole passes through the upgrading of our productive base. In the course of adjustment we have not only lost a few units from our GDP, nor has unemployment increased, but we have lost all as part of our national sovereignty. This domination will return when our factory doors open again, when Greek citizens as a whole can wake up in the morning and go to work. This is the modern national battle, which we will have to win day after day. The 2016 budget submitted by the Government shall go towards this objective. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of him, and I invite you to move forward, to close this chapter for our national history. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u77	We'll vote with hands and feet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u78	Ms. Jackie, don't thank me, just like no other President-in-Office. It is on the President's order and a unanimous decision of all the Vice-Presidents. We will show a tolerance, as we show colleagues, but if each minister is going to leave 50% of his time, what we have won so far and have spoken eighty colleagues, we will lose it by Saturday night. We all know that since Saturday at noon, it is rather a dead time for colleagues because of the speech made by the Heads of State or Government, and so on. After thanking Mr Sguridis again, we are entering a host of colleagues from the twelveth cycle, and then Mr Sguridis will speak, who has given up his position. They will speak: Mr. Rizoulis, Mr. Yoyakas, Mr. Thivaeus, Mr. Ilioopoulos, Mr. Pratsolis and Mr. Giakoumatos. Mr. Rizzouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is tabling the budget for 2016, which will be the year of recovery of the economy. The government's budget lays the foundations for the recovery of the economy in a framework of strategic budgetary targets in a social equilibrium regime. At the same time, there are areas of reform needed by the country, which have never been designed or left on paper without being implemented, so that the previous years are not dissatisfied with friends and different elites. The budget is essentially balanced and realistic, at the same time revealing its class share in favour of the weak. Its key is based on the balance between budgetary equilibrium and social justice. Specifically, the cost of social expenditure for 2016 is by EUR 813 million increased compared to 2015. Before I give some examples of the targeting of the budget, however, I would like to refer to the argument that has been developed in the past few days, but we also see it in committees often by the Members of Parliament, especially on the side of the New Democracy and PASOK, who are making their so-called self-criticism, say that in previous years there may be some mistakes, but the implementation of the agreements was in the right direction and the country was coming out of the crisis. Indeed, they are constantly repeating the phrase "the second time left", so that they can deceive the Left Government, the first or the second. Your mistakes or mistakes, ladies and gentlemen, have nothing to do with the last five years. And because the arithmetic is missing, I would like to ask: In what very series of governments of the New Democracy - PASOK or conflicts did labour relations fall apart? What exactly time did vocational education fall apart and teachers were fired? When were cleaners and school guards on the street, which her government for the first or second time restored? Reform, modernize the state on the bells. Of course, there was a sack of redundancies. In what series of governments have hundreds of thousands of businesses booked you? When did the tax-gun lists get lost? And if we go back, the turn of the first, second, or fifteenth times is gone. Remember the dismantling and dismantling of agricultural cooperatives, the ambiguity of the criminal responsibilities of the seashore industries? Shall we go back even further? Remember old submarines, sucker of depositors on the Stock Exchange? And if this series is started and we really put it in order, and we find out how many governments and the times you've destroyed and dissolved social cohesion and the economy, I don't think we're gonna end this. One speaker from PASOK said earlier, addressing us, that the Greek people remember. But your problem of PASOK - New Democracy is that the Greek people remember. That's the problem. Previously, the Greek people remember. You want to convince the Greek people that the Left Government failed and that you, apart from the mistakes you made, were in the right direction, and the only solution is to get back where you stopped. Keep up the good work to the benefit of both sides on the workers' back. I would like here to give a parentheses. My neighbor from Potami - he told the NRA yesterday and here yesterday - called on the government and the Prime Minister to resign if he cannot govern. Here I wonder - because we are from the same region - the minds of some of the other parties where it goes? Retire the government why? To possibly co-operate with a PASOK government, in which he estimates that in the past few years everything was done very well? And that's only where he's placed? The difference in this budget is found in the realisation of the budget, equilibrium with the increase in social costs, with the protection of the weak - even in the current difficult context of budgetary discipline - the allocation of funds for weak social groups of the population - which do not remain in the margin but are protected - for a decent living, EUR 62 million to provide social solidarity with uninsured over-ages, increased health expenditure by EUR 300 million, savings of costs from the renting of buildings hosted by public services, the ESDP, which aims to regenerate the Greek economy by creating and maintaining sustainable jobs, especially in young people. The left is tabling a concrete plan for exiting the crisis and restoring the economy. It restores the state, strengthens the social budget, saves resources from public waste and transfers them to the weak, so that inequality is shortened. It achieves social equilibrium and consensus, while aiming at a four-year plan, which, starting from 2016, aims to lead to forgotten social well-being, but based on solid foundations rather than on the culture of lending, but productive process. So we have seen a lot of things that we will be following together in the next few years from the same chairs, ladies and gentlemen, those of the Government majority for the second, third and fourth time left, which will restore the economy and modernise the state and from the anti-population, who call for their internal audience, unable even today to stand up to a fertile political reason and are unable to respond to their opposition role, just as they have consciously failed to carry out their government tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u80	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u81	Thesprotia MEP, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to be said about the first budget planned by the second time on the left. But it is worth taking advantage of the time given to me to say a few things about the so-called privileged field of convergence, social policy, because it concerns those of our fellow people who are tested by the recession due to the family situation, unemployment, health problems and others. There is no need to be an economist to see that the so-called'social budget' is problematic. A lot of numbers just don't come out. Some of his forecasts are rather wishful than realistic estimates. The government is talking about a 'left footprint' budget. However, I think it is about those fingerprints that will fade when they are rubbed with the harsh reality. What do you present as a 'left footprint'? The increase in the deficit - I would remind you - is a social budget of 823 million euros. And this is where the questions begin: What will finally fit into this amount? The increased half-billion costs of supplying goods and services from hospitals? The other EEA sickness benefits, which increase by EUR 350 million? The employment programmes, which will cost EUR 120 million more than in 2015? However, how do the extension of the minimum guaranteed income and the treatment of the humanitarian crisis and the privileged benefits fit? Why don't they tell us that the 200 million that they promised for each year, 2015 and 2016, for the humanitarian crisis, is actually half? From where will you find the money so that the minimum guaranteed income by the end of 2016 can cover those living in extreme poverty throughout the country? And how will the government do all this when it has committed itself to reviewing all social welfare benefits, to save some 870 million euros a year from them? And, if they are going to drop some of this money for the 2016 minimum guaranteed income, when are the rulings waiting to review social welfare benefits and benefits? Do they really mean it or will they still apply something that they do not agree with or - even worse - they cannot do so? In fact, as much as I wish to approach the reference to 'left footprint' as it is difficult for me, how much more than when there are hidden measures to save expenditure on insurance and social welfare, that is to say, when the interventions to the insurance amounting to EUR 1.4 billion for 2016 are recorded, while the government has committed itself to cuts of 1,8 billion, but also when a part of this 1,4 billion is not clear from where it will be found and when half of the grants of 2015 to hospitals and 1/3 of the grants to the multitude had been granted to them by the end of October. How, then, can one be optimistic that social policy will be strengthened when there are no documented and funded interventions? With fewer revenues, with the deficits of hospitals and EOPH being done in some magical way for 2016, is it sufficient to expect the increased revenues from health contributions to the main and supplementary pensions when, on the other hand, we will have a fall in insurance contributions and a rise in due amount? Ladies and gentlemen, even if we overlook all the previous objections, all the previous questions, can the government really speak of a 'left footprint' in the budget? I don't think so! What social policy does the second time speak about the left, since 3⁄4 of the expenditure cuts directly affect the incomes of our fellow citizens and even the weaker ones? Unless we say "left print" throwing a few crumbs into a pocket and grabbing the whole loaf on the other hand! I would remind you, in my turn: Reduction of main and supplementary pensions and reduction of one-off contributions, increase of contributions paid to the OGA, reduction of the beneficiaries of the EAFRD, reduction of the heating allowance to half, but also reduction of the predictive benefits of the social security institutions. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a social policy. It's not even a comfort to the sick. The government cannot speak of social policy without building the insurance system at the outset, so that the poorest elderly are incompatible with hunger pensions and young workers are not able to feed a black hole, without knowing whether, when and under which conditions, they will be retired. Judging by what I have been reading lately, the government has again been preparing to improvise with mediation solutions, since the Committee of Wise Men for their insurance seemed 'neo-liberal'. The government cannot talk about social policy when it plays delays to avoid the demoralization of the funds with cutbacks alone! Let us better tell us what it will do to bring foreign investment, to proceed with privatisation, to speed up the NSRP, to stimulate youth and innovative business, to encourage social cooperatives, who can provide care and care services to our patients and strengthen control mechanisms to limit uninsured work. Because 'left print' without investment and jobs is 'left fossil'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. My colleague from SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Thebeus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the first four-year budget, which marks the basic budgetary strategy of the government. It is a budget aimed at stabilising the economy and eliminating the production of deficits. Really, those who today are destroying, as I was hearing Mrs Bakoyannis last night, as what kind of budget would they like us to vote on? Like those who reached the deficit by 2009 to 15.2% and led the country to this humanitarian and economic crisis? Should we wait for an answer? Mr Vorides gave this reply a moment ago: 'Nemesi and punishment', he says, 'for the SYRIZA MPs who have reached the point that they have had to vote on this budget'. What can anyone say? Four times since 2013, the Greek people have punished New Democracy with a penalty of exclusion. So what else can be done to make, as he says, the strategic policy conclusions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u84	You'll go back to 4% where you were. That's where you're going. Talk about your party!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u85	Please don't interrupt! A little respect! I therefore stand in particular on the social dimension of the budget, which, for the first time since 2010, has increased health expenditure by providing for recruitment, strengthening supplies to hospitals and - most importantly - covering all uninsured people. As far as the area of education is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, public education has been subject to one of the greatest attacks these years. School specialities were abolished, thousands of colleagues were fired, an attempt was made to impose an immoral and hypocritical assessment aimed at redundancies. Today, the Left Government reinstated the dismissal colleagues, restored the abolished skills in PSAs, allowing more than tens of thousands of students to write in the sections of technological education that they wanted to attend this year. And they were children coming mainly from poor and people's families. The punishing and useless evaluation has been abolished and the dialogue for a democratic, plausible evaluation has been opened, with the aim of improving education and public school. After six years, thousands of appointments are scheduled in public schools. The treatment of poverty in schools with the quantum, covering over 11 000 pupils in primary education, is financed. And while the budget is admittedly too small - money is too little - and while the government opens, if you like, in the most democratic way public national and social dialogue on education, what does opposition say? Yesterday in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, he said: 'To open the dialogue, take back what you have voted on for education'! I mean, what? Should we fire the teachers again? What can we do? Do we have to abolish the Departments in the ESDP? Appraisal with the aim of dismissal? Do not hide behind the idealism of excellence! Have you ruined the world last year for what? For experimental and standard schools. So, ladies, do you know what? For 0.7% of our country's student potential! That's why. Channels, tables, interviews, MPs - chaos! I did not see you, colleagues, spoiling the world for 99.3% of public education. I didn't see it. Maximum hypocrisy and natural class selection for the chosen ones. Contempt and indifference for pupils, but mainly for 30% of pupils who go to vocational education. So is the percentage of pupils in the country attending vocational training. Your class choices do not hide, not only in education, but throughout the budget. In all places, if we see him, your opposition speech has to do with a class choice. It's all right, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that. You have four years to learn about development budgets, justice, social security and left seals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u86	Mr Iliopoulos Panagiotis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u87	To date we have all believed that the entire Greek people believed that the biggest crimes of the PASOK and New Democracy governments, which have been tying up these last forty years in our homeland, were the hatreds, were the placement of "nobles" in key positions, were thefts, were armaments, they were the mismanagement of public money and in general all that we either saw or knew they were happening underground. In the end, however, the most disgraceful crime of PASOK and of the New Democracy was that with their policies the Greek people have achieved so much to bring Tsipras into power with his tribulation, the greatest political fraud, the most loyal maniac of loan-to-knockers, the most dangerous haunted politician our country has known in recent years, over the past decades. On the other hand, the New Democracy has its responsibilities. People are so ridiculous - they have caused global laughter - because while they have a Tsipras toward them they cannot make a elementary, a typified opposition. And how do they do after they fall apart? These parties want to govern our homeland when they cannot manage their own parties' finances. They can't manage their microcosm. They're charged by 200 million euros and put each one on it. These people who have taken black bags with tens of millions, not only from Siemens, from Siemens, are what they have seen, what the Germans and we - parentheses - we have not even put them in the litigation, so that forty years have spent so many millions of years and continue to owe the banks, as if they were their own money, they want to govern us. SYRIZA brings rural space in the near future. She's scared of it. He's taking it just before the holidays, shortly after the holidays, but at some point he'll bring it. These are measures which will impoverish, end the small and medium-sized producers. Some say that primary production will also be reduced. It's not exactly like that. What's going to happen is they're going to accumulate large areas of nerds. They have already started to form bigguns throughout the country. Farmers cannot cope with these measures brought by governments, will be forced to give their farms for farms for farms and will be working themselves, workers of EUR 300 for ten and twelve hours, on their own farms. Those who were masters of their land, those who so many years of grandfather to pope their children and their families decently will be found slaves, slaves. Because you're a slave when you're in the field ten and twelve hours for 300 euros. This is going to happen, and it is going to happen very immediately. You don't need to be a Pythagoras or a familiar mathematician to understand that by reducing agricultural income, like the income of every production class, you automatically reduce and purchasing power. The farmer doesn't hide his money in lockers or send it abroad like you've been doing for years. He's going to buy food, he's going to buy first-demand items, and imagine the consequences that will exist by reducing this income. Local economies will collapse throughout Greece. Golden Dawn, of course, will be next to the farmers, undivided, not with the party labels of the KKE, the New Democracy, the PASOK, as all these years have tried to rob farmers and workers. The JRC, of course, is the forefront of these struggles, in order for them to be robbed and given the long hand of the system, the system's manure in all the struggles of the workers, farmers, farmers and all the Greeks who fight for their fairness. Free professionals. In fact, you who vote and write these laws have spoken to someone freelance, have you seen someone, have you asked him, have you heard his pain to see that he can't even cover his insurance contributions? Have you spoken to these people who are being destroyed? Of course, one firm is closing down after another, because they cannot in any way cope with the tax or insurance measures which you are always voting on and which you are applying. All these measures - now that I said 'apply' - are not going to be implemented in practice, because very simply the Greek people can no longer respond. Another important issue that has begun and emerged in this period - the minister responsible - was that some brain or, in fact, a brain has proposed that the police department should be closed down and that all of it should be concentrated in the cities. Of course, this man who has proposed and will be implemented since March does not know that areas of seventy and eighty miles away from the nearest police station cannot be controlled, cannot be adequately policed. They close police departments, close health centers that fail, and the Greek people in the region feel they are really at God's mercy, they can do nothing. And I close my speech with this: they ask me every day where our country goes and where we're going. With mathematical accuracy, then, we will be driven by a thousand kilometers on a wall. And what's going to stay? Absolutely nothing. The country is heading for a definitive dissolution. And I will say this - and I will close a phrase by Einstein: 'Doing the same thing all the time and waiting for another result is paranoia'. It is paranoia, therefore, that the Greek people also vote for the same people, the same parties that have destroyed him all these years and wait for a different result. Now everyone knows - and everyone bears his responsibility, little or bigger - that in our country there is a genuine folk nationalist movement that is ready to take over the fates of our country, is here, it is ready, it is the only hope for the rebirth and salvation of our country and has a name with two words: Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u88	My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Pratsolis Anastasios, and the sixteenth with Mr Yakoumato Geramis is closing. Then the Minister will take the floor, Mr. Sgurides. You have the floor, Mr Pratsol.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I am in the unpleasant position of succeeding in the Step one speaker whose party is against parliamentarianism, against democracy, but, on the basis of parliamentaryism, he is here today to speak and swear the whole political system. Let us look at this and be serious about this. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the top political act every year and, of course, it is the most important moment in parliamentaryism. Basically, the basis for the government's course is in place, and of course there is also a return to the past and, through our positions, we are all expressing our opinion at the same time as our ideological stigma. We have therefore listened with interest to many speakers from colleagues from the opposition, both in plenary and in the committee. I shall, however, stand in the speech of my friend from the old, Kostas Scandalidis, with whom I agree, on many points. But he talked about depreciation of the political world and about deep areas and reforms needed in the country not today, but yesterday, and about relaunching the economy. All these remarks are very correct, but really who are they addressing? Who have been ruling over the last forty years and with very large majority? How is it true, Mr. Costa, that politicians have been disdained? Is it an important factor that, instead of going to a modern and organised state in the service of the citizen, you have installed a hard client system at the service of party friends and interlocutors? And today what you're trying to do is put into a balance everything you didn't do over the forty years with the eight months of governance SYRIZA - ANEL. This, dear friends, is the definition of the depreciation of the political world. You know, that reminds me of the joke that was called during the dictatorship. In front was a policeman smiling a song by Mickey Theodorakis and two students came from behind. Suddenly he turns back and tells the students: "You're under arrest." "But why?" They say they're surprised. And he answers: "Why are you listening to Mickey Theodorakis." So the Opposition of the New Democracy - PASOK blames us for what they have not done for so many years. Mercy, gentlemen! As far as the budget is concerned, we have passed and continue to go through the most difficult economic, social and humanitarian crisis in recent years. The Greek people suffered and continue to suffer from the unfavourable fiscal measures imposed upon them after our country's appeal was announced to the aid of the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank on 23 April, in the famous Kastelorizo. Citizens are frustrated by all previous governments to ask us the truth. The magnitude on the one hand, on the other, of the violent economic adjustment resulted in the general government debt increase from 126.7% of GDP in 2009 to 178.6% of GDP in 2014, the growth of the unemployment rate to 27.3% in April 2014 and 28% in September 2013. The labour market has declined by one million jobs - and it may even be - and unemployment remains at a fairly high level. The unemployed have touched one and a half million. This really is the admirable success story of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK! It is true that the tabling of the draft budget disproves the chinas that provided for the destruction of the country by betting on it so that they can return to the governmental thugs in every way, as if this were their inherited right, thus indirectly defying the verdict of our people. But we won't give them that joy. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Surely they cannot save the country those who are responsible for its destruction. Because, ladies and gentlemen, with the materials of demolition, you can certainly not build a new home. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, your destructive scenarios have not been confirmed. Not only did we destroy the country, but we managed, despite the difficulties that we faced both abroad and within, in 2015, to come out without a recession, since it is estimated that the pace of real GDP change will be zero in contrast to a recession of 2.3% predicted in the draft budget in October. On the other hand, the 2016 recession estimate is also revised from 1.3%, which was in the preliminary draft, to 0.7%. The main concern of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is a combination of fiscal adjustment with social justice and the redistribution of burdens. Here we have to see the almost 30% increase in health expenditure, in health recruitment, which has been bleeding from redundancies for five years. I shall refer to the short time that I have left in the area of local government from which I come. In the last five years, a reduction has been made in the CAP by about 60% and the CTA has almost disappeared. Unfortunately this year, because of the tight fiscal policy, we are not making a significant increase in revenue. However, there is a further EUR 38 million grant for the support of the municipalities in order to meet the payroll costs resulting from the reintroduction of municipal police officers and staff employment to clean up school units. Local government has assumed some responsibility over the past few years to achieve surpluses that are burdening the general government as a whole. However, in the case of local government there are certain specific features: Firstly, it is not the total revenue of the ATTs, because 50% of it relates to the collection of fees for transferable payments for pre-financing allowances, revenue from the Public Investment Programme, public and third-party receipts, or revenues that are necessarily converted into equal expenditure. In view of this, the revenue surplus margin is actually 7% to 8% for the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and with the same margin of surplus as for the 2016 budget estimates, while the budgetary targets of the mid-term programme for 2015-2016 provided a margin of 22% and 25% respectively of the revenues, a return that would be jealous of the most profitable private sector companies. As time is over, I would like to refer to the fact that with the programmes of the new NSRF whose main pillars are no longer the major projects, but they are social and developmental, there will be a new start in the economy - what the anti-population colleagues call - and the tendency to flee to the outside will be reversed, especially for young people. In conclusion, I would like to say that for what we are committed to the Greek people, we will continue to fight, with our main objective of restoring social injustices, improving the standard of living of all those affected by the violent adaptation, and leaving our country from the committee. That is why I am voting for the budget and I call on all colleagues to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Yakumato, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, who would have expected this? We shall be voting on the sixth Memorandum on Saturday. Six years of memos! Six years of poverty and impoverishment of the Greek people. He's hitting 'em? Who is to blame for all this, when Cyprus, Ireland, Portugal, Spain, who entered after us, are leaving the memoranda? We're staying. The governments are to blame. It's not the people's fault. The people pay the marble. The people pay the broken incompetent governments. And here I want to introduce, not to bless my beards. But the 2013-2014 government, Samaras and Venizelos, for the first time, brought a balanced budget - for the first time! - with an increase of 1.1% that you did 0.7% after five years of continuous recession. Greece in these six years - and I want you to think about it - has borrowed EUR 205,7 billion plus EUR 90 billion with the third memorandum of the neoliberal Left, a total of EUR 300 billion! Do you know what the people say? Oh, boy, you're a waste, you useless. A load of money you ate. Do you know how much these governments ate? It has been found by the German bank that it is a hundred and fifty trucks - each forty tons truck - used to carry the 100 euro notes to Greece. This is the money that has been wasted all these years and went "in the air". A load of money! And I ask you, what's going on today? What are we to say 'do we or do we not vote'? The recession - you yourself say -1,1 and forecast for 2016 much longer. Secondly, a neoliberal left perception tax storm that has no precedent: you put 5.7 taxes in 2016. And here you don't have inhibitions. You're talking about a social state. You remind me of old - those who remember - Caramoujuni who won without money. And you tell me about a social state when you increase the rates in food! When Hardouvelis - I was Minister of Trade - said to me 'I will increase food', I say 'Take my resignation and get up and leave me alone'. You made it to the left - thank God! - to increase all food! The bread then had 50 minutes, Mr. Theonas. Now it's 89 minutes. All of you who have islanded, because the bread seems to be fermented left, does not ferment right. Mercy! Shame on you! Increase in VAT, in the islands, everywhere! And that's not all you do! You're so fearless, so socially sensitive, that you've increased to the clinical 24%. And you did well! All right, well, the clinic, which has 200 thousand cigarettes a month, needs to pick up EPPY to pay. Otherwise, 31 of the month - Mr Theonas, who was also commander, will have to pay 46 thousand euros of VAT at the time of the left government. Where's he going to pay for it, after EPPY doesn't pay for it? And you're telling them, "Come here, you snipers, make a set-up. After having owed the State, the EEAS to the clinics, to make a set of settlings.’ And the answer: 'Yes, yes, you will.' You have passed to 'two's'. All fairy tales. That's not all. You also put 23% in the nursing homes to collect. And I challenge you in public. ELSTAT says: One and a half million a year is the benefit. That's where you arrived! So we're talking not about social sensitivity, but about frightening social analgesia. I'm coming to the last one now. Recapitalisation of banks. It's never happened before. The New Democracy will do all it needs, what it needs and, if necessary, and elsewhere, to see this, who sold the banks, how the Greek shareholder and the public over 38 billion and took a piece of bread to the banks, the foreign funds. Let's go to the pensions. This is a very nice trick, that is, this art of the Left - this left - of the SYRIZA - to have Romania from Genaris to September, which has tampered with all the elderly, all the pensioners with "will,". I'm still listening to Romania's "will" in the Ear and I'm going crazy! And as soon as it's over, he took the vote. He misled the people, extracted the vote, left Romany, but pension cuts and pension cuts were left. And here, let me tell you something else. Don't tell me about a humanitarian crisis again. You must be ashamed of yourself. You had predicted 200 million from the deficit, you gave the 100 million when the Samara government gave 500 million of the surplus, and we had the minimum guaranteed income. And another thing: Stop this, forty years, that you're making the dirty virgins. Forty years, your responsibilities are to take over. Who is responsible for the cabotage, where the cruise ships didn't come and lost billions of Greece? You and your little girl. The Lafazanis and the others. Who's to blame for the closed factories? Who's to blame for everything that's happened? Yankee's, where didn't the reform take place? You put your tail everywhere. The Left isn't relentless. It doesn't come from virginity. It comes from an enthusiastic policy that has been making forty years. It's not just New Democracy's fault. It's your fault, too. One more thing. I understand and I'm very moved. You are concerned about the course of the New Democracy. Well, I assure you - to understand it and not to worry about why you are emotionally concerned - the New Democracy does not need to. New Democracy is the People's Party, it's the People's Party. The New Democracy makes the social net that you dreamt of in the yachts you meet at night for your tiles. But this is not a yacht. This is a parliament. Know one thing: The social net in Greece made it, for which I am proud, the social centre-right. Remind you of the first commander of IKA, Panaghi Tsaldaris, to remind you of the OGA, to remind you of the work place. The whole social net is our achievement. The New Democracy has given so much to be proud of this fact that it offers forty years by mistakes, omissions but not by such hard policies and so much lies. Such lies where they're going to lead? I tremble and pray and wish. And take serious note of why the helicopters will be difficult to find. I fear that as you take the economic situation, this country - I am shaking! - it will come out of the euro, outside Europe and out of the Shegen with this policy that you do in refugee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u92	And off the planet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u93	God help the people, well to be with such leaders he has, with such useless, false and irreversible government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u94	Mr Sguridis, State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks has the floor. Mr. Sguridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u95	Minister seven minutes? No, Madam President, give him 12 minutes. It's from Xanthi, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u96	We'll have the tolerance of the two minutes given to everyone. Mr. Sguridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u97	He's a good colleague and a generous man, Mr. Giakoumatos. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, most of the speakers in this budget that I have heard from them, whether of the Coupling or of the Reconciliation, have had as their common place in their own way the hard material measures which are being loaded on the backs of the people through the budget. The first to reflect and explain that these should necessarily be taken. The others denounce their application. In the face of this passive economic approach, I would like to give another dimension. To give another dimension to an aggressive economic policy to increase the National Gross Product and increase the economic pie. In this policy, the development ministries of this government and the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Networks serve in every way. The 2016 budget bet that SYRIZA - ANEL government wants to win is to open the way to entrepreneurship. If you are wondering how the transport sector, to which I am the Minister responsible, will contribute to increasing GDP: Transport geopolitics through freight and passenger traffic, contains the element of entrepreneurship. This is a pillar of growth and a tool for reducing unemployment. On the record, not to say words. Firstly, for transport safety, the general actions that we have planned for 2016 have a very small cost but with a great multiplier value of EUR 1 million. The main ones are: The revision of the Road Traffic Code, the monitoring and coordination and implementation of the Strategic Road Safety Plan 2010-2020, the development of a non-corruption - I repeat a non-corruption - system for the education and examination of drivers and trainers and the full development of the innovative ‘e-drive cademy’ programme. As I told you, it is a small cost of great multiplier value, so we need to work. After all, let us not forget that traffic accidents in Greece, according to both literature and scientific institutions, have a cost of 3 billion people a year. Greece pays 3 billion a year from traffic accidents and others. Secondly, transport. Our vision is to turn Greece into a competitive and quality transit hub. This helps the country's geographical position, a portal for the markets in central Europe and for the markets in south-eastern Europe. A prerequisite for this is to create networks of road, rail, sea and air transport that can be environmentally friendly, i.e. reduce carbon dioxide emissions. After all, through such programmes, the country is getting resources from the European Union. For what I said on the pact at the end of July 2016, the strategic plan for transport and logistics is completed. And also the logistics action plan. In this direction for organised freight transport, we have planned and are already in the process of implementing the central international freight centre - which is in the Thriasian field - which will include rail network, station and possibilities for the sorting of cargo. This has already been auctioned and we are waiting on 31-3-2016 final offers. This is first developed in six hundred acres and two thousand acres in the future. For the port of Thessaloniki, we proceed to connect the logistics, which will take place at the Gonos camp. The Gonu camp is already cleaned by the missiles - they are there accumulated - of World War I. So we will be given in order to be able there to attempt for logistics and give weight mainly to agro logistics and city logistics. I would like to say that it is planned - and is in the direction of studying to implement - that there should be logistics centres in Alexandroupolis, Larissa and Igoumenitsa. However, these should also be combined with the rail network, which in Greece for many years has been behind and we know why it has left behind. The realistic plan of the Ministry is the completion of the PATHE railway project, Patras - Athens - Thessaloniki - Evils with electric drive, the electrical movement of the line Alexandroupolis - Ormeni, whose study has begun and the implementation will take place in 2016. And the strategy of the Ministry's political leadership is to proceed - after studying - with the implementation of the Egnatia railroad linking Alexandroupolis - Thessaloniki - Igoumenitsa. Finally, with regard to the privatisation of the ‘TRAINOSE’ and the ‘ESSTY’ – a responsible entity in charge of TEAD and launched in 2013 – the competitions are in the second phase. But my personal assessment is, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be no interest in these competitions. Through the Connecting - Europe-Facility financing mechanism we are well equipped and we are completing partnerships with neighbouring countries in the corridor, which are located, the eastern Mediterranean and the Orient East Mediterranean Corridor corridor. With regard to intelligent transport systems, following the national strategy, which has been completed, we have made progress in the national architecture that is at the stage of public consultation and very soon in 2016 we will have a national framework for developing the applications of intelligent transport systems. For passenger transport. First, in Athens for the OSCE, we update the existing action plan and already put the keys to the online ticket that will bring social justice. The online ticket will run from 2018 in Athens. For Thessaloniki, a committee was set up to recommend the framework for the creation of a single metropolitan transport operator in Thessaloniki according to the OSCE standards and proceeds to the online ticket applicable within 2017. The online ticket actually brings tax justice. It can't be that Thraciotis or Peloponnese paying for the differences in urban transport in the large urban centres. Thirdly, we will propose, after consultation of RAEM, that is, the mobility regulator as the single transport operator for the rest of Greece. Finally, for Elionas, near the metro station according to the new Athens Regulatory Plan, we have the priority to build the national and international long-distance station. The aim of this project is quality, accessibility and environmental protection. Finally, I should like to close with this - and I am already considering the amendment of the legislative framework. This will enable us to improve our licensing procedures and to have a more orderly operation. Everything I said before is in the direction I mentioned earlier, to raise the pie, to increase the National Gross Product, to reenter entrepreneurship in the country. And for this reason to be binding, there is the action plan, that is, the action plan of the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Networks until December 2016. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Panagiotis Sguridis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] I close by saying that the 2016 budget draws up a rode on the boat called Greece to go to the port. The ship will go to the port, regardless of whether the sailors are going into it. Greece found its way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u98	Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Clearly it is an important time for Parliament, for each parliament, when the budget for next year is being discussed. But at the moment it is also historic because it is a budget of a government whose main core is the Left. It is a budget really in difficult budgetary conditions. A budget, however, which is one-sided. And what do I mean? As the government has acted unilaterally in favour of the weak, the poor and the middle classes, this is reflected in this budget. This is seen by the government's policy, by the humanitarian crisis law, by the regulation on red loans which 60% - that is, weak and medium-sized social strata - will not lose its first residence, and it certainly seems from the budget. I will not go into numbers, which will be given in specific areas, such as health, education and, essentially, the relief of the weak. This budget is also characterised by a realism, ladies and gentlemen, which has something to do with the fact that it does not involve possible revenues from the fight against tax evasion. We're realists. However, we cannot say here that the government is following this issue - tax evasion, I mean - hitting it. And I cannot say that this year, in relation to the first quarter of 2014, we had tax revenues of around EUR 700 million. We heard yesterday, and to some extent today, many of the Civic Opposition and Opposition in general. Officer of the Police Department yesterday said it was the heaviest budget in recent years, putting additional burdens on all that our people have been through in recent years. Yes, this budget is heavier than a country budget, our country, which would not have reduced its gross domestic income by 25% in the last four years, ladies and gentlemen, with all the consequences that this has brought, such as the memorandum policies and policies of the previous governments which have brought us here today. But here too, I can't mention some numbers. I cannot say that in the first half of 2015, GDP has increased by 1.1% when all last year it increased by 0.7%. This is Mr Samaras' success story that some return and dream in this parliament as well. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a country which, after the lack of the policies that have brought it here, is trying to stand on its feet and really to return to normal conditions. We have a country which really follows a government which, taking responsibility, follows a specific roadmap. Recapitalisation of the banks. It runs smoothly - and, well, we can say - in fact without getting to the point of getting tired of deposits. That's not a small thing. On the other hand, we have the regulation of red loans, as I mentioned before, which mainly concerns medium and poor incomes. And I'd say 60% of the loans don't let borrowers lose their homes is not a small thing. Of course, all of this, having implemented the majority - not all - of the prerequisites so that the big debt debate can open up next year. He, if you want, is also the goal of the government. Restructuring of the debt. But here, we must say that, in August with the loan contract, there was a minimal restructuring with the loan by the ESM, with the extension of the time, with the reduction of the interest rate. Now someone will say - and we would say - yes, the situation is not the same, as it was a couple of years ago when the lenders said 'we will see the debt'. We've got top-level statements. We should not forget Pierre Moscovisi, who recently said that "we have been ready since 2016 to open this great debt debate". Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot forget the intervention made by the SYRIZA Government and the Prime Minister personally and the reclassifications made at European level. Because some have accused us of losing our allies in Europe yesterday. What allies in Europe have we lost? Greece has now become a major player in the European Union, because it has brought the debt issue to the real dimensions, which also concerns other countries. On the other hand, have we lost allies? Let us remember red loans and first home auctions if we had or did not have allies. Of course we did. In conclusion, I would like to say that a serious area in relation to the country's foreign policy and development has to do with the multi-dimensional foreign policy that the government is pursuing. It has to do with the energy sector, which is very important because of our geographical location. Efforts made by the government and the Prime Minister with contacts with other countries, as recently with Israel. Today the Minister of Energy is in Moscow. The aim is to upgrade our country and the energy sector to become an energy hub, using the geopolitical advantages it has. In other words, Greece is basically coming to the international forum. As much as some are saddened and disturbed that this government exists, goes on, has successes and also has the Greek people with it, while in three successive elections it was relied upon to know that this government came to stay. He's here to stay, he'll stay and it'll work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u100	Mr Arvanitides has the floor for six minutes from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u101	Is it six minutes, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u102	Yeah, six.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u103	Tomorrow we'll be back in six?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u104	We'll see. Today is six. Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after almost a year of governing the first left with a little extreme right, it is time to make a fund. When I was preparing my speech, I was looking to find a description of what we lived from February to today. Truth is, I've had trouble for reasons most of you might imagine. But I remembered a proverb that I listened to as a young person, which in my view perfectly describes the situation in which the government and the Prime Minister finds himself today: 'Back to be ashamed, in front of being afraid'. Many may doubt the first part of the proverb. I don't blame them. After all, we have many examples where the government has proved that it has no sign of shame. They even came to abdicate us because we were supposedly not in a responsible opposition position. Those who have done everything in their power to prevent any reform from succeeding. Those who never put back on difficult decisions. Those who were talking about traitors, donors, interior troika. Those who torpedoed every attempt to leave the country from the memoranda, provoking elections on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic. Those who turned the "no" of the Greek people into "yes". Those who daily make black white trying to convince us that we have to pay with smile the account of their inability. For the second part of the proverb, however, no one doubts. They're afraid to go forward and do everything they can to load their responsibilities on others. I hope, after so many tragic decisions, that the government will understand that it must address the Greek people and the political parties with openness, without regularization and escapism. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, things are simple. If you consider your proposal for insurance to be correct and fair, trust the hundreds of fifty three Members who support you and try to convince them. If you feel that you will not succeed, inform the political leaders of the constitutional arch parties in good time. Other experiments the country can't take. Your tuition is already very expensive and let us avoid VAT on education. You've brought a tragic deal and an unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum. You closed the banks. You have declared a state payment stop. Almost every week the House clears up provisions that it had adopted with a top-down change in the percentage of doses. The urgency procedure and the amendments has become your favorite. You're starting first home auctions. You sold out the banks. You're kicking farmers with taxes. You are preparing insurance that, as everything shows, will have unprecedented cuts and also legislation on red loans, which will hand them over to the distress funds. All this and more, which I am forgetting today, in just ten months. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an obvious weakness in effective governance of the place, which is reflected in the budget as well. Our rapporteur rightly described him as the worst budget in recent years, since it has not only achieved any surpluses in relation to the level of taxes and cuts in expenditure, but also because it also includes provisions and measures that have not been voted on by Parliament, such as the taxation of farmers. In other words, many of the budget estimates are in the air. The 2016 budget will also fail one more reason. Each budget is based on the previous budget. Based on its implementation, the corrective actions needed are calculated to achieve the goals and a fair burden-sharing. Unfortunately, however, in the 2015 budget we have a complete derailment. For example, tax revenues fall short of forecasts by 4.2 billion, and the due amount reached EUR 5.9 billion last September from the 3.7 billion that was in December 2014. In other words, we have an increase of 31%. In fact, in the tax revenue forecasts you have also included additional measures of EUR 1 billion, resulting in a real deviation of EUR 5.2 billion. The cuts for the new year focus on social security. In total, 1.6 billion savings are calculated from pension cuts and other benefits. Also, 18.3m euros from the new payroll, 105m from the social benefits, 500m from cutbacks to the costs of the Ministry of National Defence. And finally, another 22 million out of the care line. On whether the burdens are distributed fairly to the citizens, I think the answer is obvious. On whether you can convince them that the budget is the result of tough negotiation, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close my position with a thought. At the end of 2014, the country was in a step before leaving the memorandum, having paid a heavy price for it. Unfortunately, SYRIZA's thirst for power has pulverised this course. I repeat it all the time, because we often forget how close we were at the source. That is why I believe that the current government bears full responsibility for the situation in which the country is situated. And that is why he owes a brave self-critic to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u106	Thank you to Mr Arvantides and to ensure full compliance with the time. Mr. Pallie, at this point Mr. Bored will speak because yesterday he could not speak in his turn, because he was chairing. Mr. Bored for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget, as the words 'technology' say, budgets. The calculation, valuation, verification or inadmissibility, as is the case with all budgets, at the end of the year. And exactly what this valuation will be depends on various factors. Unfortunately - I cannot say thankfully - one of these factors, which depends on the outcome of the budget data is a political one. Politicians, politicians, are the main reason why we have arrived here and cannot be dismantled. A key factor is an endemic, if not cultivated instability. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed something rotten in the kingdom of Denmark. It is not possible almost a month and a half after the recent elections to raise a matter in this country of the orange pheasant if the government falls, even if it is the country that in every election on the night of the results we were discussing the next. And the fact that the government's camp gave rise to such debates makes the problem even greater. Another topic to say, "see there are serious measures and therefore there is a need to widen social and political bases to support these measures". One another and another. It is a mistake that anyone who thinks that any failure, possibly fatal, may seem, of this programme will be a golden opportunity for him. On the contrary, it will be a flirt of the political system with chaos itself. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u108	But we don't like you. We don't do the same. We don't wish...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u109	Please, Mr President, since you have so much confidence in what you believe to be going on. I took some time off. I say, however, that the rotation of roles between government and counterpopulation by 'yes' to 'no' to all' and 'tumbalin increases the unreliability of the political system, which is now marginal, read all the investigations. Or you probably don't have to read them: It's limitive. I'd say there's a need for suggestions. This is not about transferring government responsibilities, but it needs proposals from everywhere. And on the basis of these proposals, on the basis of coherent policies, conflicts can be sought in the pursuit that I have previously proposed. Only on this basis is coherent policies with a prestigious socio-political and not opportunistic constructions with heavy titles national, which have been somewhat older than us in the past. Where is it in the short-lived? You have to define four years at all costs. In these short-lived structures everyone competes in the face of the ending of the short-lived government and what will happen next, without doing the work before it being done not just by the country, but by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, 2016 will not be an easy year, it will be a difficult year. The portability capacity of large, wide layers of the Greek people is marginally tested. The middle class, which once had a lot to give, and when it had to pay a lot of tax, was evading in the context of government guilt and generalised complicity, is now shrinking and minimising its tax capacity, and I would say that it is being tested by overtaxation. At least, I do not want to impose further healthy productive incentives on those that remain alive and have not been infected by the son of the crisis to remain at least alive and untouched. And I'm saying what I said before about tax capacity because in 2015, we had a billion-dollar time-lag every month. In other words, the accumulation is continuing overdue. We are following a one-way path, and we look forward to a debt solution that will take out the country from the centre of the most vulnerable country, which will create a shock of optimism, which is necessary for the economy to restart. The government must proceed to asymmetric measures against tax evasion and corruption. A sense of generalized lawlessness has been inspired in the world. If the government fails to put an end to this, we will have a torpedo on the foundations of remaining social cohesion with apparent consequences. What about the state? How will it become a production reconstruction tool? I don't know if you're going to state agencies, but where there's contact with the public, there's a tragic relic. Where there's no contact with the public, there's a pond. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute's tolerance, Madam President. I'd say that. My personal opinion is that where we have to look for the left mark, at the moment, in this suffocating context that has been imposed in the country, it is in two things: a fairer distribution of burdens and an immediate response to unemployment. With these indicators, we're not going anywhere. And there is a need for incentives to create jobs, for the original, new, innovative entrepreneurship, specifically incentives. Finally, I would like to say that we need to go beyond that. The merodol - merodol in the negotiation - with the emphasis on merodol and less on mefoil - will not easily take us out of the crisis. It needs to be exceeded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u110	We need to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u111	For example, what happens, there is a plan for returning - there must be a plan, I am not an expert - of deposits? Look at - and I'm ending - from the start of January is the directive that will be implemented, which has a positive one, that is, the protection of deposits below EUR 100,000, but has something invisible about deposits over this amount, when Shoeble refuses to propose a European deposit guarantee. You could say a lot, but I don't have time. But most of all, the country doesn't have time. I would say to all of us and to the government - because the opposition does not know if he is listening - is courageous, because the times, as the ancient ancestors have said, do not repent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u112	That's what the Armed Forces say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u113	I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the public prosecutor's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against Members. Mr. Pallis has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the mid-term programme resulting from the August agreement, which ensures the financial space to break the death spiral imposed on the country, we are called upon to vote in favour of the 2016 budget, the first brought by this government, which is not neutral, but has a social sign. He is financially balanced and enables the government to pursue a social policy in excess of the commitments made by the previous governments. This medium-term leaves a total budget space for the next five years 20 billion and 7 billion for this year, measures that you had undertaken to impose, in total, on five years, in an additional NSRF with targeted cuts in expenditure, such as the reduction of military expenditure, without imposing horizontal cuts in wages and pensions, as you have repeatedly done and would do again if citizens did not put brakes in January and if citizens did not re-appoint this government in September. And here you have to tell us, when you are criticizing us, ladies and gentlemen, what would you do? Reductions in wages, redundancies, closure of services? All this together? But you did that, ladies and gentlemen. You did it. You are criticised for the taxes forced by anointing and destructive crowns. The fact is that we want fairer taxes, and this is reflected in the budget in the fact that direct taxes are increased from 41% to 44.7%, while indirect taxes are reduced from around 58% to 55%, to touch those who did not pay and whom you have protected for so many years. There is a lot of talk about the farmers' tax rates. Is there a proportionality so far in the taxation of farmers, or are there farmers with large incomes who did not pay what they had to pay? Is the solution to the country's agricultural problem to be taxed on farmers, or must action be taken aimed at reducing production costs and improving producer's prices and institutional interventions - yesterday - and all of the strategic planning of agricultural policy, along with the protection of the incomes of poor farmers? That is what farmers, ladies and gentlemen, are asking for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u115	Farmers celebrate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u116	There is also the need for a parallel programme, which you do not understand, which does not negate our country's commitments to the institutions, but creates conditions through targeted actions to ensure social cohesion. For example, the actions prepared by the government and the guidelines available to support projects of mutual benefit, the upgrading and support of health structures and many others that have been said in the Chamber, Mr President. You will see this in Lesvos, who is experiencing the crisis of the refugee, alongside the Greek crisis and no matter how critical you make us, no matter how hate and intolerance some in this Chamber, the political attitude of the government and local societies with the refugee is showing us and, in practice, the need for a parallel programme that will work alongside any budget. We need this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u117	Do we hate each other?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we are invited to vote in favour of the 2016 budget. Collectively as parties, but also individual ones, each one of us must assume its responsibility. We have assumed our responsibilities. But I wonder, as a young man and a new Member of Parliament, addressing colleagues in opposition, particularly those who have been ruling the place in the past many years: Is it your political choice to vote against the budget because it serves other class interests, other than what you are defending? If that's the case, I totally understand. I do not understand, however, a political choice which ranks you among the unconscious in history, which has been abducting your actions to date, a choice of retreat and micro-political purposes. Society expects this Parliament to support a national effort to get the place ahead. We are here to guarantee stability and, over time, all of us will be judged for our attitude, our actions and our options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Palley, for keeping time. Mr. Delis has the floor from the JRC for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you see him, from wherever you catch this budget, you conclude: The people pay in a thousand ways, and the capital, the business groups, win with so many others. One can say, of course, that it is simply continuing the anti-grassrooted budgets of previous urban governments, but that is not exactly the case. The new barbaric measures, more than 7 billion, together with the lines of this year's budget that provides for taxes and social spending cuts, do not replace the old but come to be added to the previous ones that our people have lifted up to make their lives even greater. And they come here to SYRIZA MPs talk about his social dimension, even his class mark. Of course, it has a class mark, except that it is the class mark of capitalists and their system. And that's what you serve with your budget. Dedicated to the development of their profits, intensifying the rattle of the people inside and serving themselves again when you are involved in dangerous imperialist antagonisms in the south-east Mediterranean. See what is going on in education and what the budget for it provides for. While spending on the pan-Hellenic examinations appears to be increased by EUR 10 million - because we are really waiting for an answer to this - and by EUR 30 million for research, overall expenditure on education seems to be about the same as last year's, to be stabilised. But let's see what's stabilizing? The underfunding of education is stabilised, essentially the attitude of payments to it. What does that mean? It means that the tragic economic situation of schools, universities and TEI will continue to be under controlled bankruptcy, because even in this budget there is no specific allocation for free oil, electricity, water, telephone in schools. Why don't you delete the debts of the school committees in the former ECI and let schools live with anguish not to stay without heating? Why don't you bring in a tax-free gas and duty-free oil arrangement in schools and keep it for shipowners only? Why don't you release schools from VAT for their consumables and this discharge you only give it to embassies? Will you finally make a budget for a school meal for all children, to deal with the atrocity of the undernourishment of thousands of people's families, rather than leave them to the professional charity of NGOs, Church and donors? When will you make sure that no child is left out of training, that no children of a people's family are left without medical treatment? When will you fund the anti-Semitism armour of schools and when will their earthquake control that ended in 2010 begin? Thousands are students who teach in uncontrolled buildings, as control was only one third of those schools which were built even until the 1960s. A thousand five hundred new kindergartens are needed to cover the compulsory schooling of all kindergartens and preschool children and even in the current one-year compulsory pre-school education one/3 of kindergartens are housed in inappropriate buildings. To work for builders, to develop for the construction industry, only that all of this wants other power, another folk economy, which takes precedence over people's needs and not capitalist profitability. It means that this budget, among other things, that the sufferings of children with disabilities and the pains of their families will become even higher upwards, since they will continue to pay for those who can for treatments, medicines, technical aids, will find a few special schools that are subordinated and without infrastructure. How can a disabled child in the 21st century today stop the necessary treatments because his parent has no to pay? It means that thousands of popular families will literally spit blood to study their children, since student care at feeding and housing is almost nonexistent. When will you give all the passes to students from universities, TEIs and IEKs for free? It means that even in 2016, there are permanent appointments of teachers while thousands are missing in education. Today we are talking about there is no school that works properly with all its intended teachers and thousands of lost hours make up a picture of abandoning public education. You have reached the point with a recent circular to exclude the children of the unemployed and the families with one worker from the whole school on substance. It means that thousands of substitutes will continue to scatter across Greece every year in another place, with hunger wages, working hostages of a policy that does not recognize the basic right of every person to permanent and stable work. Will you give them all the free movement for all the means of transport? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a while, Madam President. Thank you. While all this is happening and while the third memorandum provides for the continuation of reactionary changes in education and maintains the substance of the legislative framework of the previous governments, the government, in keeping with traditions, is setting up another social dialogue just to hide these problems, to disorientate, in order to get time, to cultivate tolerance to the anti-educational measures being prepared. But, ladies and gentlemen, unsatisfactory people's needs and education cannot wait and they have never been resolved by such dialogue. They feed daily matches that meet the struggles for all the popular problems. These games no one can stop them. We will give our soul to succeed, and today's strike confirms it. The budget has already been voted against in the consciousness of the people. We vote against him, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u121	The reason is the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Mousalas, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, some of your colleagues yesterday raised a number of questions about the refugee problem. I thought it was my duty to come to you today. The reason I couldn't do yesterday is that I was busy working on this thing, which was also very serious. I would like to remind you that I am trying to keep the refugee - immigration on a very low level. In that sense, I will not make a political speech. I'll give you some information and some estimates. A noise has come up, therefore, in relation to the prospect that some European Union countries are asking for us to leave Schengen, because we do not fulfil our obligations towards the European Union. This noise has become much more pronounced in the past week and the reasons, in my opinion - which means that it is a subjective view - are that on Friday we have a Council of Ministers in Brussels where they will try to make difficult things go through for our country. It is about wanting to reassure their public opinion, which is difficult to deal with the refugee. You see, these first came in contact with these huge human moving masses. I also think - and it is a subjective opinion again - that, apart from the nuisances that I may have, there are also claws in Europe in relation to the fact that this is a left-wing government, it has nibbles and it cannot move on to various things. My view is that this whole scene is based on lies, distortion, concealment and adequate weaknesses in the management shown by the Greek Government and I personally. I'll tell you about the lies very sharply. It was written that we were given four hundred Eurodac machines and we are not getting them. We have requested a hundred Eurodac and we have only been given for forty-eight. Every time, since I became Minister to the Service Government, we have submitted a document and we have been asking for Eurodac. We have only been given forty-eight, and this is not like the European Union. Germany gave it to bilateral negotiations, to bilateral politeness, I would say, for its part. One of the accusations is about FRONTEX, namely that we do not want to work with FRONTEX. I say to you that first of all with FRONTEX we have excellent cooperation in the ground and at sea. I tell you that we have asked, since I was a minister of service at least three hundred eighteen people from FRONTEX, and we have only on the ground every month, who have the working hours of their own country, that is, after pressure, work two shifts, and our police are working 24 hours a day, and that creates problems for cooperation. In September I tabled a road map calling for a thousand six hundred men in FRONTEX to be able to help manage the refugee on the islands. Forty people remain every month. I put forward the relevant documents for the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As far as RABITs are concerned, RABITs are specifically FRONTEX, let's say they're the Quartet of FRONTEX. FRONTEX is generally police, which has no sovereign rights, is always under the control of our own officers and we use it in the records. That's why it was created. RABITs are about the same thing with more operational capabilities. They blame us for denying the RABITs. Since July we have asked for more RABITs than we have on our maritime borders, which have not been given to us. I asked for a new RABITs at my meeting with Ashlborne, President of the Commission. There's a very big difference here. RABITs do not want them on our land borders with FYROM, as did FRONTEX, we do not want them on our land borders with FYROM, to do, as she has requested, joint patrols with us and with FYROM. On the contrary, we want it at sea, we want it on the islands. We want the RABITs on the islands and we ask for them. There is one view and one category - all this builds up a climate - that we refuse to make returns, the returns. What's that supposed to mean? He will say that the illegal immigrant from one point to another, when the month that he is entitled to be, is arrested and returning to the country. I would like to tell you that we are continuing to returns in the countries that we are accepting, namely Georgia, Albania and others. We are trying to retourns in Turkey and Pakistan and are not accepting them. On the day when we made the first relocation for symbolic reasons, precisely in an attempt to prove that the government, that we want the permanent relocation, but we cannot continue with an illegal situation, we prepared a sixty-two immigrants return for Pakistan, which came back. Last night we sent thirty-nine immigrants back to Pakistan with FRONTEX planes. They accepted twenty and the others returned to us. There is also an economic issue here. In other words, both returns and relocation after, it is assumed that the International Organisation for Migration is doing so. The International Organisation for Migration has not yet disbursed any money until the meeting I had with Asselborne two, three days ago. Yesterday he disbursed, and he's supposed to have money now. 'Relocation' means leaving here and going to a country of Europe. We made the first relocation. We have another hundred and sixty people who are waiting to be accepted by countries in Europe. However, because of economic issues, because there were no money - the money was unlocked yesterday, after discussions with Asselborne - and because of bureaucratic procedures in the other countries, these sixty people have not yet been able to relocate them. I think it's going to happen in the next few days. It is very important for us to do so, so that there is a legitimate way for these people to go to Europe. Civil protection. They blame us for not asking for civil protection. It's true. I have been a minister since I was a minister - even now - refused to ask for civil protection. There was no appropriate mechanism to be accepted. That's the one. The second is that it was too difficult in this huge current - four to ten thousand per day - to be able to determine the needs with scientific accuracy. Now that the hot spots etc. They have gone their way and we can determine the needs, we have asked for civil protection. We didn't just ask for blankets. We have asked for many things, such as trucks, cars, ambulances, which we are entitled to. I would like to say to you that so far as the countries of Europe have requested civil protection, they have received less than a tenth of these things that they have asked for and in particular have taken blankets. Hot spots. This is a very interesting matter. First of all, this is a title so wrong and unconscious that it creates problems everywhere. These are identification centres. The importance of hot spot is that it is a place where the other person enters custody, sits forty-eight hours or seventy hours at most, becomes a full record and leaves. This is where we're late. And we have a responsibility for this delay too. I mean, we as government and I as Minister. If everything had become a lege artis, we could have been ten, fifteen days ahead today, not more than that. In Mytilini, the hot spot, the identification centre, is ready and we have received a good report on this from the European Union. In Chios we have built a temporary hot spot - I say so - a temporary identification centre, which has been given very good words by the European Union. At Kos and Lero, we'll be out of identification centers, as long as everything goes well by the end of the year. We have commanded the Army to build them, because through the bureaucracy and perhaps even the bad handling of mine in the red tape, we had a delay, which could be missing. In Chios, we are in excellent collaboration with the mayor. We helped him buy a factory. I imagine that by the end of January this will have been built. We have more difficulties in Samos, even though we are very much working with the mayor. We have an old facility, and we're looking to build the new one. We're not ready yet. These, if they happen by the end of December, are a very good look in the European Union. I mean, however, the following for identification centres: Identifying centres - that is to say, typing - were made under very difficult conditions both for refugees and for immigrants and for staff. But it's something we do. We are one of these countries that has a very high degree of identification with the typing, with Eurodac, and it is much greater if we add the inks, which we then pass on to Eurodac. If you think that in Mytilini, for example, we have to identify three thousand people in two nights, one understands the difficulties of this operation and why we ask for a hundred Eurodac while we have forty - and they say they give us four hundred and do not take them - and why we ask for a thousand six hundred police officers from FRONTEX. The second element is distortions. I am sorry that a very serious newspaper replicated the FINANCIAL TIMES, which is also a serious newspaper, but which is lying. And I told you about Eurodac and FRONTEX and RABIT. I have here the statements by Mr Avramopoulos, who is present as if the man were saying that we will be driven from Schengen. I would like to tell you that Mr Avramopoulos, as a commissioner, who has to play his dual role, is probably helping us and rather the statement he makes is a positive statement for us in a bad climate that has been created. I have the European Commission's own statement, which says that there is no problem with Schengen, and that the Commission's effort for both Greece and the whole of Europe is to keep Schengen intact. I have the Asselborne statement at 'LE MONDE', which says that we must fight every idea of expulsion from Schengen and, furthermore, avoid calling into question the Schengen Treaty or excluding a country. Finally, to see how things are distorted, the European Union's health commissioner, an Estonian, who from what I learned is a doctor and what we doctors call a good man, went to Mytilini. In fact, he also took part in the rescue. Then he wrote a letter to the College of Commissioners from where all this saliva began. I have his letter, which has not been released, and I cannot submit it. In this letter, man says that our country is incapable of organising refugee health care as soon as they come out of the sea. Let's say to Mytilini, you know, when you come out of the sea you're on a cliff of sixty kilometers away from the hot spot. It proposes to the European Union measures that can be taken to help us. Looks like it's disgraceing us. It doesn't disguise us. This letter started with history. And he has said to Mytilini, in his visit: "The offer of staff 24/7 is truly commendable. If anyone wants to see what a Europe of solidarity means, he can just come and visit the people here." I have his statements. I'm just finishing up with Idiot. You are right that the situation in Idoquini must be stopped. There has been an effort for a long time now - that is, last week, when this situation is changing - with the police to see how, without bloody violence, the situation can be dismantled. It's very difficult. You are right for those who say that trains are being delayed, and that is a blow to our commercial balance, if I say it correctly. It is within our immediate priorities. I would like to remind you that whenever I have said that the situation will clean up - I told Mytilini and elsewhere - the situation has cleaned up. In this sense, therefore, Inomenis will be given a solution. And this solution obviously won't be a ride in the college children's woods. It will be a difficult solution for our government and I believe that for all political parties too. No one wants violence or anything else. We're giving a chance and we're trying to avoid it. We have written a letter to Mr Avramopoulos, in which, after we tell him our good will to set up a border certification station, we tell him that as the political leader of FRONTEX he has to collect them a little. Because while the decision of the Heads of State or Government of the Prime Ministers was FRONTEX to go to Idomeni - we had asked for it, I asked for it at the level of Ministers and Mr Tsipras at the level of Prime Minister - and to record to those who have escaped us on the islands, they came - and it is an operational body - with a plan for operations, border guards, arrests, etc. and joint patrols with the Skopje. We have explained to Mr Avramopoulos and I think we have found his response. I will now tell you about the unregulated vine and the unregulated borders, and I shall conclude with them. I'm probably a lot of abuse of your time. We manage the land borders perfectly. We don't have any inputs from the land borders. At sea borders there is no possibility of deterrence. It's drowning. And we all know that, and those who have previously ruled, and the government now. This is something that we have said to the European Union that it is not going to be done by us. Besides, no one's asking us. So the problem we are facing - and that is why we have a front of our policy to deal with flows on the coast of Turkey - is that once it enters the boat, when it reaches us, we can only rescue. And that's what's happening. Well, I think I'm tired of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the information. Mr Loverdos has been asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u124	I have asked for the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u125	You will also speak, Mr. Brutsi, after Mr. Loverdos. Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. My speech will be done properly. We've come to an agreement. I'm intervening after a ministerial speech. I have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u127	I thought you wanted to speak as a parliamentary representative for your speech pending.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u128	No, I am asking for the floor as a Parliamentary spokesperson in a Minister's speech. Under the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to do so. It's very right that the Minister came here. That's very right. And since yesterday we had a debate and raised issues by a number of Members, I had spoken, Madam President, and I said that the most correct way is for the Minister to be informed. And he did. I will not dwell on the last thing he said, because what happened and what experiences we have, Minister, is an open matter. With regard to increasing flows in the Tsipras government - drama one - events are known to everyone. But it's not the time. We're for the budget here. It is simply while we are here for the budget, that the refugee is in the form that you have said so. We will have another debate, perhaps before the agenda, on the presidents of the parties or on the committee responsible. This is where questions arise. Thank you for your very detailed position, but I have four questions. First question. Is it not true what we learn from MEPs who speak clearly at all? I invoked Mr. Maria yesterday. And I invoke Mr Maria because he's independent. Whoever else I'd say was part of a party. Mr Avramopoulos does - you know - help Mr Avramopoulos creates misunderstandings. Clear it up. Does it help or doesn't it help? Commissioners from other countries, is it true that they have raised the issue of our two-year expulsion from Schengen? Is it true or isn't it true? If you say it's not true, I believe you. However, this issue has been debated outside the borders. Is it a means of stressing that by 16 to 17 December we must be done with the hot spots, otherwise there are measures such as its elimination? We would like a clear account on the part of the Minister responsible. Question two. About the Immigration you told me that death immigrant - it is not a lie that we have learned - is due to electrocution. There are increased flows in that direction. In Thessaloniki, as I was listening to radios this morning, they are counted around six thousand. They have to go back. You say 'three'. On the trains, as we learn, five people entered the morning. They don't get on the train. What are we gonna do? How will this be solved? Is there a plan? And if they get on the trains and come on, with alpha, beta or fucking way, what's going to happen here? Is this where they're staying? Where are they going? It is an issue that we need to see organized, because if we do not see it organised, we are simply going to change the subject. Third question and last. We are looking for the budget - may we, ladies and gentlemen, be a matter of compulsion and not see it - where the appropriate allocation for the costs required to do your job is entered? We learn that the ESDP does not absorb it. Turkey took the lot of money. We didn't. At least we didn't know we got a lot of money. European funds are not absorbed. Transfers from the budget will be made? I think you should know that. I'm the one who might not be well informed. But you're in charge, and you're obviously well informed. Finally, this settlement of issues with regard to Turkey. I note, Madam President, that we have had a crisis of mistakes in the last few days from the government's side. These are very sensitive issues to fight and crash here today. However, the last of the Prime Minister himself who said, "We have issues with Turkey, Cyprus, refugee, Syrian, Aegean", if he said so, would have been fired. We have only received a continental issue with Turkey for decades. Turkey speaks of the Aegean. "Egyptian" phrase Greek politician has not said. We're talking about a continental continent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u129	He said violations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u130	For the violations, let it go. Dabutoglu told you and you didn't answer. But don't change the subject. Minister, in relation to the European Union-Turkey Summit, what is the correlation between final decisions in relation to two countries that are suffering from the problem? Lost? Did we win something? We're facing a tide of problems. Do we have in? We wanted more than you said today. From you especially!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Loverdo, finish it. Two minutes you've asked and you've been talking five already.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u132	This is happening, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u133	Mr Brutsi has the floor. Mr. Brutsi, do you want two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u134	That same year, Madam President. Minister, you did very well to come here - and I say it clearly - because I intended to ask a question about the issues that are currently going above the budget at Greek level. I, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, listened carefully to the Minister. Minister, I would like to say that you have given us more concern than you have reassured us. And I say this because the Minister has simply raised a number of issues that I am with him. On the Greek side, we are. However, he said that on these issues which we are now claiming, some others are not doing their job well. So there's a question. It's a big deal. With who? With the rest of Europe. That is why we need to see it as a whole, nationally. This is a crucial national issue. Also, Minister, I have the President-in-Office's letter to the Permanent Representatives Committee in my hands, which actually opens up a Schengen issue for the first time, border control over within two years. It's a matter. I shall put it before you, Madam President, because matters now take a very serious dimension. Furthermore, because in politics we are not judged by intentions but by results, you see - and we observe - how wrong it is when in the name of having a target we level everything. The Schengen acquis, which was the subject of the Treaty on European Union, is a matter for the Council and the Commission. 2514/1997, it was a huge step for Greece. It has, in fact, gone deeper into the core of European integration. It was naive - I use this mild expression - by the Prime Minister himself, who in his public places, who are currently on all social media, says, 'E, and what if we come out of the Schengen Treaty?' It's done and it's done! No one disputes these images that are currently running around the Internet, because they are now being made timely. There is the image of the Prime Minister, who says "and what happened?" You got it! Not because the new generations just what we felt...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u135	Who said that? The Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u136	The Prime Minister said so in a broadcast interview with Mr. Papadakis at "ANDENNA" and his other interviews.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u137	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u138	When did this happen, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u139	You'll see it on social media. You saw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u140	All right, all right! Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u141	If that happens - the non-sexual - will lose this great advantage that the Greek people, the Greeks, have today. Some generations have not felt what we, my age, felt, that is to say, passing accreditation, once again having the well-known passports to cross into Europe. This will come back. But he won't come alone. He will also come with the caging of all migration flows within Greece. That is why, Minister, because we are well placed, we are very concerned and we are asking you to tell us what your plan is today because you have told us that there is a matter. There is a document from the Presidency. There is a question that opens up for the Schengen Treaty. There is a dimension of the issues you raised. As you say, Abrahamopoulos - I remove the word 'lovely' - helps the national effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u142	He said, "Irishly."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u143	Yes, I heard the 'Irish'. I think he'll take it off. But it is very important today that you give an answer to them. I'd like to tell you one more thing. You see, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, how government claims are self-evident? Yesterday, the Government spokesman, Mrs Gerovas, came out and said, unlike what Minister Mouszalas said, all these are shadow concerns, dictated by some fantastic centres that describe the rest. Today, we have heard Mr Muzala raise the issue in his real dimension. We're waiting for the answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u144	Minister, how much time do you want? As soon as possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u145	I will be very brief, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u146	As long as he wants to speak, Madam President. As much as he wants. He needs to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u147	Okay. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u148	I would like to make it clear first of all that, for the sake of courtesy of Mr Avramopoulos, Mr Avramopoulos is obliged to hold a double role. How can I tell you? He is the commissioner who must be supranational and at the same time is Greek. In my opinion, it does this with great art and helps the country if that is what you wanted to say. But the 'other' goes to this dual role and not elsewhere. Is it true or not that the commissioners had such a debate? As far as I know, two Commissioners have had such a debate outside the meeting. Furthermore, this issue is not raised by Europe, it is raised by very specific countries and spaces in Europe. The countries are very specific. It's Hungary. They are countries which treat in a way the refugees and immigrants that Europe is basing. But I would like to tell you that very specific countries, like Germany and Mrs Merkel, recognise the job and are against the fences and all these things. It is also Austria with Mr Feyman, as well as other important countries in Europe. It is therefore wrong to say 'Europe is discussing'. Europe's countries are going to create a problem in our country. In fact, I believe that the political leadership of the country - and I mean parties and not just the government - can only find the way to stand together. It has never been said by the government that we do not care about Schengen. We care. We want to be in Schengen. We consider the conquest of the European Union of Schengen to be a conquest and we support Schengen. Right or wrong, anyone can judge it the way they want. As far as I'm concerned, that's right. Mr. Loverdo, they mustn't be finished by 17 December, they must be finished by the end of December. What Mr Avramopoulos suggests, with which I have the honour of speaking often, is that the results should be visible now. I assure you they'll be visible. Besides, we'll be judged. Not many days until 17 December. This paper, which you have shown, is one of the texts which is submitted and discussed on a 24-hour basis, until the final text of Friday comes out. It is therefore not a position of the European Union and the European Commission. He's been in the conversation, you want to tell me. Yeah, but it's something that I could like a Hungarian ask in. It will come in, it will be discussed again and at the end the text will be made. In other words, if in this 'coreper', as they say, Mr Brutsi, you would go and say 'I want immigrants to come in with speedboats from Turkey and with state subsidies', he would enter and be rejected after the debate. That's the meaning of this paper. I don't know how to tell you the final card. I'll tell you when I get back. There will be no caging of migratory flows or this caging of migratory flows that will be such that we can quickly manage it, not with flowers or with wood, but with business. The plans are there. You understand, because you're all phony politicians, that these plans can't be said. But I want to assure you that it will be done. I very rarely confirm something - or I totally avoid it - if it is not to be done. Within the next few days - give a deadline of four, five days - the problem with Ensemble will be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u149	For the budget?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u150	I don't know how to answer you, Mr. Loverdo. I avoid responding to anything other than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Megamomustakas has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u152	Madam President, I would also like to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u153	What do you want, Mr. Theochari? Now it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u154	The Minister made a speech, Madam President, and I would like to say something for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u155	The Minister's leaving because he's miserable. Will he remain answering you again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u156	Now he's finished his speech, and I want to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u157	You weren't here in time. What should we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u158	I only want the floor for thirty seconds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u159	But I'm sorry, I've got 13:45, but you're giving me an appointment on these issues, and I've already done a lot of work. Forgive me, I'll come over another time and ask me whatever you want. I can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u160	Just thirty seconds, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u161	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u162	Let me begin by saying that it is a good thing, Minister, that you are finally putting this on the right basis and not like the Government representative by closing eyes to this problem. Commissioner Avramopoulos, in addition to this document that has leaked for the special scheme, has set the deadlines. The government has closed its eyes to the problem so far. We hope it will change its way soon. We are gradually blocked and cut off by the European Union. Soon the 'ERASMUS' will be cut. I hope that you will continue with this change of policy that is apparent to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u164	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u165	What do you want, Mr. Mada? If, after every Minister, all the parliamentary representatives take the floor, we will not finish. You will take the Members' time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u166	I will only need one minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u167	So what do you want? Tell us too, let's finish. However, I will never give the floor again to anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u168	And you're right. I just want to say for a second: I would beg - and colleagues know - that beyond the information process, as I think it was right and informed, we should keep low tons in this Chamber, especially in this matter. The excesses of this type - and I did not expect Mr Theocharis to say that we are leaving 'ERASMUS' - will also get us out of Schengen - are not really helping the country. They're not helping her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u169	Okay, that's a wish we all subscribe to. Here you go, Mr. Megalustakas, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I should like to refer to something that seemed very strange and paradoxical to me. For the first time I have seen and heard the government call on the people to strike for the anti-grassroots measures which she has imposed. You have mistaken the voters, but you yourself have been misled by saying that you are sad and do not believe in these measures you are bringing. You don't justify it. You're not opposition anymore. You're government. How is it possible for a Minister to bring an amendment and say 'please vote for it, but we will not apply it'? This mocking to stop sometime. He just doesn't give up seriousness. So, following the debates of the previous days in plenary on the budget, I listened with great interest to a SYRIZA speaker who said that the first time a budget comes from the Left and that through this you are showing your priorities. So, by studying the budget brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL - which on the left you are not saying it clearly - I see that development is not among your priorities. It's not between, because growth... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Please! Respect that I'm here. You have time to talk, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u171	Don't beg us. When you're addressing this way, don't beg us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u172	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Theonas, please don't interrupt. Let the young speaker speak. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u174	They're always insulting us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u175	You've been in the House for so many years. Learn the rules. Please leave me a moment. Development doesn't come with taxes. The tax is, in particular, an increase in VAT rates, an increase in income tax rates, an increase in tax on free-traders, an increase in tax on farmers, an increase in income tax on natural persons, a abolition of the refund of the VAT on oil for rural use, a reduction in half of the heating oil subsidy in the 2016 budget. You also have the ENPIA, the abolition of which you had as a flag, while we hear that you will also increase insurance contributions. Explain why we should charge the Greek people with this. Why not house the state by taking measures, fighting pathogens? And this will be done with some of the points in the Centro Association which many of you are mocking and which are: Abolition of polythesaurus. Reduction of the remuneration of appointed officials and officials. Reduction of Members' advisers. Taxes on houses enter those who have more than two houses in E9 declared. The first two should be removed, as should the income of each individual. Elimination of all wages and - I repeat, only of the slow wages - of the public. Immediately abolish the state subsidy to the parties, balance of private rights with the public sector, and cut pensions for those who have an income of more than EUR 3 000 a month. Europe is going forward, and we are going back and we will find ourselves in a duel! In 2015, we have a primary deficit and all these measures have been passed that the people do not know if they can withstand. It is also said that we will take other measures if these measures are not effective. Have you considered what that means? We hope for these new measures that you will bring - because we are sure that you will bring them - not to tax, but to have a developmental character. In the budget you brought us you have an increase in revenue. This increase in revenue is due to an increase in taxes. You have devastated and are trying to destroy the last free professionals and farmers who can and do their job. Unfortunately, taxes are not properly distributed as you bring them. You should change that. These taxes will not bring you the revenue you want. There is no way, not even one in a million. People can't pay them. The fat burned. Burned, no more, no more! He doesn't, no, he doesn't. He doesn't have it anymore! Indeed, it is challenging when you tell the citizens 'pay us' and the government's late payments to the private sector have increased to 60%. So the citizens pay us, and we can be a state-sponsored cop! It's not right. Unemployment is currently at 25% and, in particular, for young people, it is 50%, without the fanatics and students being included, for whom there is certainly no programme for them to be immediately restored. We don't have to comment on this, you understand it yourself. The figures speak for themselves, when you did not even carry out half a billion euros in 2015, which were ready to help the unemployed. The rate of people at risk of poverty has reached 36% of our population and you are letting 350 million euros go too. Where's the rule of law? Where's the State of the Left? One in four Greeks is unemployed. Nine out of ten unemployed people get no help from the OAED. Seven out of ten recruits are recruited in temporary jobs. How will all this be solved? Fighting investment? How? Or do you think that's how you'll keep the young? They're all going abroad. What are you gonna do? Will you open up new jobs in a semi-employment scheme as you do with the cleaners or open up new jobs in the public sector to help your ‘children’? And you know exactly what I'm saying. Unfortunately, you are adopting policies that have brought us here. What you've been accusing each other for so many years, you do it yourself. You are constantly burdening the private sector. You don't motivate young people. And I will give you an example. Someone opens a border oven, opens two new jobs. He's investing an alpha amount. In the first year, he does not pay an advance payment and tax, as there is a balance of revenues with costs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, give me some more time, because I was interrupted. That man I told you about, then, the first year he's not paying. The second year, it raises a sum of EUR 1,000 a month in which you live at this time, because families live with 500 euros. But what do you tell him? You're telling him 26% tax plus 26% advance on a new businessman. You get him 52% of the 12,000 euros he makes annually and he has 500 euros left. Will he feed his family, or will he do amortization? What's he gonna do? Tell me, is there any provision for new entrepreneurs? Nothing. Zero. And I know it because I live it. Now I've made a new business, and I can see. Yes, move your head, gentlemen. Good for you. This policy is dangerous and your handle is seen by how you deal with the primary sector. Indicative of how you want to see growth in the agricultural sector is the fact that first as a measure of rural development on page 52 of the report you put the intake of a hundred researchers in 2016. That is, once again, a model of recruitment in the public sector, as if these recruitments were going to bring growth to the agricultural sector. All these recruitments will serve is to create voters to the SYRIZA. We want young people for farmers. We are first on an average age basis for farmers, in Europe. Finally, I will speak very briefly about education. There is a new institutional framework for research and innovation. It changes every year. In 2014 another, 2015 another, in 2016 another. Education wants stability, and I'm talking like a teacher. We can't get anyone what they want. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Tell me, is that right? Is it right what you want to tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Bigfoot, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u177	You're right. I'm sorry. Because of my indifference, I don't really know how to respond to the constant holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u178	Okay, I'll excuse you, but you've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u179	Nowhere do I see a concrete plan to combine entrepreneurship - market with education. How will new jobs be opened? Greece should be the centre of humanitarian studies and this because of its heritage. We were first in science, art and letters. So we would also gain a view that helps tourism, but we would also open up new jobs. Honestly, we need to change our policy, and I mean all together. But what can you expect from the Minister of Education who questions the Pontius genocide? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] All right, all right. You guys go ahead. You sold hope and people bought it, but now it's gone. The budget you brought us, as an old companion would say, is detestable, shameful and unsustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u180	Try to keep the time. Try your speeches, it's written. Mr. Psychoyus has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to point out to the Members and colleagues of the New Democracy and also to PASOK the following: to tell us their own plan - although we have already seen it in previous years - on immigration. Here neither at the meeting nor at the meeting of the Political Heads agreed to agree on a strategy on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society has shown its solidarity in practice and as the Minister said, it is also the subject of discussions in Europe. The Greek Government is addressing the issue with determination and it is important that we do not return to what we have seen in the days yours, to the tactics of repression, to the hunting of witches and to inefficiency. So it would be good to take care of how we are placed in it and make proposals on this. Coming to the budget, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that all those who have been terrorizing public opinion for so long anticipating the deep recession that the country's economy will suffer because of SYRIZA's policies are being disproved today in the best way. By tabling the budget, it appears that the recession in 2015 will eventually fluctuate at almost zero rate, far below the initial calculations. Furthermore, thanks to the negotiation he made, the government achieved a primary surplus of 0.5% for 2016, while on the basis of the previous programme it would be 4.5%. That, as you know, would mean 7 billion euros, and at the moment we are taking measures of 850 million euros. In this context, it is more than a clear sign that the budget is spent in a confessedly difficult and suffocating situation. The text of the report refers to burden sharing in a socially fair manner, without the tactics of horizontal reductions, the easy and friendly tactics followed by governments so far. After the last five years, it is the first time that social spending has increased, as benefits amount to 823 million euros. The unsecured card, free access to hospitals, free movement to the means of transport for the unemployed, extension of the minimum guaranteed income and the targeted movements of the humanitarian crisis bill are some of the measures we will implement to compensate for the difficult measures we have before us. It is also worth highlighting the nine hundred and eighty-five direct hirings in the area of health that will take place over the next period, and the two thousand four hundred forty. It is also a burden on the strengthening of public investment, as they increase by a total of EUR 350 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer here to the actions of the Ministry of Justice for the following year as a lawyer and a member of the Committee on Justice. Regarding the Ministry's Public Investment Programme, the actions that are selected aim at modernising, improving and simplifying the justice system in our country. Specifically, actions are proposed for inclusion, including: an integrated judicial and criminal management system; teleconferencing services in courts and penitentiary systems; in order to speed up the procedures; in order to speed up the digitisation of the mortgages; as well as in a pan-Hellenic study on their restructuring and best functioning; electronic services for the out-of-court resolution of disputes, which will dismantle courts and mediate, upgrade the educational programme and infrastructure of the National Judicial College. In addition, with regard to the penitentiary system for 2016, very specific actions are planned, such as strengthening healthcare and prison equipment, reforming rural prisons, training of prisoners, supporting the system of rehabilitation of prisoners and strengthening their professional reintegration. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the above very important points in the 2016 budget, as SYRIZA we do not celebrate and highlight some of the problems it has, for example, in sport. However, we are in full agreement with both the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General of Sport, in order to meet the needs that exist in an Olympic year. We are well aware that in order to meet the difficult requirements of times, the main bet is to step on corruption and tax evasion and achieve the greatest possible debt relief. And surely people expect our incomes to come mainly from there. But they cannot stay unanswered and many inaccurate charges and charges that have been heard in this Chamber over the last few days, for example, that SYRIZA does dirty work for capital. Is anyone wondering, ladies and gentlemen: the 80 million of the Faltsian and Lagard list that has so far emerged, most of the offshore controls for 2015, the Westphalia-Rhine list which, while only our own government was at the disposal of the country, has asked for and exploited, the promotion of the new system of supplies to the ESS and the actions of the government in Skouria and so much else is the dirty work for capital? It is a fact that criticising safe is easy and borrowing an image I have from football - which I have served besides the law - I will say that when you don't take the ball on your feet, you can't change the flow of the game. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Madam President. It was also heard that the government is against mobilization. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that you have followed the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, in which the Prime Minister said that we are strengthened in our negotiating tactics by the existence of mobilisations and claims from the world. Obviously here we are dealing with a different concept and culture, which the previous governments were totally disconnected from society and saw as a class struggle. At the moment, however, it is clear that this thing is strengthening the negotiation effort and that is why SYRIZA is also participating in some of them. In closing and slightly paraphrasing the Arab proverb that the Prime Minister used yesterday, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that 'as long as dogs are screaming, it means that we are doing our job well and that the caravan is going on'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u182	Mr Arabatzis, Member of the European Parliament, now has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really feel a temporary satisfaction with reading the budget, because I have finally solved a tortureous question for months. I abstained, of course, like the whole planet, where it was found so capable of being inspired by a surrealist government in parallel to the Monty Python television series! But, seeing the author of the budget, Mr Tsakalotos, I realised that this man was breast-feeding with Monty Python. Unfortunately, for our country, ladies and gentlemen, we are not spectators of a satire, we are not spectators of a television sketch. Unfortunately, the Flying Circus - I am lending the term from the relevant satirical order - is the government of our country, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Only then could it be interpreted that we have the country's first budget, where the party, which recommends it, calls on the citizens to protest against it in the streets. Only then could it be interpreted that Mr Mardas blames the previous governments for failing, because the memorials did not apply to the letter. Only a surreal government would think of increasing taxes, when the middle class has disappeared, and at the same time when the poor remain hopelessly on the margin and domestic investors are driven from a country that avenges growth and "business" with momentum and rabies. Only a surreal government would forget to ask for a six-month extension of the NSRF 2007-2013, subtracting 2 billion funds from the winter Greek economy and only a surreal government would not have absorbed even 1 euro from the new NSRF. And, of course, only the co-pilot of a surrealist government, Panos Kammenos, could now call on the Members of the New Democracy to set up a memorandum front. Who? The one who left New Democracy refuses to vote for memos, the one who said that "I will neither cooperate with anyone who voted for a memorandum"! I am not going to talk about the memos you would rip, I am not going to talk about the thirteenth pension you would give, I am not going to talk about Europe that would go away under the pressures and duvets of Mr Tsipras. I am going to talk about all these tragic events since the September elections, and I am going to talk about all these tragic events described in this year's budget, which is probably to be renamed 'taxation', since it taxes what is moving, what is walking, what is breathing. Only the nice pets have escaped for the time of your taxi mania! The budget - irrational of the SYRIZA - ANEL is irreversible, it is material, it is socialist for professionals, for farmers, for pensioners, for insured persons, for all citizens. Increase the advance tax payment to the free traders by EUR 114 million and to legal persons by EUR 156 million. You are raising the advance tax on farmers by 78 million euros, I would remind you that it went from 27.5% to 55%. At the same time, farmers will pay EUR 102 million from the increase in contributions to the OGA, EUR 13 million from the abolition of excise duty on oil and EUR 32 million from the increases in income tax. At the same time, your budget cuts pensions of EUR 538 million, social allowances such as the EUR 105 million heating allowance and finally the EAS by EUR 223 million. This is your budget, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the abortion of the neoliberal Left you want to cover. That is why Mr Tsipras is calling for the consent of the political leaders. Who? The chief who only a year ago said that he was not consenting to anything and threatening Europeans that he was not going to recognise anything they would agree with the previous Samara government. So this man, with enthusiasm today, demands consensus at the time that characterizes the opponents of the dog. It obviously forgets our practical agreement on August 14th, the lifesaving that we offered you, in order not to find the country outside the euro, while your ex-competitors one - one jumped off the boat lifting up their own neo-participatory banners. Finally, you pretend you're negotiating, pretending you're ruling, pretending you're asking for a consensus. It is enough with the malicious triumph, because the consensus, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, takes precedence over apology and consciousness. But what conscience are we talking about? What should anyone want first? The instruments of Mr. Paraskevi, which Yannis Panousis himself, your former Minister, let it be understood that he was a product of negotiation with the terrorists? Or should we remember the undocumented Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, for his scientific refusal to go to the Pontius genocide? How irony and shame! From the theory of the genocide of the memorials you have reached the denial of the Pontius genocide! And Mr. Friend, uncontrollable, of course, and unregulated, continue to cause by appointing the head of the review of the programme and of school books another scientist, Mr. Liako, who describes the Macedonian jihadists, the Zaloggos dance and the secret school with great patriotic nonsense! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. You despise education, you left the banks. The famous banking system, which SYRIZA - ANELs strongly refused to divest, avoided selling it simply by giving it to the first passer. You who had as a political flag "the sellout of the country", which in every privatization, from OTE and PPA to regional airports, were told to take our "silver" for a piece of bread, and you played the lead in the definition of the sale of Greek banks in foreign capital only, in what you called "brows" yesterday! You are accountable for this scandal that turned an investment of EUR 25 billion into a complete deinvestment of only EUR 500 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u184	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u185	Don't interrupt me. After that you have now become the "Brother of the Knights of the Elephant Bank", to remember the Monty Python. And as if internal suffering were not reached, you are constantly risking our country's position abroad with an external policy of unarmed and childish that is done with tweets written unthinked and erased following orders. This foreign policy is in danger of getting us out of the Schengen Treaty today? After all, it is necessary for you to ask the House to support and vote on this budget. You are the government of closed banks, you are the government of capital controls, you are the government of Grexit, you are the government of political deception. Resign the hopeless effort to act as ruler. Suffice in the satire of the flying circus. And you will find your destination and our country will be able to hope for better days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Circus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, I wonder about the scenario of what film we could liken't like the scenario that says that the Ministry of Finance of Rhine-Westphalia was trying to give the lists of the names of the Greek depositors to Swiss banks, but did not find any response. The budget for the financial year 2016, which we are debating these days, certainly has nothing to do with the budgets of the previous governments. This budget for the first time shows the great effort of left-wing government to leave a different stigma, under extremely difficult economic conditions, under conditions of a difficult compromise, led by the government to avoid bringing the country into a disastrous economic and social disaster. However, this budget gives a clear signal about how we understand the economy and relations between the fundamental sizes of the economy, but also the role of society and its needs in economic reality. We did not make another budget out of society, but neither did we make the reality of riding a little more time into power. It is part of a comprehensive effort by the government to illuminate the way out of the crisis in four years' time, creating the necessary infrastructure for the next budget for left-wing governance, for which we are optimistic that it will be even more redistributive, more fair, more geared to productive reconstruction, more geared to the development process and the reduction of unemployment. This is because we have ensured an important space for our own social policy. The social budget for 2016 is increased by EUR 823 million, EUR 300 million in health. We are therefore pursuing a policy within a suffocating framework of the budgetary situation, under the conditions of committee, which we are striving to lift and call on the Greek people to stand alongside us, so that together we can lift this committee. And make sure that we run out of room to stand next to those who need the most. So this is the left footprint we want to leave with this budget. This budget is not neutral at all, but it has a clear message of the social model found at the core of our ideology and our own struggles. It is a budget that aims to create a budgetary balance, but at the same time to deliver social justice, to redistribute burdens by reducing the weak, after five years of economic crisis. And despite the great difficulties of this tough negotiation, we have achieved results in the economy that disproved those who rushed to talk about disaster, since in 2015 it closes with zero recession, i.e. with a stagnation, while the budget that we are debating for 2016 for the first time provides for an increase in the Public Investment Programme and for a redistribution of funds to support the economically weak, by strengthening the health budget and increasing the appropriations for hospitals by 300 million euros. These are measures aimed mainly at parametric measures, not non-measurable, i.e. measures, revenue from the fight against corruption and tax evasion. This is therefore a realistic budget with the potential to increase the expected revenues, which can give even greater room for social policy. This is to remember the huge revenue they incorporated in the previous budgets from non-measurable measures, up to about EUR 2 billion, in order to achieve surpluses, which they have never actually responded to. So the low budget targets we have won allow us to prevent further measures from being taken in the next quarter and create the space to support lower strata. As other colleagues have already said, we have avoided 7 billion new measures. It is therefore a budget which promises economic and social realignment for the year ahead, a year that we have to implement our plan for the parallel programme to compensate for the negative social consequences of the agreement of 12 July, a year that will be opened by the debt debate, immediately after the first assessment has been completed. In circumstances of credit suffocation, therefore, we have set our goals in the Greek people's crisis and we received very recently, in September, the mandate to fight to get the country out of the crisis. And the Greek people stood up. Although he knew the difficulties, he showed the way for productivity and creativity. This budget also mirrors the negotiation that has been made and the risk we have taken. It mirrors the great battle the Greek Prime Minister and his government have fought. It shows our determination to be muddled to unleash the place. It refocuses society and its needs on a very suffocating financial area that we have in order to pursue our own policy. And in order to pursue this policy, we will first and foremost address society, to ensure its consent to our hard work effort to open roads, even where they do not exist. To open the way to productive reconstruction, to develop prospects, to combat unemployment, to a parallel programme which has already been part of it. I am talking about a parallel programme that we SYRIZA Members have to claim, invent, where there is no, and redesign it with society. That's the only way we can do it and we'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u188	Mrs Vlacho has the floor since the Golden Dawn. Here you go, Mrs. Vlacho.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u189	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come and represent the most beautiful county in Greece, Halkidiki. Apart from livestock farming and beekeeping, i.e. the primary production sector, tourism is the most important area for the development of the local economy, offering thousands of jobs to the region. Every year hundreds of thousands of visitors are flooding all over Halkidiki. The foreign tourist, who wishes to visit Halkidiki, is able to access by air via the airport "MAKEDONIA". Unfortunately, the road network of the county is a papalaio. Most of it was built by MOMA decades ago and because of its oldness it makes access to many areas in the most part of the prefecture and is afflicting visitors and locals. Even Mount Athos can't reach a pilgrim without much trouble. This makes it difficult for access to Uranoupolis too, where the port is. From there, in order for tourists to visit Sithonia and Mount Athos peninsula, especially those who cater to the hotels on the side of Thermaikos, they must make the crossing through the whole balance of Nea Potidaea that has terrible problems. There are landslides, trees fall into the sea, cars and people have fallen and I fear that, over time, houses will fall. That is why we need to take immediate steps to prevent the worst. I am saying this in order to highlight the need for Halkidiki to invest, which will upgrade its infrastructure, the road network, the New Potidae balance, to be able to support its tourism and make it easier for its inhabitants. But Halkidiki doesn't matter to the government, and my county isn't mentioned in the Public Investment Plan. The government lets Halkidiki rely on residents' honesty and hard work. The latest official figures speak of a million two hundred and fifty thousand unemployed. This is directly related to the unwise policy of the government on immigration, which we denounce. The fight against unemployment requires that we do not have to offer a massive period of residence permits and then work permits to foreign nationals. Furthermore, the illegal immigration that fuels uninsured and black work must be struck. It must finally stop the pattern 'Greeks in unemployment and foreigners at work'. The standing position of the Golden Dawn for decades has been that uncontrolled migration is an asymmetrical threat to our nation. The Golden Dawn will continue the race for Greece to belong to the Greeks. How ironic does it think that today many Greeks are sleeping on the benches and the first-time government on the left makes homes for illegal immigrants with all comforts? Of course, after the worries of the government to close the banks in the summer, with the consequences of the country's tourism being huge because of this financial crisis, with the government's non-existent foreign policy, it will make it easier for illegal immigrants to join the islands of the eastern Aegean. And within the migration flows that cross uncontrollably across our country there are the jihadists, who are currently scattered, by thousands, across Europe with a gateway of entry, the unguarded borders of our country. Now close the border. The open-ended policy must finally be stopped. All Greeks today see what happens in Idomeni in Kilkis. The policy of our government has brought us to an unacceptable point. Apart from terrorising the locals, the Skopje border situation is causing problems in the country's exports and imports. Thousands are the goods trapped there. As far as Halkidiki is concerned, this situation is particularly affecting beekeeping. The achievements of the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos have not been stopped. The government, with the so-called insurance reform, will end the third age. It continues to steadyly reduce paid pensions to pay international loan sharks. The creditors do not exclude any drafting from the new scheme and have therefore given the parameters and criteria which will recalculate any pensions. They want the burden to be shared to everyone with cutting percentages that will start from 3% and escalate to 20%. The country's pensioners will be the first victims of the first time left. Tsipras continues the theatre of supposedly negotiation, while he is ideal to pass the most destructive memorandum that could not pass Samaras and Venizelos. At the Omonia Police Department there was an incident where a police officer slapped two illegal immigrants, because they obviously insulted him, and gave them 150,000 euros compensation. But would it have happened if a police officer or his family had a corresponding incident? I don't think so! The country's policing is based only on the honorableness of the police. Without equipment, no patrol cars, no fuel, surviving wages are struggling to combat the robbery. The government shows no will to support the work of the police. On the contrary, yes. Looks like he's allergy to anyone wearing a uniform with the national court. Gentlemen, our ancestors have sold property to make home, and you sold home to build property.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Aegakis from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes, and then Mr. Mardas, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, will speak for seven minutes. You're welcome, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the country's budget for 2016 without the presence of either one of the Ministers, State Secretarys, Deputy Ministers, the financial staff, but only of the dear Mr. Tsironi and his equally sympathetic Mr. Spirtzi. What it has to do with the budget, they know and they can defend. Now, we are talking about a budget that takes us years back, a budget that abolishes the social state, but also the welfare state. After ruining the country's economy, after having broken down everything with effort and sacrifices the Greek people managed to build the years of crisis, after derailing the balanced 2015 budget, to recall that it was the first balanced budget after many, many years - creating huge deficits of millions, presents today and discusses the budget for next year. This is a budget which also increases taxation, also burdens pensioners, strangles much - and much more than they expected - farmers, is also destroying the free trade and the private economy, and a large number of social costs, which you were defending in the past period, and is increasing the public debts, creating major problems, particularly in the provision of health services. Ladies and gentlemen, we inherited you with balanced budgets and budgets that created a primary surplus. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the ANEL and of the SYRIZA, with the negotiation policy - and my own short-sighted policy - have literally led us to the recession, to primary budgetary deficits, but also to an increase in public debt. But let us see briefly the items of the budget that we are discussing today. Firstly, the Greek economy has returned to the recession. Already, since the third quarter of 2015, the country's development has been reversed, and the outlook for 2016 is worse than in 2015. Secondly, the public economy returns in 2015 to a primary deficit after two years of achieving primary surpluses. In other words, you are taking us back to the deficits despite the fact that you have already implemented austerity measures. Thirdly, the government is continuing its internal payment posture unsatisfactoryly. The government’s outstanding liabilities to the private sector are increased by 58% compared to the end of 2014. Let me remind you that the Samaras government had reduced the outstanding debts by 60% in the period 2013-2014. We received due debts in fact 8.7 billion in 2012 and delivered the amount of the debt to 3.8 billion at the end of 2014. On the basis of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. And I say at the outset, because I am very afraid that the calculations will still not come out and the account will of course not be in place and the next step will be to impose further unfavourable measures. Let us note that the additional measures you impose concern for most of the additional taxes on households and businesses. They are measures such as: the increase in VAT rates on legal persons, the special contribution to solidarity, the tax on insurance premiums, the taxation of rent income, and the taxation of farmers, the abolition of the reduction of the one-off payment of income tax, the abolition of an exemption from the HPAI - the HPAI that you said you would abolish along with previous memoranda - the increase in the advance payment of income tax to legal persons, free traders and farmers, which you are otherwise defending, the gradual abolition of the reimbursement of excise duty on oil for agricultural use. Let us note, of course, that the bill of measures will ultimately be much higher. And it will be much higher, ladies and gentlemen, because there are measures which have not been quantified. Keep this to discuss after a few months if you're still in the government. In other words, there has been no assessment of the possible revenues they will bear, not to mention the consequences of these measures. Fifthly, he is inexistent in the specific budget that we are discussing in the social budget, which is sinking to deficits. My government - on the left - is abolishing both the social state and the welfare state. According to the budget we are discussing and will vote in the next few days at the Common Insurance Agency, there is a deterioration in insurance contributions, pension costs, and unpaid liabilities. Sixth, 2015 tax revenues are the lowest in the last decade. Despite the additional taxes you impose, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, the revenues have been reduced. And that, as you can see, is mainly due to the deterioration in the economic environment. As a wise Greek proverb says: "You can't get out of the wing. " How are you getting money from someone who doesn't have it? Seventhly, the reduced budgetary targets for which you celebrate do not guarantee for themselves an important financial area. The budgetary objectives depend directly on the situation and dynamics of the economy. I am going to a chapter of experts, who are listening to the name 'banks'. Ladies and gentlemen, with a lot of question, we have watched the government take on the so-called successful recapitalisation of systemic banks. Why are you here, ladies and gentlemen? Why are you celebrating here too, but also on TV windows? Because in June 2014 the value of the old shares of the systemic banks was estimated at EUR 37.8 billion, while today - you know it, but hide it - the same shares are worth only EUR 800 million? Because, in a few months' time - to understand what we are saying - 37 billion euros have disappeared, 20 billion euros of which were from the CFSF, that is, from the Greek State and 17 billion euros from Greek private and institutional investors. In addition to the inaccurate depreciation of bank shares and the heavy burden on investors and the public, the new recapitalisation is significantly reduced and the rate of the Financial Stability Fund in the banking sector with just 26.5%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute more, Madam President, please. The remaining 73.5% now control mainly foreign private investors, but also some aggressive funds which the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexis Tsipras, reported previously. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, we have the total denial of your memorial rhetoric. All that is happening today, we have told you, we have pounded the alarm and, instead, we have unfortunately received deceptive and slandering answers. And while you had the opportunity - and we had the opportunity as a country - to take measures by mail Hardouvelli of EUR 800 million, you chose the other route, that of Mr Varoufakis, and eventually joined the logic of the third memorandum in the worst way. Unfortunately, all that you have been accusing the previous government, today you are washing it, we are all being bathed together as a state, as a country. You are subjected in the worst way to the troika, you have no direction - it is clear - and, at the same time, you have a great deal of courageously maintained a bipolar rhetoric. On the one hand, you have hallucinations about what you are doing - it seems that - but on the other, you are resisting, for my part, a dangerous rhetoric, which has serious political but also worthwhile consequences. I am voting against and we are voting against the budget as a new democracy for all the reasons I have just mentioned and many other colleagues. But remember, one year before things were quite different, the frustrating desire of Mr. Tsipras to become Prime Minister, the refusal to consent to the face of the President of the Republic, the impoverished sharing of myths and hope and the criminal ignorance of reality have unfortunately led us to a great national retreat and the loss of a national acquis for which the Greek people have been sacrificed. Even today, it is not too late for Mr. Tsipras to understand that he has to leave. We must leave immediately and move on to a universal government, certainly more capable of today's 'chief' by Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, independent of a Leventis and a leventopard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u192	Mr Mardas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I have to respond to a staff issue and then present our policy. I believe that some of the opposition are looking for cheap alibis through various statements, which they do not read or hear, to interpret the failure of their policy. I am referring to the issue, which has also been raised by the New Democracy's dearest colleague in an intense literary style, the fact that I accused the opposition in general of the cowardice he has shown and of the strategy mistakes he has shown with a view not to literally applying the memoranda he has signed. If you find me the phrase 'in letter' not only in the statements I made recently, in any statements I have made or in what I have written from October 2009 to today, I can tell you that I will resign from the government immediately. Therefore, it would be good to hear what we are saying and if we do not hear it well, to do some transcripts when we want to make criticism. In the transcript I have recently said about what I have said at a specific station - I quote the words that are my voice - it reads: 'In the context of a cowardice shown by all previous governments, the implementation has been trainped'. And then I say: 'Some measures'. Between the 'Trene' and the 'treat', there is an approach that is far from paradox. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dimitrios Mardas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned transcript, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What did you do in the context of the memoirs? You did not run at all and implemented immediately, without the slightest delay what you considered to be crucial and related to austerity policy. You implemented it immediately: wage cuts, pensions and anything else there was. That's how you thought you had to walk. That is why I am also making personal criticism from the 2009 budget, if not from the 2005 budget. Therefore, it is not possible for ten years now to conduct a policy which is contrary to what you have done so far and suddenly to the eleventh to be "memorandum". What does "three" mean to make a tymology of the word? It means that you have not applied the self-evidents, which I have said on several occasions from the seat of the House. What does it mean to mean that you did not 'apply the self-evident', not during the memorial period but since 2005, where the Greek economy had a tiredness - these are you going to see in my texts - and you had to change Roots? Instead of changing the question you should have followed, the New Democracy preferred to create some EUR 30 billion in the budget over five years. Subsequently, when the memorandum came, you preferred to apply immediately, without any running, a policy of austerity and leave a bunch of policy measures that would take off the Greek economy and we would not experience this phenomenon, where we have a world-wide one: 25% of GDP reduction, 60 billion euros in five years. There's no other country on this planet! So, from the outset, the austerity policy that you have implemented, with measures that you have run and have not implemented, gave us a mixture of policy, which has reached us here and we are starting with a point that we must manage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u194	Tell us a meter!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u195	I will now tell you what the policy measures you have taken and where we have begun to implement. I'm not talking about corruption. During this entire period, we were crumbling in the corruption stage. So that means you didn't do what you had to do. On the issue of waste: you have never read the budget line - line, to see what to cut off. All your cuts were horizontal! The budget now reads for the first time a line - line. And not all lines. They don't all have to be read. We have not dealt with wage-related lines at all. We have been dealing with other budgeting consumer and operational expenditure, where there is waste and we have cut money at this time. About privatizations: If you think this thing you did was privatisation, we need to review this term. I have said it and said it on several occasions that Stiglicic of this kind of privatization, calls them "bribes". And you will of course have seen the publication of 'LE MONDE' - I am tabling it in the Minutes - which makes us laugh at the privatisation of the Greek, as far as the price is concerned, at which you have plucked the best plot in Europe. These are not my comments, they are comments from 'LE MONDE'. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, presents for the Minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Have you taken measures to curb bureaucracy in this country? If you see from the World Competitive Report, bureaucracy is the second or third factor, which affects investment in the country and does not create an investment environment. So many years you've dealt with this subject, you've run verbally, we're always listening, we've all thought about it, this investment environment? I have invested in my office that started in 2006 as a request and we are in 2015 and still has not taken the basic permits to walk in such an investment process, depriving the country of seven thousand jobs! We have started this now, we are 'walking'. I'm not talking about smuggling. Half you predicted and half you hadn't predicted. Soon the relevant law will come to him to vote. Therefore, when we talk about some criticisms, it is good to see the essence of the critics and not what we have in mind and what we want to gather, baptizing "memorandum" or "non-memorandum" whoever you want. Especially when this is done by individuals who, when criticizing your government, were not just looking for voters but were not even political officials. It is simply in the context of their scientific work that they have been subject to fundamental criticism - as we are exercising fundamental criticism - on economic policy issues and on measures that you have forgotten. Here's your cowardice and the wrong strategy! Madam President, you have given me 15 minutes, you have reduced them to seven. I'll finish in a minute, because I was about to speak. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, I will give you some information relating to our budget and strategy: for the following year, we are preparing thirteen joint inter-ministerial committees, which I can say is a very satisfactory number, and we want to make ten Merchant Missions. We have also created an informal group of exporters, with the help of which we draw up policy measures for exporters. As far as investment is concerned, another policy is being pursued, where we are now approaching the businesses we want to target and which have not invested in the Balkans and Turkey and which we are after them to come to Greece. As far as exporters are concerned, we have already put in place tax measures which will favour them from now on and are fully compatible with the rules of the European Union. In the context of upgrading the website "Buy", in a few days' time - we have prepared it - one exporter will be able to see all the companies that can host Greek products, which, since they are produced in small quantities, can be of high quality and win expensive shops, since we cannot win supermarkets for large-scale products. We are 'avoiding' to Africa, as far as the country's exports and construction services are concerned, as we have been late to this continent, while others have taken the lead. Also, for the first time this year there will be three conferences - and these will be repeated every year - which will refer to the three economic and political areas in the region: one is the Black Sea, the other is the Arab countries and the third is the Balkans. We have contacted the relevant offices of universities, so that our students, as part of the program "ERASMUS PLUS", can practice in our embassies along with commercial and economic followers. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Finally, we have initiated another way of administering the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on economic diplomacy, so that we do not get to the point that we have already reached, that is, the Prime Minister on economic diplomacy to say other things, the Minister of Economy to say other things, the Minister of Foreign Affairs to say other things and the Enterprise Greece to say other things and to show all this policy that there is a government that does not communicate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Marda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Marda, you have served as president of the OPE. So, as you say in your last arguments, about your intentions, one can tell you - and I tell you - that we have hopes. You have the experience of moving forward. With regard to the great part of your speech, however, which was an attempt to justify what you said to "SKAI" a few days ago and which I had the opportunity to comment immediately after you because I had an interview on it, I say you have not said exactly what you said here. You were very memorial to the way in which you spoke, accusing previous governments. It's your business, though. That's not what the National Representation is about. But you raised four topics where you said, 'Here, what could have happened that we did not do.' First, corruption: How many and how many majority colleagues did they not say about confidence in Mr Nicoludis? You changed him, and no one yet knows why. Secondly, with regard to privatisation: do you, your Government, speak of privatisations that in the Greek particular case, Mr Minister, have you seen in the space that we have been able to experience spaces for possible establishment of migrants or refugees? For the entire Greek area, your area is being blamed for delays and inhibitions. Did you speed up any privatisations at airports, Minister? How do you do it? I'm closing up with the following: You're right about bureaucracy. I have often spoken as a Member here since 2012 on this subject. You, however, are now eleven months in many provisions of draft laws passed by the National Representation, adding, for the sake of supposedly institutional guarantees, further bureaucracy and increasing signatures. Invite now that you have begun the reverse course. But we see here, those who have been diligently watching for 11 months. And finally, in smuggling, which is a very hot subject, I beg your pardon, Minister, but tell me what action you have taken to limit it. Just say, "I have good intentions" and that for export matters, from the small corner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which does not affect - you will see this in practice - the overall government policy - is, however, a corner - you will try. I believe in you as intent. For the other four, you have 11 months to disprove you. He wants courage, Minister, to see me on this. And if you have a measure to say, please say so. I'm very kind to you. But you are also addressing us - the National Representation, that is - with examples, not intentionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I request the floor. I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u202	I'd say don't answer now, but in your dentistry, if you have goodness. Unless it's for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u203	Yeah, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u204	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u205	First of all, I think I was just as polite in my presentation. I don't think I'd exacerbate the tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u206	I didn't say that. You did it on the radio.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u207	And on the radio, I'm calm. You have seen me very rarely in this House raise my voice. I remember once only all the time. Secondly, with regard to what you have said, that we have the experience, I would like to say that we have both the knowledge and the experience so that we can direct the economic diplomacy of this country, since I have been dealing with these issues for over thirty years. I come to other issues, which have nothing to do with the Ministry's policy of extroversion. I referred to corruption in the period when you were, where the country was crumbling on the scale of corruption. I am referring to the term 'Treen', which I have used. The memorized text of my speech on SKAI that I have here and it's muddy, I'll present it to the House shortly. Therefore, you will also see the verbs that I use, because in general I pay attention to what I say, regardless of whether I have repeatedly said to the House, "Don't see newspaper titles, you can see the content." As regards privatisations: If you bring the Greek example, I think it is a failed example. 'MONDE' gives the answer. Let's get some more privatization to see ours. We in privatization want State involvement. This is not an unprecedented procedure. It is something that all countries are applying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u208	Have you done anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u209	They walk the ones they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u210	Oh, they're walking!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u211	I have been criticised - and I answered - for the 'implementation in letter'. This has nothing to do with what you and my dear colleague and others have said. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You just wanted to say it. As far as fuel smuggling is concerned, we may have been delayed a few months. Everything is ready and will be voted on. It's not much. We had prepared them at the General Accounting Office of the State very early, but the negotiation process came and cut our legislative work for two and a half months. He's been ready ever since. Some changes were made to the ministries and they needed some change - you know from administration - to adapt the new ministries to what we had written. They are ready and the final processing is done not by us, of course, but by the relevant Ministry. Three articles will come to your vote and then three joint ministerial decisions will be ready to close this issue of fuel smuggling. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, I have referred to the investment area. We are seeking six months - which is very much if we compare these six months with international standards - and not in ten years to have foreign investment approval, following best practices that you had to do since 2005 and not now that we have reached the point where we have arrived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u213	You didn't say about corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty students and students and five educational attendants from the 7th Municipal School of Egypt. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr. Starios Castoris, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, previous speakers, my colleagues from the SYRIZA, have given the signal of this new budget, of the effort we are making to get out of the crisis by keeping society up and putting people at the heart of our policy. This is evidenced both by the increase in social costs and by the fact that revenues are trying to get from those who have, from those who are able to pay, by facilitating those who cannot. I, as a new Member - the first time I have taken the floor here on this - would like to make some remarks. I note, Mr President, that some in this Chamber do not understand that for decades, with their politics, they were tearing down and tearing down this place and when they left or rather when the Greek people kicked them out, they left behind ruins and rotten materials from which the country cannot be rebuilt. Some in this Chamber do not understand that what they left behind is a black hole. Black holes in insurance, industrial relations, public education, public health, in every productive and creative sector. So we urgently need to close these black holes so that the place can breathe again. And they have the courage, those responsible for the destruction, to come as settlers, as healers, to swing the finger on the government, to come and make a speech without any shame and to blame us for wanting to cut off pensions. They call those who have been robbing the insurance funds for decades, who played them on the stock exchange, and they finally “cut them” from above. They call out to those who kept in their drawers or ignored the lists of big-growers, those who gave seafood to themselves, but also to friends and who made sure in this House that they made decisions on their impunity. Uh, well, we're telling you that you've been hammered by even the most unscrupulous. This logic of "speaking the thief to fear the housekeeper", has been taken over and those who, misled, have followed you in the last election as well. Despite the pitiful efforts of the systemic media, your neoliberalized political society can and can see what is behind your destructive rhetoric and is not pinching. It doesn't sting in the fear you want to spread. Why? Because she's afraid of you more. Because society is more afraid of those who served and continue to serve the few toward the many. I'm listening to Officer Opposition officials telling us that's all right, that's all. It is not a question of what we have done in the past - after all, we have paid for it - but the question of what you are going to do now. The point, ladies and gentlemen, is that what you have done in the past will continue to pay for many years, even us and our children. The point is that, unfortunately, we have not come to an end to your catastrophic effects of decades of government. The point is, it takes a lot of work to get this country back on her feet. He wants patience, he needs perseverance, but mostly wants a different course. He wants a course to the left, he wants a course away from neoliberalism. He wants to fight corruption first and foremost. It wants a strong social state, it wants a radical change in the model of the economy, it wants protection and support for work, it wants protection of society and the social goods of public property. He wants social justice, but most importantly he wants democracy. It wants these things that only one SYRIZA government, a left-wing government, can guarantee. And this budget is the first step, the first step in this direction. The current government is not a sowing of fate, it is a ‘ mature child of the need and a mature child of rage’, said our great poet Varnalis. And it cannot be a parenthesis. Instead, it's a new beginning, it's a different beginning for our place. This hopeful prospect, no matter how difficult it is, wins daily bonuses in society, in the low and middle strata that can now hope and expect in a brighter future. This budget, although it is not the budget we would like it to be, is nonetheless a project on which the government can rely to start this new course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Castaris Asteris, SYRIZA MP. Mr Katsaniotis Andreas has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in December 2015. We are close to the closure of a year since Mr Tsipras' left-wing government became a reality. We are at a time when citizens can now make comparisons and understand that the hope SYRIZA said was coming was nothing but a lie and a terrible nightmare. And the greatest proof is the budget that we are debating today in the House. The first budget of the left government, which breaks down all the myths of so-called progression and social justice promised by SYRIZA. A budget of recession, unbearable taxation and the scanning of everything, which highlights the inability and idealism of the Left. Perhaps the only good thing is the possibility of comparing the Greeks and Greeks, a comparison of where the Samara government left the country and where it is today. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, and let all the Greeks remember where we were about a year ago. Greece, in November 2014, was an economy that had returned to growth after six years of recession. In fact, according to the European Statistical Office, the third quarter of 2014 had noted the highest growth rate among the euro area countries. In addition, last year Greece confirmed for the second consecutive year the primary surplus and indeed the International Monetary Fund placed our country at the top of the fiscal adjustment position in the world, noting in its report that Greece had "the biggest cyclically adjusted primary surplus". All these achievements of the previous government, although they had obviously not been able to be understood in the daily life of the Greeks, were nevertheless beginning to give the first results. Unemployment for the first time had a steady decline. Moreover, a bottom of the barrel of taxation had already been laid, and the burden was now being placed on development measures, investment, deprivation, so that through the production of new wealth the cycle of a healthy economy would begin again. I would remind you that a year ago the Grexit was erased by world dictionaries. No one questioned the country's great effort and the government at that time discussed with Europeans the so-called preventive support line. And we were able to start over. And Mr Tsipras managed to put an end to this principle by taking advantage of the great demand for consensus a year before the election of the President of the Republic. And it was not an end to the Samara government, it was unfortunately the waste of the sacrifices and labors of the Greeks. An end that brought the 'Soibble Plan' to the horizon and doubted the European perspective of the country. A fee with Capital Controls, with plans for new recapitalisation of banks, discussion and changes in VAT and the addition of other taxes. Of course, because the current government is losing against a state in this comparison, it is trying to shift the time of comparison and its usual practice to disorientate. She tries to compare her own things with her mistakes and omissions of decades. And, in any case, let him understand that it is not up to her to set the limits of comparison. These limits are set by logic, by the public. The citizen compares last year with the 'where I was yesterday' and 'where I am today'. That's what logic says. And the logic, no matter how much the government wants, cannot distort it. So here we are, in front of the first existing budget of the left government, an undeveloping and socially unfair budget that restores the Greek economy to the dawn. The deficits are coming back. The austerity is increased by at least EUR 6 billion by the end of 2016, as is the public's late payments to the public but also public debt to private individuals. In addition, the left government, which brought social justice to an end and putting an end to the memorials, is increasing everything. VAT, income tax, solidarity levy, insurance premiums, contributions, agricultural oil. And there are still a number of measures that have not been clarified or quantified. Who knows what else awaits citizens from a government consistent with the logic of increasing taxes, sharing poverty and promises? Because, to be honest, the increase in taxes and the effort to equate all citizens down is indeed a left-wing policy. In this respect, the current government is consistent in its ideology. He's also consistent with lies. Do you remember that promise of a thirteenth pension? He's gone now, along with all the lies of the Thessaloniki program. And, of course, the budget has no developmental dimension. At this level, the ideological abhorrence of the Left in the production of new wealth meets incompetence and absolute ignorance, even as to the obligations the government has undertaken in respect of the new memorandum signed. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In view of all this, ladies and gentlemen, the new budget is not a budget, it is a revelation, the absolute revelation of the huge unjust costs already paid by the country by Mr Tsipras' policy and the revelation of a backward path. I am extremely pessimistic about the fate of the country in the hands of this government. And I think that the same pessimistic is now the citizens, who feel cheated and have begun to express their anger by very quickly removing their trust from Mr Tsipras and his company. In fact, I think it is not too far away when this government will be forced to hand over power at the expense of the great problems it will accumulate in the country. The same has happened in every country that had left-hand governance, because in history there has never been left-wing governance that has created growth and increased GDP to minimize debts in one country. The left recipe is known: Poverty for all! This recipe, however, won't last much longer in this place. And then, again, the great burdens will be called upon to take on those who believe in the production of wealth, the development of the private sector and the free economy, those who really believe in the values and ideals of the free world, the Western world. It is not premature to say this: this budget, as a crown of what we have lived since last January, is the best proof that this left-wing government will indeed remain in the history of the country as a big black spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr Katsaniotis Andreas, Member of the New Democracy. Mrs Maria Triantafyllou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is undoubtedly a very important element for every government. It writes and captures not only its designs and objectives, but also the environment that is being prepared in both the country and internationally. And inevitably writes and captures anything negative it preceded. What does that mean? That there's no way to change, so we're talking a one-way thing? No way. However, options must be defined each time and options investigated. What kind of budget is it that is being tabled today? It's not a left budget. And he couldn't be. Because even if the Left had an absolute majority in this House, the absolute parliamentary relation, a truly left budget would still not be tabled easily. He needs something else for that. It needs a mobilised people to touch and salt the centres of power. And that's what someone has to organize. Identity and symbols are very important. But the huge weakness in mass work, traditional and identifiable for the Left, is the answer to why they change so hard or the connections don't change. So, as Mr Vorides said, the budget, not as he said, is bad for SYRIZA, but bad for what was before it, but, of course, for the direction adopted by SYRIZA to be balanced and not to give up. Because I will vote for the budget, I could say that it has a social sign, it is not neutral and it is financially balanced. I could say that. But I won't say it, because it won't be the truth. It won't be the whole truth. There may be more money for health and for the first time after five years, but the unthinkable shortcomings in nursing establishments remain. The grant may be increased in hospitals by EUR 300 million and in the Procurement Committee by EUR 36 million, but a great deal still needs to be done to prevent their operational collapse. The strategic choice and the will of the government to defend public health is important. In education, despite the truly ambitious efforts to fill gaps - several gaps have been covered this year - despite most appointments, there are still gaps and many problems. There have been and there have been positive elements and even more positive intentions, such as the relaunch of strengthening teaching. But it's really like putting a cigarette on a mutilated man who's bleeding unrelatedly. Strategic selection - important here too - is the decision and the will to support public education. However, demand remains for equal access to education. I could say that public investment is increasing by 350 million euros. After many years the investment programme has increased even a little. Also, overdue debts are being reduced. However, the implementation of productive reconstruction remains an undeniable necessity. Finally, it is important that inappropriate budgets are not tabled. However, there are signs of enormous attention: the fight against unemployment - it is a matter of demand - the issues of taxation - a fairer distribution of burdens - to avoid overtaxation in micro-enterprises that are narrowed by chronic tax raids and recession, to fight corruption. The budget is submitted to an international environment which is chaotic and dangerous in our neighborhood. The Mediterranean is on fire. The Aegean is at the centre of the refugee situation as a result of the Syrian war. It is a huge issue that there should not be any caging of refugee flows, not only to prevent our country from becoming a human landfill, but also because it is a dead end and an inhumane one. The fact of world interest is the undeclared military but a proclaimed economic war in Russia towards Turkey. There is a deepening of the European crisis. The crisis internationally overnight is turning into a military crisis, with the special features that we see taking, such as the dissolution and humiliation of the Mediterranean states, blind hits at the metropolitan centres of imperialist states, the bombing in Paris. Hazardous real landscape! But when you export 'democracy' - in many introductory words, in fact - you will receive terrorism, although in time - and it must be heard - terrorism is being expelled from specific centres. ‘Liberty fighters’ called them Mujahedin in Afghanistan, then they became Taliban. And, of course, their difference with the United States became the ticket for imperialist invasions and rights strikes. And now ISIS. With a lot of birds. The question is that there should not be any concessions to our sovereign rights because of debt and budgets. The demand is the balance between the country's obligations, signatures and decisions that have been taken, our participation in the European Union and NATO and the Greek interests themselves. Foreign policy must serve the people's and national interests. The first priority within the country remains productive reconstruction and, of course, the humanitarian crisis. There is political liquidity and unprecedented post-government shocks mainly in the field of Officerial Response. This, in my opinion, is not due to the inner-party elections or to the technical problem that has been experienced in the electoral process, but to the avoidance of the recognition and sincere speech of the reasons for the election - and not only - of the defeat of the Officerial Response. In addition, the PASOK must stop the joke that it is all because of SYRIZA, not because no one is convinced, but because - in simple words - it is tiring and that there is no way a substantial dialogue on the long historical time that we have not before us, but behind us and the wings to teach us. Finally, I think that the main issue of today's social and political reality is not the tolerance - those who are intertwining in my view - to the government of SYRIZA, but the expectation - of the majority of the citizens and, above all, the progressive forces of society - to draw up and express a credible path of the country from the crisis with its people and its Government, alongside them. I think that in this struggle and in the various expressions it takes every time, all the parliamentary forces were invited by SYRIZA to contribute to the 'no' of the referendum, with a common political front not for a break with the European Union, but for the construction of the first national empire within the European Union against austerity. And recently, in the conditions described above, the Prime Minister called on the common front for the refugee, as well as the rescue and armoring for the new generations of the country's insurance system. In this context, you are invited to contribute and see the budget currently submitted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. You can see him and judge him as a budget coming under the blunt agreement with the partners, confront the humanitarian crisis in the country, promote the productive reconstruction of the economy, promote those necessary steps to regain our national sovereignty. In this effort we should all be directed and stopped lending, increasing the debt and consuming only what we can produce at national level. We do not say 'no' to investments that may be in agreement with the above. The demand for their debt negotiation opens in 2016, which needs to find us prepared not only with arguments, but for a negotiation with society and the economy on standby. Finally, I would like to say this: everyone has to make self-criticism. It's his right to make self-criticism. We have the greatest task of not depriving the view and effort that there is another, alternative path.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u220	Thank you Mrs Maria Triantafyllou, SYRIZA Member. The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, now has the floor. Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with a correction. We are not here today by a vindication of Mr Tsipras' desire to become Prime Minister, but by a decision of the Greek people, which you must at last respect when you talk about this issue, if we want to talk about democracy. I am not an economist, so I will have the privilege and joy of speaking as a simple citizen who knows mere practical arithmetic. First of all, I should like to begin by comparing what we compare, because in six respects we compare the wishes and wishes and promises without a reflection on reality. And that's what's going on with the budgets. I start with what happened in '14 and '15. I hear, for example, the triumph for this famous 0.8% increase in GDP. And of course I hear the even greater triumph for the 2.9% increase that would come, while evil SYRIZA did not bring it. So let us see these two figures on which they have been qualitatively supported, ladies and gentlemen. Did they rely on industrial development? Did they rely on innovations? Did they rely on exports? I would remind you that the memorandum provided - your memorandum - an increase in the export balance - imports by 6%. Only 1.6% we had within 2014, this poor 1.6% that didn't come from a substantial increase in exports, but because the world had no money to buy, so it didn't buy imported. Are we talking about revival of the countryside? So, where's this magical number based, that you guys managed to get the economy to recover? Let me tell you where it's based. We have a deflation of 2.6%, we have 1.3% increase in consumption and there there is a 28.3% increase in armaments in the past few months. So it's a prosperous number, but a substance of productive reconstruction zero! Do we have an increase in the green economy? All over Europe, it is galloping. In Greece we have seen nothing about your days. And - most importantly - when we talk about pillars of the economy we have here the tax system. It is a Memorandum commitment to change the tax system. Zero. Nothing. Don't hurt our customers! And they all say about the PSI and the structure. May I remind you that the funds, all the reserves, entered at zero interest rate in the Bank of Greece since the 1960s? And get us the numbers. Since when did the funds cease to have reserves when the IKA in the 1970s borrowed 23% and its own reserves were locked in the Bank of Greece with 0%? So tell me what the fund reserve was? Did you solve this problem when you had the government or now just - I'm really sorry to say the word football - 'bought'? And here we are talking about the famous third quarter. Fourth quarter had it in 2014? 'The third quarter and the third quarter'. Let me tell you what was in the fourth quarter. He had the fifth evaluation, which never came. Markets have again begun to panic, the economic problem has begun again and the spectre of collapse has come. So this came in the fourth quarter and you're looking at the betting indicators for Greece's bankruptcy how suddenly from August to December they're bragging, ladies and gentlemen. So, in December of '14, when the partners broke down the success story and never made the evaluation, your account comes the word for the economy that recovers, but in practice the people's account is very simple. Firstly, the economy did not know any growth and continued to collapse and the ghost there in November of the collapse now - because we did not enter into an agreement and you knew - quickly came for December. So what did you do? You have speeded up, to escape, the elections of the President of the Republic by two months. You took that extension, without a promise, two months to shut the collapse of the economy, just as Mr Shoeble planned, in February 2015 at the hands of the new government, whatever it was. That was the reality. That's the people's account. The people's account is that our economy would have collapsed, we would have been out of agreement in February 2015. This is the harsh reality and you cannot say anything about it. You should finally decide what policy you will follow. Will you follow the policy of the hard people's opposition? It's a policy. So you must imitate and say that since others have been blaming us so long, we should do the same if we look at a white party day, it is a policy. I warn you that the Greek people do not have such a shallow memory. As long as the situation remains in the mess that our country finds, on the limit of the collapse, with Mr Soible continuing to work on Grexit scripts and all the lobby of drachma in Brussels, which, of course, makes it very convenient for them to break down the currency of Greece in spite of our economy, they are very convenient for the tragic poverty of the Greek people, if they really buy vital goods imported into a devalued currency and inflation to rob, finally decide whether you want to be with this policy and simply accuse the government of an unprecedented opposition or if you want to contribute - your right - to changing the course of this country. You have that right. And I honestly tell you that I am not personally concerned at all if the parliamentary majority is fifty-three, fifty-four or fifty-five. Tens of favoured countries have been governed for decades without an absolute majority, which is an obsession and a fencing of the Greek political system. I would remind you that as the United States in crisis, when LEHMAN BROTHERS collapsed, the Polson bill on support for banks was voted against by the government majority in a block and voted only by the Democrats. Nothing happened to the American economy because a parliament has leaks to a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u222	They have no parliamentary power in the United States. It's a different political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u223	I have said many times, my dear, that the interruption that I do not embrace, all it does is show whoever is interrupting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u224	You're wrong, because I talked to you differently. Otherwise, I referred to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u225	I would also remind you that the Mitsotakis Government, which has consistently ruled three whole years with a hundred and fifty a Member of Parliament, has not collapsed from Opposition or from the crowns. He collapsed from Mr. Samara's internal opposition. So don’t expect us to seek consent because we feel weak. Just consensus is useful for our country. It's useful and try to be useful and not say good-bye to join Mr. Shoeble. And here we go for tomorrow, and I ask the ordinary citizen very simply. What does the ordinary citizen prefer? A budget based on a 2.9% development that never comes or a budget based on unfavourable conditions for which we will strive to overturn? You are talking about the recession in the new budget. Yeah, I prefer it. While I was on the market, I preferred to draw up budgets for my own business with unfavourable scenarios, so that if the favorable good comes, but if the adverse ones arise, I can also give 300 million for the hospitals and not leave people on the street. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] One more minute, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And of course, because we are not professional politicians here, but we were born by the movements, I want tomorrow on the road and today hundreds of thousands of people to support a demand for a fairer society. Yes, I want people to come out and pressure the governments. This is the task of the citizens, that is the task of society. Yes, I want the Greek that sold beer rather than what was sold? Because this 2% we will pay for it, to get in ten years the 900 million that the alleged investor is supposed to give us - I want over ten - twenty thousand citizens - I wish we could - to stop such crimes and allegedly privatizations. And to close, I'll bring just one example, because time won't allow me to do it from my Ministry. We'll talk again with numbers. We have the circular economy all over the planet, in which nothing is thrown away, there is no waste. According to the new National Waste Management Plan, therefore, the cyclical economy will bring a turnover of 2 billion and 16 thousand new jobs. These are numbers. But these 2 billion is not a question of whether it is two or three or four. The question is: will they come to the citizens' pocket? Is it gonna be work? Is it going to be a couple? Or, as in the old plan of the linear economy, I'm producing, I'm drinking, I'm throwing gold away, and I'm paying the big-timers to get the rubbish to wipe it out in HYTY? Because the second model may have numbers and possibly bigger numbers. But the point is: in the second model, where money goes into a few pockets, gives prosperity to the population, gives jobs, or does it not give? So let's look at quality, not quantity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u227	What about, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u228	Private staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u229	For a minute, you have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u230	Minister, maybe you didn't hear me. Don't smile. I had no reason to interrupt you to what you were saying. You have just referred to an example of a country which has another state in which the declared State does not exist, there is no relationship between legislative and executive authority in the sense that the executive must enjoy the confidence of the legislative authority. So what you mentioned in voting against a draft law by one of the two legislative bodies or by Congress is day-to-day practice. You mentioned the wrong example, and I just stressed the diversity of the culture. If this in your assessment shows a problem of conduct by the speaker - 'it is your issue and your treatment', as you said - I return it, and I ask you very much to be less arrogant and very careful when you refer to a Chamber in which you are appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u232	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u233	I had no intention of insulting you, Mr President. I'm just pointing out that I'm not used to interrupting and I can't stand being interrupted. As far as the other city is concerned, we'd better talk about our own civilization. So to our citizens the motion of censure requires a hundred and fifty one. If you have them - they are welcome - come to the Chamber tomorrow and testify to her. And the proclaimed one - if I remember well, without being a constitutionalist - requires a hundred and twenty. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u234	The minimum limit is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u235	We with closed banks and a tough negotiation that resulted in this agreement, which we admit is not what we wanted, we dared - precisely for that reason - and we issued elections immediately and the Greek people decided two months ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u236	So what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u237	And so it is up to you if you want to help change the country or if you want to rock.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u238	Don't have a dialogue, please. The speaker of the Democratic Association and Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, the question that needs to be answered, ladies and gentlemen, is whether this budget leads to growth or to a recession. As you know, the budget is obliged to move within the framework of the third memorandum. Besides, this is self-evident, because otherwise it would not be accepted by the troika. And when the budget is not accepted by the troika, the instalments of billions are automatically stopped and the country is doomed without them, sooner or later, to go bankrupt. So no matter what the government says about reductions in pensions, when this budget cuts the state subsidy to the funds, the insurance agencies, this translates into a reduction in pensions, regardless of whether the reduction concerns the high pensioners or all pensioners. This is on page 42 of the budget, if I'm not mistaken. Unfortunately, it is a budget that is not developmental. It is material, i.e. it does not include serious incentives for investment that attracts investors. It does not include incentives depending on the incentives that investors have to invest in our neighbouring countries, Skopje, Bulgaria, Turkey. Because everyone is known that the investor does not invest unless he finds that there is political stability in that country, that there is a stable development law and that there is a stable tax regime. They are laws which make it easier for the investor to invest quickly, without bureaucracy, with very low taxation. That is what our neighbouring countries offer. But all this is guaranteed only by political stability. Political stability, however, is not guaranteed by a simple majority of Members in the House, namely the number of few or many Members. It is only ensured that opposition parties when they come to power will not overthrow the development or tax regime that the government will impose. Simple consensus in the words, which the Prime Minister is currently seeking, is not enough and convincing, not for us, but for investors or lenders. They are clearly calling for a government of a wide-ranging coalition with all the parties of the so-called European arc, simply to be sure of their investments. Besides - to tell him right - how can an investor be persuaded and believe that he will not lose his money when a country is governed by a government which, within the same year, makes elections with other programme statements in January and others in September? Is the investor coming? How is it possible for the investor to invest in a country where the opposition is aggregated to challenge the Prime Minister's credibility because - as he claims - of his old age? How can the investor believe that he will not lose his money when the banks are under capital control and their depositors have withdrawn 40 billion in the first six months why do they not trust them? Since their depositors don't trust them, will other depositors come to trust them? And I directly ask all of us, ladies and gentlemen: would you ever invest your savings in such a country, fantasy, of such standards, if you had any money? I do not want to be a veteran of evil, but in 2010 from this position - and those who were MPs will remember - I asked the then Prime Minister, Mr Papandreou, who had a very clear, homogeneous majority in Parliament and a popular basis in 44% - not a coalition of parties - to go to a government of a broad coalition to deal with the crisis. No one's paid any attention to the Minutes. After six months the Prime Minister himself sought a solution through the coalition. And then Mr Samaras gave his consent after he asked him to leave the Prime Minister himself. He had the majority, the one declared in the House, and he left. This, of course, is an example. Unfortunately, we are in the same situation, if not at a worse time today, with the country in a terrible economic situation, with a huge debt that is still growing today. Mr. Papandreou then lost a unique opportunity. Mr Tsipras has so far lost two chances to lead such a broad coalition government, one after the January elections and one after the September elections. In January he named his government "Government of Social Rescue". Today the same government of national salvation must seek to avoid what Mr Papandreou did not avoid in 2010. Today he stands together as a left party with a small party calling himself a right-wing party, without any ideological affinity between them. Proof? The vote on the bill on citizenship and the amendment on the famous mosque in Athens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, shortly. Without the help of counterpopulation, these laws wouldn't pass. There was no majority. Did the Prime Minister expect investors to come and invest? And if the economic situation deteriorates - which is evident in the horizon - will the Prime Minister not have lost his credibility to lead at the time a vast coalition of the pro-European data that he should have sought for him? Will the opposition parties then accept Mr. Tsipras, or will they ask for what Mr. Samaras has requested from Mr. Papandreou, in other words for his replacement? I don't wish that. Now, how the Prime Minister, who asks the political leaders for consensus, speaks to his parliamentary group, recalls an Arab proverb that says "dogs scream, but caravan goes on", is worthy of wonder. Who means dogs? How will a consensus be reached with the 'dogs'? But the caravan does not go any further, Prime Minister. I wish, but the country doesn't go any further. Unfortunately, only the country's problems are going on. The country needs real consensus, with government by experienced and proven effective ministers, who can only take the country out of today's deadlock with their seriousness and experience. It's time to refresh!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr Cremastino, Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Democratic Association. Before moving on to the next speaker, the Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u241	Mr Colleague, for what you have just said, I wanted to share with you a concern I have. And the concern, as you know, is always about the future of social democracy. I was very worried about what you said about taxes. I think that if social democracy is to return to its roots, what you said, there are lower taxes, such as in Albania and Bulgaria, it is not a good basis for that. And we need to discuss this seriously. I don't do it for controversy. I think that the position should be that, if there are to be investment, it is not the low taxes that are the most important condition for investors, but a stable system. There are many reasons why this is true. Also, that you, through European social democracy, must press on to the point where competition plays a role in this tax system to stop at the supranational level, that is, at the level of the European Union. Otherwise social democracy and the left will constantly be forced to reduce taxes, and this will always lead to a slowdown in the social state. So it is not a basis for us to continue to argue that we should not have taxes, because others have fewer taxes than us. I can accept that the New Democracy can accept it, because the reason for their existence is to shrink the social state and reduce wages, but it makes me sad and worrying when representatives of social democracy make an argument that will create us - both to you and to the entire progressive world in Europe - very big problems in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u245	I have first said from the position you are, Mr President, that the ministers should not ask the Members questions - Mr Mandas laughs - why they are forced to go out and answer them. I've said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u246	And from a New Democracy position!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u247	Yes, because I was talking to Mr. Theonas, and the Minister addressed me with the floor, and I stayed here. That's the answer. But what I mean to say is that, in the first place, if we were in an amphitheatre, I would have totally agreed with you. When I see and know that, for example, Turkey has given all its shores, when it has not had any tourism, to German and Swiss companies, with almost zero taxation, only to employ and train the world, and today it has tripled its tourism in relation to us, two and a half times and three times, this is a reluctance to think about the amphitheatre and social democracy. Because, unfortunately, all states do not have the same citizens. I wish they had it. I would agree with you, and I agree with you. In practice, however, when we see and when you see that the country's economy is being enclosed right now - I will invoke my medical knowledge - you are giving any medicine, even though it may have side effects. But this is your government's issue to decide. I have no intention of disagreeing with you on the theoretical basis. But in practice too, it is a matter of reflection. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Stylis Georgios, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to restore the position of the New Democracy and the reason for its existence, and that is why I shall make a reference. Minister, the reason for our existence is to increase production in the country and the wealth produced so that we can redistribute more social dividends. That is why we are trying and will continue to try. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the first budget of the euphemism 'Government of Social Responsibility and Responsibility'. I really want to ask why this year's budget should be voted on? Who's he satisfying? To what will it improve the quality of our lives? Is a plan coming out of the crisis, a better perspective for tomorrow? Ladies and gentlemen, the country returned to the recession in the second half of 2015 with estimates of worse results, when you received recovery +0.8% in 2014. The country returns to primary deficits. The government of “I do not pay” has declared an internal private sector payment stop, increasing dues by 58% since 2014. "Social Salvation Government" cuts costs of over 2 billion euros for pension cuts and social benefits. The Left Government, which would put an end to austerity, is expected to collect EUR 5.7 billion from additional taxes in the next two years 2015-2016. And why is this all happening, ladies and gentlemen? What did the Greek people gain from the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict? Where did we meet a year ago? Remember the framework in which the debate took place last year at the same time. The country, according to international organisations, had a positive mark on the majority of indicators. The market had found its pace and better prospects were opened before us. But is this year's budget a roadmap from the crisis and the memorandum? What's your plan for the next day? How will the country go back to development? And what development? You promised just two months ago, in the elections, a parallel programme for the Greek people. What's his content? How much will it cost? No one knows, because it just doesn't exist. Ladies and gentlemen, we must invest in the particular features of the different regions of our country, highlight and strengthen the comparative advantages of the Greek region. I have spoken many times from this Step for a multipolar multicentre development model. Let me give an example: In my home country, Arta and Epirus in general, one of our comparative advantages is primary production, the agri-food sector of the economy. We need a policy of boosting production with new products, by applying innovative methods, to target quality, in order to give new momentum to our country, to give incentives, to turn to the outward sectors of the economy. How does the government work for its part? It imposes a 100% tax advance on farmers, without anyone knowing how next year will go. It imposes an increase in VAT on agricultural products of 23% when VAT on imported products remains 13%. We are abolishing the discount on agricultural oil, increasing the rates of income tax on agricultural incomes by 20% for 2015 and 26% for 2016 and, finally, the tripling of the OGA insurance contributions. In another area, in education, you are starting a huge dialogue when the gaps in school today, in December, when the school year has begun in September, is too much. Public IEKs for the first time open two months late and risk losing their six-month period in accordance with the legislation. Answer convincingly I have not received from the government. The student transfer, according to the Ministry of Education communication, will be completed in the second semester of the current academic year, so 2016. So in the first six months the candidates for relocations are missing. In another area, in the new ESRB, according to your own information, there will be a burden on the national part of the Public Investment Programme by EUR 1.7 billion from the projects for the period 2007-2013 which have not been completed up to 31-12-2015, given the suffocation of funding the previous period that established the projects. No action has been launched by the new ESDP, while programmes have been approved since December 2014. This means that no money will be given to small and medium-sized enterprises before the end of 2016. The reasons are the culmination of ministerial decisions and circulars, the failure to deal with administrative and technical outstandings, with the consequence that the programmes will be postponed when - I remind you - the European Commission approved the Greek programme in May 2014. In a year of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, the account includes incompetence, indifference, oligoria, inefficiency, amateurism, arrogance, complacency and communication games, tricks in the House with laws that are passed and according to the government will not be implemented, but only done to make fun of our partners. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is 'a shirt empty'. There is no structured overall policy. He's driving nowhere. He's inapplicable and incomplete. We are voting in principle and as a whole against the 2016 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr Stylian Georgios, Member of the New Democracy. Next, SYRIZA MEP Vakis Fotini for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a ghost began to be misled above the Greek Parliament, the ghost of the worst, worst-popular, most anti-developing budget by the mouth of Officer Response, a "yes" officer from "yes" to "yes" has gone to "no to everything", citing Parliament's most anti-monetary power and the genuine expressor and guardian of popular needs and interests. Ladies and gentlemen, yes to Europe, we have said. Our 'yes', however, is 'yes' in the Europe of the social state, in the Europe of democracy and development. It is 'yes' in Europe, which does not uphold walls at work and the dignity of the citizen. He doesn't uproot walls on the refugee. Your 'yes' in Europe, the danger and the axes to a government that fought and strives to negotiate, was 'yes' to everything. It was equivalent to the 45% primary surplus death cocktail by 0.5% achieved by the current government, but it was also equivalent to 40% reductions in wages and pensions, with a work reserve and collective redundancies. Is that why you sanctified the national consensus at the meeting of the political leaders on very critical issues that would become a very powerful negotiating weapon? The 'yes', however, was equivalent to 25% of GDP in the time of peace. It was equivalent to human bones that gave flesh and bone to the term 'humanist crisis'. At the same time, it was tantamount to a looting of the insurance funds, for which you are now grieving with a lot of courage and hypocrisy, as well as with the anonymous lists. If you decided to disguise and memorize financial crimes by taking them into office drawers and elbows, the current government on 27 November delivered the Rhineland-Westphalia list directly to the financial prosecutors. Why did the October 2015 revenues in relation to those in October 2014 go up by EUR 714 million? Why have forecasts for a recession been disproved for 2.5% and the year ended almost with a zero recession? Ladies and gentlemen, the budget to be voted bears a triple print. On the one hand, it records the negative indicators of a country plundered and seated by the dogma of recession and austerity of the previous years. On the other hand, within a difficult financial framework, it leaves a left footprint of social justice and class partitioning. In a society, of course, which still heals its wounds, no one has the right to celebrate and it would be at least morally irreplaceable to reproduce succes stores. However, this suffocating cord provides for an increase in health expenditure of EUR 300 million that will allow all uninsured people to be covered, because behind the statistics and indicators there are human ruins and life-threatening ones. Expenditure is intended to address the humanitarian crisis, the minimum guaranteed income at national level and the provision of social solidarity allowance to uninsured over-ages. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is a station following the first assessment and the recent recapitalisation. The recapitalisation and the first assessment are not dictated by our sudden love and attraction to the financial system. We didn't become happily neoliberal tools, but exactly the opposite. They are the guides that lead to the destination. They are the tools that will give flesh and bones to the write-down of debt and to a 21st-century development vision of the left of the 21st century, to restart a productive and not a parasitic model of economy. The problem is not only to increase demand, but also to increase investment as a term of growth and job creation. The expenditure of the 2016 Public Investment Programme is projected to increase by 5.2% compared with 2015. This is the presumption of the Government's intentions to implement a development vision. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Finally, this budget is called upon to balance between the unscrupulous financial architecture of the Eurozone and the possibility of exercising a social policy. The present government has not resorted to annoying automation that has blamed all the responsibilities on our people. It has never discharged the European Union's current policy. Our success story was 'yes' not 'yes', because we are to blame for everything. Without inhibiting serious - serious - responsibilities of more than 40 years of domestic governments' sufferings, only the current government has put out a risk signal in today's Europe, a Europe that increases social inequalities and reduces democracy. Only this government put out smoke signals and animal analgesics, became a laboratory for another policy by putting in guides that are now being followed by other countries. How did he do that? He did so by engaging in a mutant social democracy that fell into a pig of the hardest neoliberal policies and played a role in the fight for another Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a minute, please, Mr President. If the example of Portugal and the change of leadership of the English Labour Party do not concern some of you, then you should regain your role. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a time when you have to decide who you're going to go and who you're going to leave. We have assumed our responsibilities. We didn't escape at the elephant tower of ideology. We have remained in the battlefield, in the battle for the change of traverses and correlations in Europe. It's time for you to decide, too, unless you've already decided to be with those who stand walls on the refugees, with those who put wires in the world of work and solidarity and those who wanted to show SYRIZA's body to Podemos. It's your decisions. Decide and assume your responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u252	Thank you to Mrs Vakis Fotini, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Ioannis Antoniadis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. First of all, by listening to Mr Tsironi for nine minutes, I honestly wondered who is government and who is opposition. For nine minutes he traveled us to the '60s, '40s. Start with wishes, end with wishes. He did not make a single proposal, and all he had done for nine minutes was to oppose opposition to opposition. He obviously didn't realize he was a government. Listening to Mr Tsakalotos, he also confirms what all the liberals say, that the economy is a very serious case to leave it in the hands of the left. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is a top act, a top issue, is the mirror of all the issues. I'll start by highlighting two major successes of the government. After many years and efforts by the government, the funds for Turkey's accession process have finally been unblocked! He needed a lot of trouble. Today Turkey is triumphant because this unblocking took place, without giving a single consideration to the issue of Cyprus. The second major success was the issue of immigration. Do you remember this famous popular "how much is a dish of food cost?" Like we're talking about a dish of food. I will tell the Prime Minister that it costs EUR 3 billion. That's what Turkey took. If we estimate that they are fifty or a hundred thousand who pass, they are about two hundred thousand three times three a day, for a month only two million dishes of food are two million blankets, they are the drugs, they are everything. The Prime Minister has raised this issue on his political dimension that he is European, on his social dimension he is European, on his humanitarian dimension is European but on the economic dimension, since nothing is costed, it is Greek, charging the costs to the Greeks who are starving. Is it possible to make foreign policy with twitters? What's the point of the Prime Minister's twitter to his Turkish counterpart? If it were correct what the Prime Minister said, then it was a national defeat that he deleted it the day after Mr Davotouglou's protests. If it's not right and he realized it's wrong, is it possible to write something under the state of an emotional charge and then take it back? Whatever it was, it's epilepsy and it causes national damage. That is all, ladies and gentlemen, reminiscent of baroque tactics and attitudes. Varoufakis is gone, live the new Varoufakis! This one again for the elections in 1919? It could be the shortest joke unless it meant elections on 19 March 1916 or on 19 April 16. Another very serious issue was the insurance, to which the Prime Minister requested consent. I wonder: If all the parties consented to the Prime Minister, would pensioners save pension cuts? If all the parties consented to the issue of education, would new teachers automatically be appointed, would they be appointed new doctors? So the problem is not consensus on all these issues. My own proposal, which I now table and written in the Minutes, is that this country only needs consensus on one issue: economy - growth. There must be an intergroup accompanied by a committee of wise men. There is a need for consensus and universality, for new wealth to be produced. And once a new wealth is produced, and the issue of health is resolved, the issue of education and defence and welfare benefits. How, ladies and gentlemen, when the SYRIZA Government is an enemy of private initiative and business? You're the ones who feed red tape. And I am always referring to the government, ladies and gentlemen, to be clear - and not to fellow Members. You have, gentlemen of the government, bureaucracy in public administration, justice. The archaeology and the forest office, you support them in dissatisfiing citizens and not being partners themselves. What are you talking about? Mr. Mardas was here. In the restaurant, in which we eat here in the House, there's no machine to get the tab in. Beside us! You know how much the MPs need the cash. At the national level we have for the service of MPs, to pay the rent - a accounting change will take place - you wait half an hour. What progress is being made and how will this progress be? Mr. Mardas is gone. It was historical and it has great truths: "The previous governments were cowards, because they did not apply all the memorials. We hope that the present ones will implement them.' Very soon I'm going to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget - because we are North-West and are interested - provides for a reduction in the heating allowance. You know what the drama is for Florina and all the northern regions. Reductions in pensions of 1,8 billion euros. You have been talking for three years about four and a half million Greeks on the verge of poverty. You approved 200 million euros. You have consumed the EUR 100 million. In 2016, there is not even 1 euro. We do not know what is going on with the tragedy thousands of new pensions, what is going on with the hidden debt, which no one mentions the EUR 15 billion. Farmers still didn't get the money for balancing, oil, VAT, guaranteed income, Lagard list. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't want to consume any more time. I would like to say that, without much talk and doubts, this is a budget of poverty, without prospects and therefore we are not voting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u254	Thank you Mr Antoniadis Ioannis MEP of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the Bartholomew Music School of Elias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will proceed with the MP of SYRIZA Mr. Diaras Georgios. Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, is the 2016 budget that pleases the Left? Is the budget that satisfys the ecology? Apparently not. It's an emergency budget, a budget that divides what he can collect. It's the third memorial budget you're trying to make him as fair as possible. It is the budget of the consequences of many decades of unprecedented politics of the client state, immunity, tolerance to theft and waste. I should like to begin with an observation because I still feel unintended in the procedures of the system of debate in the House. Dialogue and discussion must be aimed at finding a common basis of understanding which, at some point, is beyond class policies or theoretical philosophy. They do not lead anywhere to parallel speeches - monologues that are not converging anywhere. We avoid honesty and dialogue, always accounting for the impressions to the voters. History teaches, common sense requires. In the difficult times of the country not only needs understanding and cooperation, but more is needed. The maximum possible unity on the basis of commonly accepted principles and values is an absolute necessity, a unity of all those who have the good intention of helping with a common effort for citizens and their homeland. The arguments that SYRIZA did to Samaras, or that's how Samaras did to Papandreou or Papandreou to Karamanlis lead nowhere. I'm not talking about a universal government. I am talking about a general common line in what most everyone agrees. However, a political agreement can be reached with close political forces for enlargement and social and political as it should be, subject to the dismissal of complexity, corruption and a strategy for reorganisation and reorganisation of the economy. The unity needs patience and perseverance, and we must not let that happen. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is the highest value and it is not the whole Parliament. I put a few questions to everyone as an expression of the political ecology and in every direction. Can anyone talk about sustainability, which always goes into everyone's texts, when his policy is to draw oil from underground deposits, when we know the stocks are finite? Is that sustainability? Is it sustainability when he plans to exhaust all the lignite deposits for electricity generation? When it promotes intensive crops in the fields that destroy the productive capacity of the land? When he doesn't set fishing limits in lakes and seas? When he draws the groundwater by constantly downgrading the waterline? When he pollutes the waters of lakes, rivers and seas? Do we see the future like that? And I come to some also questions related to consumerism. Is the existing social classification model compatible with sustainability? Is fashion compatible with the sustainability and economy of natural resources and what is projected by advertising and shaping the new man? What do the parties view as to the government requesting investigation into bankers and bankers granting loans without guarantees? I don't see that coming out. As far as taxation is concerned, let us see what the Right and the Left say about taxation at the same rates as the UN, namely small companies, but also public limited companies and very large companies. What are we going to do with this phenomenon of bankrupt companies and their owners becoming rich and making money abroad? What do you think of the progressiveity of rates of taxation, parental benefits and inheritances that are now 10%? Do you remember that 1% of the Horseman? Do you remember that from 25% he took it to 1% horizontal? Where's the progressiveity? Where's the tax redistribution? As far as insurance is concerned, what is the right policy when we choose between increasing the insurance contributions of companies with a possible consequence of the closure and redundancy of workers, or a ceiling - the very large pensions, for example, a cap on the pensions of EUR 2,500 and a steep reduction on the very large pensions? What is the right and fair policy? Shall we reduce all pensions horizontally or reduce only the very high pensions? What is the view of the parties in the proposal that pensions should be reduced to half for those who have another pension - I am not saying for those who have only the pension - or for other large incomes? What do the parties think about social cooperatives not paying any tax in the first five years, so that the people who are snatching their homes and giving the state an incentive for this? What do we have to do? Should we not go on punishing the guilty of big theft and returning the stolen ones? Should we not plan a sustainable economy with food self-sufficiency, decentralisation, etc., as I have said in other speeches? Should we not house the finances and the state, make accounts coming out, reduce expenditure at every level, such as public works, renting buildings, war spending? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. And I come to what we shouldn't do. We must not forget the unemployed - which is the country's biggest problem - private sector workers, businesses that close down or go abroad, the evaluation and better use of civil servants, the failure to relax in the application of the laws, not to go bankrupt with other workers and microprofessionals. It is a reasonable paradox to coexist with impoverishment and overconsumption. But this is interpreted if we think of one another as giving birth to another. In order to limit impoverishment, high consumption should be restricted. Is it not absurd that degeneration and decline coexist with the rapid development of knowledge and technology? The combination of technology, knowledge and expertise creates enormous potential for the production of goods. But the perfect measure is called for to survive in harmony with nature and real happiness. Determination phenomena can only be limited if thresholds are set - plaited - to individual wealth and consumption. Any change of course begins only after the awareness of the many about the causes of the deadlocks and generalized absurdity. Knowledge with irrationality is a very dangerous phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Georgios Diaras. It is now for six minutes that the New Democracy MP, Emmanuel Konsolas, speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I sincerely regret that I do not know how many of us see where the process of discussing the financial statement is - a budget for 2016. And I honestly am impressed by the positions of highly governmental executives, because there is not a single word of self-criticism from the government for the first seven months of governance SYRIZA - ANEL. I do not know if today we would be at this point if from the beginning of the administration of the Ministry of Finance it was Mr Chakalotos. I guess not! However, for the seven months of the created ambiguity, abstention and improvisation, no one has spoken to this day. No one has spoken of a so-called negotiation that led to referendums, electoral procedures, capital control, instability and uncertainty. But what were the results? You know, the toughest and painful memorial added 5.7 billion for the period 2015-2016 with the signature of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I was told before by Mr Antoniadis that we might not have to stay in the numbers. But many times it is useful to talk about numbers, because this is how the priorities, values and worthy, which many colleagues from the Left have spoken about. That was the result? Along with the complete loss of the concept of trust in the economy and the banking system, together with the control of funds, and especially the way in which the need for new recapitalisation of the banks was created, 40 billion additional money was lost by the Greek people, through the process of recapitalisation. The stock market value of the banks, owned by the Financial Stability Fund, a year ago, was about EUR 25 billion, and today this property of the Greek people does not exceed EUR 500 million. Really, how did we lead to the need to recapitalise the banks, when the banks had successfully passed stress test, when there were private funds that they invested in and at the same time started to return from abroad? The answer to this question is probably you sought it in your own words. And you know, no one talked about the bank bleeding, which is due to the huge deficit of confidence, the climate of instability and insecurity of the economy. Because you know very well that the economy is climate. And there was no climate. I don't know if there is now. An effort is being made to create a climate. However, between the beginning of the year and April 2015, 29 billion euros had left the banks and the number continued in the coming months. The government was watching these events with no effect. As a result, we have led to a ruthless recapitalisation on the property of the Greek State and the small shareholders of the banks and, above all, to a leftover of the banks. And you know why. Even for subsidiaries that were profitable, such as Finance Bank in Turkey, the Government has not answered why it proceeded with its sale. We are waiting with interest for the answer to the question we have tabled in the past few days. But today, on the initiative of the New Democracy, we are asking the government with a new timely question and that is why. Because there seems to be a limitation of the Greek banking system only on the narrow limits of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at all the indicators of the economy. Is things better today than it was a year ago? Are there not 10 billion more public debts to the public? Is this an improvement or a deterioration of the economic climate? The best solution is to have time-savings? I remind you that from the 9 billion we received, we had reduced it to 3.8 billion and today, in the ten months of your own governance, is at 6 billion! Has the country been or has it not for the first time had a positive growth mark in 2013 and 2014 in relation to today? Of course, we will see both 2016 and 2017. I referred to the beginning, ladies and gentlemen, in my sadness at the fact that some people are not aware of it. If you had completed the assessment of Genaris and hadn't seen the governance of Varoufakis - now, you know, everyone we've put him in the corner - we wouldn't have arrived in this situation. That's the truth. We wouldn't have led to the toughest memorial. We would not have imposed such tough measures on the Greek people. And you know what? Since I and some other colleagues who are from island regions - as far as the real economy is concerned, and above all tourism - are concerned, we have a tax raid, a huge tax raid, because it seems clear from the increase in the tax rates that the tourist product - the main means of development for the country - has been imposed too much on competition. In fact, I must mention a study already posted on the Internet, a testimony and local factors of the Chamber of Economics in my area, which show that there is a reduction in tax rates from them for October. We will see with interest the end of the year and where we will lead. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, just a minute. And you know, I will not dwell on the fact of ambiguity in terms of immigration policy. We have, however, - and we are talking about tourism - changing Kos - the fourth destination of tourism - to a permanent refugee camp. I'll just mention a few sizes. The president of tourist agencies, in open consultation in the previous period, said there was a 48% reduction and that there were cancellations in nights in August and September over eighty thousand. And I would like to close with the question of the national dialogue on education, where the pre-formal dialogue of the Ministry of Education with regard to the Committee on Dialogue and the members who the Minister for Education has unilaterally designated, and could be designated by the Committee on Education. You know, we are canceling reforms of previous efforts, both by Mr Loverdou and Mr Arvanitopoulos and Mrs Diamantopoulou, but also by the reforms that you have introduced in the previous period. You are now trying to cancel the creation of Greek-speaking sections that have been made and with the efforts of the Minister - two in the Aegean Sea, two in Crete - and the Institute for Tourism Research. You did not give answers, Minister. And listen to something: Do not think that we are obsessed with it - you are trying to cancel everything positive with regard to tourism education - let me submit this in the Minutes. On November 9, 2015, a few days ago, Mr. Friend from this step took the initiative of MPs from the New Democracy and PASOK, with an amendment that has been tabled in the past - Mr. Loverdos has attempted to complete it, and Mr. Kourakis has attempted to complete it - in relation to the appointment of tourist training officials. And now - listen! - in the grazing bill, this article, which was adopted and welcomed by the Minister, abolishes it. Is it or isn't it absurd? I put forward the relevant document for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Is that the national dialogue and the consensus you are seeking? Ladies and gentlemen, we will have time to discuss these individual issues. You surprise us negatively. The new Republic, as far as it is concerned, will stand by its arguments. Our rapporteurs have analysed the budget in detail. We find it difficult to vote, despite our intention, because we do not want to consent to a greater collapse of the country's economy and climate - as I said before - that will follow in the next few years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr Emmanuel Konsola, Member of the New Democracy. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntrakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget being discussed is classic. And he's classic, because he takes it from the people to meet the needs of the monopolies. It gives it to a handful of capitalists who have also created the crisis. All budgets to capitalism constituted and constitute a means of class redistributing the socially produced wealth from the many to the few and favouring capitalist development. This development is sought by all of you, from SYRIZA to Golden Dawn. Does any of you question capitalism, the capitalist development path? Oh, no. This budget therefore photographs one in one of the new anti-grassroots measures costing 5.7 billion, which were voted jointly by SYRIZA, ANEL, New Democracy, PASOK - DIMAR, Potami with the third Memorandum as a follow-up to the previous two. These are measures that do not only concern 2016. These are measures that came to stay, preparing the next barbarity cycle with the overturns in the insurance. On the one hand there is a decline in social costs - wages, pensions, benefits, allowances - and on the other hand a takeover of taxes and characters, extermination of farmers, self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises from VAT and contributions. Thus, all the post-war capitalist growth has been based on the hump of the insured, their blood and sweat, on their contributions. This is how the wealthy factories, banks, ships, through cheap state borrowing. These luxurious and unscrupulous bricks built the new post-war fireplaces. This is the "holy private initiative" that, in its name, SYRIZA is now bowing down, preparing for her own development packages and special tax zones. What do special tax zones mean? It means tax incentives to large capital, exemption from employers' contributions. These are the components of social democracy and neoliberalism and make the limits of these two indiscriminate. You serve this policy. In this anti-grass road map integrate and establish the new supranational privatizations and all privatisations for TRAINOSE, Ennatia Road, ports, airports, areas - filleting, privatization in energy, water, waste management. When the working class hears about development packages, ESDPs, special tax zones, financial instruments, recapitalisation of banks, new development laws to support investment, to know that these promote new profit fields on its backs, to shield competitiveness, new tax exemptions, two billion of the European Union's investment packages and to escalate the anti-grass attack. Without that urban state and domestic capital, they can't move rum. The recipient of European funds was neither the workers nor the farmers. Since 1980 360 billion has been allocated from Community packages. Where did they go? Did the people benefit? Oh, no. They benefited from the monopolistic groups. Even projects of the NRP for 2007-2013 related to the people's needs, which had guaranteed funding, have stopped. For example, it is the Kastelli street from Marmari to Mesara Heraklion, the Panormos street - Antiant in Rethymnon, the rebuilding of a large historical school complex, the "Capetagnificio" School in Heraklion, which, while the work began, was stopped, it is a grandmother and the students learn about the containers. The NSRP programmes make the need for popular anti-Semitism, anti-military and anti-nuclear protection, social infrastructure, health and welfare needs widened. While there should be complete logistical infrastructure for social structures, with full state support and funding, with permanent and stable work of workers, these are offered through European programs with expiry date, as is the case, for example, with the Paedophiliatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion, with the Psychodiagnostic Centres of KETEA, with the two-day centres, with the children's stations, with the KHP, with the CIDS, with the “Help at home”. The result is to keep workers unpaid and work under constant work hostage conditions. The risk of ending the programs is immediate, which means they are thrown on the road and the basic needs of the staff stops being met. These funds, after being slashed, are the crumbs left to the impoverished, are the ones that will give the EUR 490 public work, to the new slave trade in social cooperatives - for which we have just heard that they need to be granted tax immunity - to voluntary work, to non-governmental organisations, to these new rodents of Community and public money to deal with the impoverishment of parts of the people, by reducing popular reactions, by pushing integration and manipulation. The minimum funds for employment go as subsidies to enterprises, while for workers it means recycling unemployment. Now, you're advertising the 35 billion Eurocker package. And these are new privileges to multinationals. This funding does not fall out of the sky. It is people's money, blood and sweat, which is given in addition to tax exemptions and subsidies to pluralism. Where the NSRF will be channelled, the Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research of the Hellenic Industrial Association and the Centre for Planning and Economic Research has already taken care of it with studies based on the anti-popular medium and third memorandum. Evidence is that parts of the new JESSICA-type ESRB will manage them not state institutions - government, regions, municipalities - but banks and anonymous companies. Most of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 will be implemented through Piraeus Bank. It will continue to manage funds for social policy or public projects through public limited companies, such as the EBRD, even though there have been huge problems so far. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the JRC philosophical development of capitalism there can be no one. This is where the quintany of the radically different development path that the JRC has put forward to the people is. Unlike capitalism, which is the development and redistribution of wealth, it is based on the individual ownership of the means of production, socialism, development is directly associated with the socialisation of the means of production, the central planning of the economy and social control. This JRC proposal is effective, because it depends on the people themselves, if it wants to impose it, which must impose it as quickly as possible in order to be redeemed by the capitalist yoke and the exploitation. So when our people hear growth, they must know that this means cheap labour force, it means a favourable investment environment for the many at the expense of the working class, at the expense of the many. The JRC, ladies and gentlemen, is not trapped. That is why he calls on the working class, poor farmers, professionals, craftsmen, traders, young people, young people, women to stand up and condemn these policies, to condemn this capitalist development path.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u260	If you're kind enough, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u261	It invites them to stand up against these plans, against the crises, poverty and unemployment and the wars that capitalism produces. For all these reasons, therefore, the JRC is voting against the budget and we are calling on the people to wake up. Thanks for the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u262	Thank you to the MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Synthraki Emmanuel. The Minister has asked for the floor. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u263	It is not Parliament's place to discuss whether there are possibilities of pluralist politics within capitalism. I am concerned, however, by the previous speaker's view of social stratification in Greek society and economy over the last thirty, forty years. In fact, if you think that what has been played in the last thirty, forty years is multinationals, big families - two hundred families - on the one hand, and everyone else on the other, you're always making a big mistake. When SYRIZA's strategy starts to pay the rich and there will be measures for voluntary disclosure of deposits abroad, you will see that it is not just the big families. You are making a very big mistake and you will make repeated mistakes, systematic errors, if you have a strategy based on a view of social stratification that most reminiscent of the '70s PASOK than a modern Marxist party. The '70s PASOK was talking about the non-preferential Greeks and gave the impression that it was the big capital on the one hand and everyone else was on the other. You should know that capitalist exploitation is not just in big capital or in large multinationals and that, in order to have the two large parties up to 90% of the population, too many who would not call them "large families" and "multi-nationals". That is why the modern Left must have a strategy based on an opponent who is not only the large multinationals, not just the bankers, the large industrialists but very important capitalist forces that ally with them. A budget, therefore, can put the first steps to redistribution, precisely because the opposition is always complex and therefore their policies must be complex.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Synhronakis, he made a position and a general comment. Don't start a dialogue. Besides, he didn't say anything...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u266	I didn't say anything offensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u267	There can be no answer from the Minister in any position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u268	The Minister has the right to be placed. It wasn't personal. Please do not start this process. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th General High School of Patras, 1 Department. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Mavrotas Georgios from the river for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much, Mr President. The budget is the process that divides the pie. Well, mathematics here is invincible. They also beat demagogy and populism and compulsion. You cannot cut taxes and increase expenditure in a balanced budget. The question, then, in the budget is that it shows priorities, the priorities of each government: what will cut off, what will increase, where will it get revenue, etc. It is therefore the budget that composes external data with endogenous desires for the economy. The economy, however, is a climate and instead of trying to make it temperate, you do everything you can to keep it polar. There is nothing going on because of the uncertainty, and in several cases because of the inability to do so. You're puppying. "We vote but we won't apply", as if you were the little kids who are making balls and want to make fun of the teacher. You resist fingernails and teeth in every attempt to exploit state property. We heard Mr Tsironi a little bit ago. You are resisting the rationalisation of the public, in fact trying to fit in with it as many of your own. You continue the well-known doctrine of postpopulation, "I nominate, so I exist". When we talk about solving the unemployment problem, however, we do not mean the unemployment of your constituents or your relatives. So moral advantage or mythical slave in this case? You've done nothing to promote entrepreneurship. You do not believe in it, however, unless you consider that the new taxes will promote it. But where will the unemployed get a job? Are you going to appoint them all? We've been last consumed in the insurance debate. And the perfect system, however, to be able to build without jobs, without growth, will collapse like a paper tower. There, therefore, we must emphasise, how we help the private sector, the steam-driven economy, and not how we fill the public with our own children. So you do not miss five, ten Members. You lack vision, you lack the way, you miss the people who will implement it. We have a narrow framework within which we can move with a few - I admit it - degrees of freedom. But, even so, things can be done, for example what Mr Fotakis, the Minister for Research, can do, which is an exception to the rule. He's a man who knows his territory, not because he says it himself, but because he speaks his past and his work for him. I just hope the party mechanisms don't catch him. The main items of the budget were discussed by our rapporteurs. I'm only going to dwell on education, research and sport. I will not only be sorry, but I shall refer to the positive, whichever is positive. I could disobey them as a good Opposition, but, it seems, I have not yet entered the point of the politician's role. So, in the rapporteur's report, we are pleased to see that, in the fields of education, you are also adopting some of our election proposals, such as extending the institution of standards and vocational training. On the other hand, however, I cannot denounce the Minister's manners, which go into the Committee on Educational Affairs, speaking of the value of dialogue and consensus, and once he goes to plenary and table two amendments, not procedural, but of substance, such as the choice of training directors, where he brings back the infamous 'interview', which in May, when we discussed the draft law on school directors, was a sinful case - the SYRIZA rapporteurs said - have now been sanctified, because the interview will be carried out by the regional directors appointed by you. However, any dialogue process is being blocked and suspicion is being increased. I would like to open up a small parentheses here, saying that in general, we have acquired a frustration in terms of unnecessary and delayed amendments. Something has to be done about this in the House. We had twenty amendments to the pasture bill! From, "We are every word of the Constitution", you have gone to, "We are every amendment of the bills"! Fortunately, there are no amendments allowed in the budget and we have escaped. Let's go to the education numbers a little bit. We are problematic about reducing over 10% of the funds for higher education, i.e. from 913 million in 2014 to 719 million in 2016. The increase in the budget for the exams to universities, which since 1 million in 2014 goes to 12.3 million in 2016. And we wonder about that jump. In research, we welcome the increase in funds for GET, the General Secretariat for Research and Technology, by 20%, as well as the creation of the special research fund. As long as this money goes where it should go, with transparent and pragmatic procedures. We'll be here to check it out! Let's go to sport. On page 49 of the report, "Culture and Sport". It has nine actions, none of which refers to sport. Is this your vision of sport for 2016? I would remind you that 2016 will be an Olympic year and the allocation for the General Secretariat of Sports is reduced from 67 million in 2014, to 50 million, i.e. a 30% reduction. Of course, you will tell me that there are other priorities in society! I don't disagree. The state likes to honor athletes when they bring successes. Its role, however, is to help prepare for these successes, which we do not see. I hope, at least, that even these reduced funds will catch a place and go where they need to go and not into the hands of the two of them. To say, however, and to say good at sport, we see very positively the fact that budget support at the National Doping Fighting Council so that it can do its job decently and adequately. To conclude, it is clear that the SYRIZA caravan is difficult to move forward. He's got it himself. And messages from outside aren't encouraging. You are looking at the latest about suspending the Schengen Treaty, and so on, which is entangled around us. I sincerely hope that the caravan will not lose its way again and ask for assistance like in August. We, as a river, believe - and we will not stop saying so - that the country will only be saved through sincere cooperation of reasoning forces for national reconstruction. In this context is our yesterday proposal for electoral law, a proposal that tries to overcome the misdemia of the past and open up new horizons, see just beyond party bumpers and leave behind customer perception practices. Because, ultimately, it is not about uniting the paths of the past, but about uniting the powers of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. George Mavrotas, MP from the river. Mr Ioannis Balafas has the floor now. Mr Balafa, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, some in the summer - it has not been many months since - sought not to be the ones to table and defend the first budget of a government that has - and will have - a different logic and priorities from all previous ones. Some wanted 'left parentheses'. They failed! Now they are dreaming of global governments. Some people are even baking themselves up, talking about reversals of governments, with Prime Minister - we have heard that too - Mr Samaras! The fact is, they refuse to comply with reality. However, our country, our country, our country cannot be governed - and it will not be governed - by those who have enormous responsibilities for the current situation. The place, with the will of the people, will be governed by those who have the political will and the plan, to break with great interests, in conflict with complexity and corruption, by those who have a specific plan to get out of the crisis, which, in their own part, is also implemented by the current budget. Let me finally say that it is strange to blame us for the inefficiency of those who brought budgets with out-of-real budgetary objectives. Let us remember the arrogances and impossible to implement primary surpluses. And it is worthy of wonder how they speak of a lack of prospective parties and former rulers, whose practice is far from complete even from the practice of large, subtle, relative parties in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall move on to the solid territory of a applied policy and the tangible elements of the budget. So we are talking today about a budget which is moving in a different direction than we used to. The core of this budget is to combine budgetary equilibrium with social justice. And it is a budget with increased expenditure on social protection, with an increase in the grant to hospitals, with an increase in the Public Investment Programme after years. On this point, let me continue, in more detail, on issues relating to our Ministry, the Ministry of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, namely local government issues. Ladies and gentlemen, payment of the basic support of the municipalities, which are centrally autonomous resources, is made according to planning and will normally be completed, in a difficult period, indeed, for the country. And while over the past few years, with the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, the reduction of local government resources has reached 61%, we are today judging and discussing a budget where not only has no reduction in resources, but on the contrary, there is even a small increase in OTA issues. These are the evidence. Allow me here to mention some figures: In 2016, next year, funds are provided for the Level I Local Government agencies - the municipalities - that relate to central self-resources, which relate to a special grant and debt of about 2.58 billion years, increased - small is the amount, but are increased - by 9 million euros since 2015. For the regions - in other words, the resources from central self-resources, the basic support of the municipalities - amounted to EUR 616 million, while the total resources for the regions amounted to EUR 652 million. If we compare aid this year with last year, we have an increase which is EUR 337 million, but which comes from the transfer of the payroll code for officials in the regions. At the same time, I must say that a few days ago we signed the allocation of a sum of EUR 22.5 million for the payroll of January by officials and workers in the regions. I would say that, in order to reassure employees of what is too far-reachingly spreading. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate on the budget, let me raise another important, economic dimension, which concerns the adequate financial difficulties of the local government bodies. I will mention the facts, first of all, to be clear and to speak on the basis of the data: In the first few months of 2015, at least seventeen municipalities were unable to balance their budget. Today, with the coordinated efforts of the Ministry and of course and of the municipalities, the problem is located in just two municipalities. For one of these days, we hope that the budgetary balance procedures will be completed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there are some who are still investing in fear and catastrophe. We are constantly hearing that the municipalities will collapse, due to the impossibility of the government to appear consistent with its obligations. I would therefore inform you that yesterday I signed the payment of the 2015 instalment for debts of EUR 213 million, and in the next few days the twelfth instalment of the central independent resources of EUR 107 million will be paid. At the same time, the payment of EUR 23.5 million to the municipalities is being completed. A question therefore arises. Why does this catastrophe paraphis continue? For our part, we do not make any progress. We are aware of the difficult situation, but we will stand firm against poor quality propaganda, misinformation and falsehood. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In closing, I too recognise the important effort of the municipalities and regions at this difficult time. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Local government is essential - it is probably the most basic - pillar of support for society, and its institutions and citizens, of course, are making great and friendly efforts at these difficult times and are institutions of hope in the coming years. I think it is a given that particularly difficult is today. Tomorrow we look forward to, hopefully, fighting for a better day for local government and, more generally, for our country. And it is necessary to start creating it from today with wide social, above all, as well as political unions, whenever and wherever possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Papaliou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget under discussion has been drawn up under a crisis situation, under unrealistic conditions. These are determined by the fact that the country is under comitology, by the burdens incurred by the governments of the parties to the once-compartment, the dismantling of production potential, the recession, overtaxation, poverty, unemployment. Moreover, from the unfavourable international and European economic and political context and, above all, the refugee situation. The government's planning is given on the basis of the agreed, well-known way, with the institutions in August: Resolution of prerequisites, recapitalisation of banks by regulating the issue of red loans, assessment and negotiation for the settlement of non-viable government debt. At the same time, programming includes the development of a parallel programme, which consists both in counterweighting for the removal, as far as possible, of injustices and the dismantling of the intensity of existing measures as well as in the country's production and institutional reconstruction plan, by the activation of the NSRF and the establishment of the new development law and by the announced Revision of the Constitution, respectively. In this suffocating environment, the 2016 budget is being discussed and voted on, without the government intending to look forward to the situation, which is extremely difficult, especially for the citizens who experience the harsh day-to-day life. The 2016 budget is a sign of progressive left writing, without that implying that problems are solved or that they will be solved automatically in 2016. The road is extremely difficult and harsh. The budget is based on three pillars combined. In budgetary equilibrium, the development dimension and social justice. The fiscal equilibrium is ensured by saving expenditure with targeted and not horizontal cuts from various sectors of government activity, with an effort to avoid cutting down and maintaining the amount of social benefits. The development dimension is reflected by an increase in public investment by 350 million euros. For the first time since 2010, the Public Investment Programme has increased to EUR 700 million and, in addition, the NSRF has channelled funds of EUR 300 million - more than last year - in sectors that produce added value and create new jobs, a sample of both the philosophy of the government and the potential of the Greek economy. Thus, it is based on the design of productive reconstruction, which is not limited to the quantitative but to the qualitative dimension of the programmes, since it is intended to be used and not simply to absorb these resources. The social justice pillar, which provides an amount of more than EUR 820 million for additional social costs, includes, among other things, increasing health expenditure by EUR 300 million, continuing and strengthening humanitarian crisis policies, developing policies to combat unemployment and increase employment, mainly with actions for the population groups showing the highest rates of unemployment: young people, especially young scientists, low-skilled people, over fifty years of age and long-term unemployed. Institutional measures for the operation of employment programmes and for the reorganization of the vocational training system, so that vocational training is linked to the integration into the production process. Finally, the development of the social economy as one of the pillars of the productive reconstruction plan by highlighting cooperative ventures and creating new jobs, and in mountain and problematic areas. All that, which is certainly not enough, is to combat tax evasion, tax evasion, by means of intensive checks on known lists, which the previous governments had forgotten in corners, but also in offshore companies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, the fight against folding corruption through the state's collection of undeclared taxes by big time-consuming and control of sea-fashioned media and parties. In fact, the forecasts of the expected revenues from these sources are not incorporated into the budget under consideration, as was the case with the previous ones, which was also outside. Therefore, the relevant resources, which will de facto be collected, will be channelled to sectors and social groups for the development of policies relating to productive reconstruction, the recovery of poverty, social exclusion and the reduction of social inequalities. All of this leaves a certain print. This other policy, which is difficult because of conditions but with seeds of hope, policy, which is different from them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Papaliou, I'm sorry to interrupt you. Without your responsibility, I would like to make it known to the House that, at the beginning of your speech, we did not activate the timer. Time's up already. Once the time was activated, fill in the semester. You've been using about two minutes without the timer. So please, if it's easy, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u275	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is therefore a policy that has been differentiated from those of the governments in recent years and which can be the preamble to the country's entry into a phase of reversal of the downward trend, in terms of social justice. The budget vote is one of the first steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u276	Thank you. Mr. Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin any reference to the budget, I should like to address the only person present from New Democracy, Mr Staikora. Mr Stavoura, we do not demand - as a Golden Dawn to force Mr Kumucasco from this step to apologise publicly from the Golden Dawn, because, following the public prosecutor's inquiry that ended, there was absolutely no incriminating evidence either of the Members of the Golden Dawn or of its mere members, which had even been filed against the attack. Please deal with this so that it can be restored. We hear the budget has something to do with numbers. Indeed, with numbers. Sadly, however, the word itself presents what is happening. We budget, but the numbers never come out. And especially with SYRIZA and the coup d'état will never come out, because rather the exercise of your policy, Ministers, is based on one of theorists of eugenics, Malthus Thomas, who said what he said about problems with the population of the earth. He said that the population of the earth is growing by geometric progress. You replaced that with taxes. Increase taxes by geometric progress. I mean 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32. In compensation, there is also the numerical progress, which is arithmetic progress made by this theorist in terms of incomes. The income goes from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. So you have to understand very well that either you have a EUR 1 tax, or EUR 5, or EUR 10, you are not going to get anything from the Greek people at all. The Greek economy has been under constant question in recent years. Cause? The inability to manage and govern all governments, regardless of the present state of affairs from '74 onwards. And, unfortunately, on a daily basis, government officials are competing on who will supply either with his words or with his actions, with our loan sharks and our partners at the expense of our country. If, ladies and gentlemen, Greece and the European Union are a family, as you all support the anti-constitutional arch, then we Greece, as a member of this family, are presenting domestic violence and to an excellence. Unfortunately, the Minister of Economy, Mr Tsakalots, has left, who referred to mistakes. Just 24 hours ago, he tripped the government he was supposed to serve. He made a whole gave. Speaking at the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce, he got away from him - and I do not know whether he really told the truth or was deliberate - that Greece has never dismissed the danger of leaving the Eurozone, the well-known Grexit. In his statement, what did he manage? Bring in investors? I don't think so. He managed to prevent any potential investors from operating in the next few months. So these manipulations, from the point of view of co-government - and not of course all the predecessors - mean three pounds. They're either incapable of being traitors or they're stupid. But you have one thing in mind: none of these three things is forgiven. We are supposed to do parliamentary work and control in the home of democracy. Probably more like a house of guilt, because the home of democracy has been filled with guilty ones. What democracy are you talking about, gentlemen of SYRIZA? You are violating the Greek Constitution every day. Your Ministers and the Deputys, not all of course, perform their duties selectively. We therefore invoke our constitutional rights as defined in Article 4(2), which states that "all Greek and Greek women have equal rights and obligations". Article 51(2) and (3) states that 'Members represent the nation and are elected by universal suffrage by citizens who have the right to vote'. And Rule 62, where you should give more basis, which says that "in no way is parliamentarians confined to the performance of their duties". Why do we invoke them? An open letter has been sent to the Deputy Minister for Migration Policy, Muzala, by competitor Eleni Zaroulia, and I am rereading to you the answer I received to my question from the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction signed by this Minister: "In response to the question put by the honourable Member, Mr. Ioannis Sahinidis, on the recommendation of a committee to cover the health of refugees, we would like to inform you that the Deputy Minister for Migration Policy, having studied the theoretical texts of the Golden Dawn and having treated as doctors injured, refugees and immigrants from groups whose theory and actions are similar" – see that it states - "with those of Golden Dawn or behave" - the wording is of great importance - "to be guided by Golden Dawn, for reasons of consciousness to enter into a process of dialogue with those who use the parliamentary process in order to diffuse opinions or the central idea of "blood, honor, Golden Dawn". Mr. Minister isn't here. Mr Minister, we have been 'cold' for your personal views and ideas - and I am stumbling it with omega, as Mr Zouraris said yesterday - and whoever has a question to ask about what 'we have been killed'. "We have been killed, therefore, for the personal views and ideas, like the Minister, Mr. Xanthos, as well as the Deputy of Mr. Polakis. Because you happen to be doctors and you have the same views and ideas, I imagine that the doctor who let a forty - six - year - old woman die out of a heart attack to provide care to an Afghan who was not in serious condition will have the same ideas and perceptions and opinions as you. I give the floor to the President-in-Office to answer my questions in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Yesterday - and I shall end, Mr President - from the Step this late night we followed a speech by the female Stalin, by Mrs. "Stalian" Kanelli, who preferred, instead of referring to the budget, to refer again to the Golden Dawn. I recall she was the one from this Stepma had said that from Perama to Keracini Fascist won't stay. I denounce her as a moral autocrat for the murder of our two comrades.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Shahinides, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u279	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u280	What you just said is serious. I would ask you to withdraw this, because neither is Mrs Canelley present.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u281	We were not present, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u282	But he didn't refer to you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u283	Golden Dawn. I represent Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u284	I would therefore inform you that these cannot be heard by the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u285	Yesterday from the same Step he reported them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u286	And you won't consider anyone who comes up here morally. It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, a sensitivity. We have the anniversary of the Decembers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u288	Are you finished or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u289	I'm done, I'm closing. As far as the Greek people are concerned, unfortunately, they are living in Divine Comedy. He lives hell. The politicians to blame for this situation will pass through the purgatory and the third piece, heaven, will be the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u290	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and two teachers from the 5th General School of Patras, second section. The House welcomes them. [[Applause]] Mr Balommenakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u291	It leaves the Golden Dawn, but the paradise of the Golden Dawn, ladies and gentlemen, has experienced millions of people in the hangars and tens of thousands of people have been tortured by it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I wonder if the previous speaker is not fascist about why he should protest. I would also like to ask myself one who hates parliamentaryism because it invokes the articles of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. That's all. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for the extradition but it is the indignation of the obvious. In my opinion, the most important information provided in the new budget is that the primary surplus for 2016 is determined at 0.5%. This is translated into about 850,000 000 000, based on the expected level of GDP. If we were to turn the clock of time back to the very dense political time of the past ten months, we would see that exactly that process that the anti-population process is being sarcastically ironed, that is, the negotiation process, paid at least 7 billion a year, since, as the Greek people will remember, the surplus that the Samara government committed itself was estimated at 4.5%. Here is the clear visible measurable profit from one otherwise painful agreement. If there was openness here in the opposition, it would at least have to be recognised that there is a real gain here. Can we ask ourselves what kind of budget, therefore, would it have come if the former government of New Democracy - PASOK had not been approved by the people? With such a burden on an annual reduction of 4.5 % of GDP, in order to serve the debt, could there be an elementary social policy? Could national participation in the Public Investment Programme even be strengthened? We see that now, thanks to the decisive reduction in surplus obligations, provision is made for the payment of social budget expenditure - other colleagues have also been mentioned - by 823 000 000, but also, above all, for an increase in national participation in the Public Investment Programme, some 50 to 100 million, depending on GDP, which, of course, is also increasing. Some Members here say that they do not see the political will of the government to curtail tax evasion. They are talking about a tax raid, when it has been apparent that the increase in tax revenue from about 21% to 25% of GDP is mainly attributed to the fact that there has been increased participation in layers of professional categories, even in areas that so far, in full contempt for the principles of justice in taxation, have systematically avoided tax and, of course, to a certain extent, increased use of plastic money. Be sure - and if the Greek people are sure - that either by persuading me to the more systematic and fairer application of laws or even by fear of punishment, tax evasion will be curtailed, until in a very short time it will be possible to talk about a modern state, law, tax, a state where the big and systematic tax evaders will render what we need and all of us will know well, apart from our rights and tax obligations. A development that will allow for the first time in the modern history of our state to reverse the relationship direct to indirect taxes and, of course, to provide better services to citizens, education, health, etc. I hope that the introduction of tax in schools, as is done in many developed countries, will make a decisive contribution to this. In the context of a long-standing crisis that has created the backward and threefold disapproved political system, coming out of a practice of decades of inter-dimensional and pluralism of national wealth, the preparation of a budget with a clear social figure that provides for increased, as far as possible, funds to combat unemployment, humanitarian crisis, extends the minimum guaranteed income, free access of uninsured elderly people to hospitals, a budget which, for the first time in five years, provides for recruitment of personnel in the health sector. Of course, as in any complex public or private argument, the result is what will be judged. We are entitled to be optimistic. I think that what the Greek people need to know is that significant help in achieving the objectives of the budget will come from the indirect restructuring of the debt that has already taken place. I am thinking of lowering interest rates and extending the payment time of the European Stability Mechanism by 2,5 to 3 points compared with the IMF loans, which already creates a reduction in the annual commitment, thus a higher balance to be managed. It is indeed a good development and it is reflected in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the winds of history have changed in this country. For those in and out of Greece who continue to fantasize parentheses and twists, for those with obvious contempt or even reversal towards the three-time expressed will of the Greek people to turn a page speak of spinning in the condemned vicious past, there is an answer and it is clear. The sovereign left came to stay, to correct, to heal for decades of pathogens, to create unitedly, with vision, perseverance and will. It is not about the Left that would attract the maintenance forces and the capital circles that would have been used to the unavoidable. It's not the Left who wants to live only in the struggles and sacrifices of the past. It is a modern radical social, political, and radical change project. Maintaining the timeless values, social sensitivity, historically certified unselfish fighting, faith of its people in a society of peace, justice and prosperity, will demonstrate that it can successfully exercise, with the consent of the people and with the consent and cooperation of the inconsistency of the political forces, complex government tasks and bring them to a successful end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u292	Mr Karagunis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to talk about the budget but while listening to the positions of the government officials, Mr Tsakalotou, but also of the good colleagues of the SYRIZA, I thought there were two different concepts. There is the budget and there is the budget for SYRIZA. How can we say it? There is politics and there is Tsipras policy. And to understand the difference, while politics is generally aimed at very specific results, Tsipras, as an international patent, always achieves exactly the opposite results. Think about it in terms of headlines, as they do hundreds of thousands of Greeks, before deciding that they have no reason to stay in the country anymore. It is a series that we would kindly call it a series of incredible contradictions. In reality, however, as the citizen says in simple words, we are simply dealing with unsatisfactory, unfortunately, people. Consider the following. These people said they'd be stacking the banks and giving them as a social surplus to the people. That's what you said before the election. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, banks belong to Anglo-Saxon funds. You see, your German friends no longer invest in Mr. Tsipras. Apparently, they know you now. In other words - let me speak - Greek Madour looks like Wall Street's "pad". The great politician who tried to resolve the refugee problem in Europe and who were all hug and kissing with Mrs Merkel, in the context of the joint struggle for European borders, has led to an official discussion in Europe at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard Mr Musala earlier - that they will take us out or may take us out of the Schengen Agreement. The man who promised to overturn all pension cuts is about to introduce the concept of post-recalculation of pensions, over with heated, nullification of pensions, in order to look good to the lenders, the false resistance to which he was politically established. The man, ladies and gentlemen, who was elected to rekindle the demand as a socialist old-school and old-fashioned socialist, managed to grab Greeks' money at night, leading all Greeks, especially pensioners, to the tails of EUR 420 and, in fact, to the cessation of all economic and investment activities in the country. I don't have to say any more. The Tsipras policy is a neology, which means deception of the Greek citizen. So the budget of such a Prime Minister shares something from the misleadingness of his entire policy, which means that it is neither a budget for budgetary consolidation nor a budget for development, nor a budget for exit from the memoranda, nor, of course, a budget for exit from the crisis. It is simply the sad impression of a political bill of deception by the Greek citizen. I will tell you something, ladies and gentlemen, remember that, because next year, I do not know if we will be here. However, I will reconvene my speech, to remind you what I have said. The economy, within the environment of overtaxation, collective terrorism, capital controls, which are the pretext for the "first time left" to put a hand on the Greeks' money, the transformation of Greece into a isolated place for the transit of candidate jihadists and the complete extraction of consciences, symbolized by the dose of instructions to the government of incarcerated terrorism, will be a free fall in the next budget. In an economy that is dead and in a society with all the resistance of the most fascinated, even if there was a brave debt arrangement, because this is the front of this government, in which - my humble view - irresponsiblely invested the political charity that Mr Tsipras follows, it will have no effect. The economy, as you know, is primarily psychology, it's market moral, it's business's vibrant and hope for a better tomorrow. In the country of Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsakalotou, these things simply do not exist. In this sense, this budget is not only inconsistent with what will eventually happen but symbolizes the sepsis in which public policy has come. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree to refer either to figures or to figures, tables or to anything that will wear this budget. I'm just going to make a simple comment. As I usually say, "Tsipras is, it will pass."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u294	The next speaker is Mr Igoumenides from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the budget debate, the most important topic in my opinion following the government's programme statements, after a year of 'Golgotha'. Its main feature is the agreement, which ensured the necessary financial space to break the vicious circle, budget deficits that lead to austerity, which in turn leads to a recession, which in turn leads to new budgetary deficits and so on, ensured the necessary time for reforms that have been postponed for decades, guaranteed the necessary money through the Juncker Development Package. Is that enough for the country to enter a development trajectory? Of course not. We simply intercepted the vicious circle - deficits, austerity, recession - death of the Greek economy, death of the Greek society. But how we go from here and beyond, it depends on our orientation and our struggles. It is true that we have reached very close to the end, very close to the rocks, on the Rota you designed very well. And where the opponent was about to resurrect "the failure of the Left in Greece" to all the peoples of Europe, who because of the problems they face are beginning to look politically towards the left, we managed this year's war year to be the year of overturning. Regardless of how much you like it, this year closes with almost zero recession, closes with banks recapitalized, closes with deposits secure, closes with tourism enhanced. This year opens the horizon for a more optimistic future. In these circumstances, a left-wing government is budgeted for the first time. In this budget I have to note that it is increasing compared to last year's budget by 5.2% the Public Investment Programme, increasing from EUR 823 million last year to EUR 823 million all of the costs of the social budget, granting social solidarity allowance to insecure over-ages, costs to deal with the humanitarian crisis, strengthening employment and entrepreneurship, strengthening the banking system, increasing from last year to the appropriations for hospitals and, for the first time, not in relation to last year, in relation to the last six years, recruitment of permanent staff to the public health system. All these points have been made by various speakers either to hide under the carpet of tough measures imposed by the country's obligations or to degrade them. I accept the criticism that is being made in all of this. It is very little, compared with the enormous explosives, I would say, the needs and urgent demands of the daily life of our people, a daily life that you, gentlemen, have created in the New Democracy, with the policy that you have pursued. Indeed, these measures are minimal, almost nothing compared to the visions and the Left's programme for our country. However, with these flaws, these measures open up and show us the way we need to move out of the crisis, the path of citizenship of the citizen, the path of solidarity between the lower social groups, the path of justice, the fair distribution of burdens that each one of us needs to bear, each class, each social group, to “sweet back” in our country. These measures are the result of a hard effort by the government, which, as you all know, did not stop in July, an effort that must remain the same continuous, just as painful against all of these poor friends in our country who want to get back every conquest of our people, every conquest of the People's Movement in Greece. Finally, these measures are not enough to be implemented by a parliamentary majority. He needs a fight with a view to breaking with the rotten establishment that resists his throwback. It's a fight with an open score. Next to this constant effort by the government, we also need this constant struggle of the social forces that support another perspective for the place. How can I say it in other words? If, in the positions of government responsibility, we were brought by the struggles of our people, even greater, even greater, deeper struggles are needed. A whole more mature folk movement is the prerequisite to unfold the Left project in Greece, in order to transform today's small steps into a stable step forward, along the way for a new Greece. One of the rails of such a track we are trying to place with the budget we invite you to vote on. That is what the New Democracy does not want, which is why the previous speaker did not read from me. They don't want to. I'd like to say a couple of words here. Firstly, in my opinion, it is not the intensity of their opposition to the absence of a leader. It is not for their opposition to mistakes, shortcomings, inability to do SYRIZA, as they claim. Their opposition speech is not a cry of agony for the socially weak. What New Democracy does not want is the left-wing course of Greek society. This is against the New Democracy. It is voting against the social sign and the left footprint of the government's policy, and this will continue to fight by all means. In any case, if you wish, the New Democracy attitude is expected. This is its political role in the system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to conclude. However, I would like to stand by the other powers, of which - and other speakers have said so - the Prime Minister himself - we are not asking to drink a little of the bitter glass he has received, which we do not consider to be a bitter glass anyway. We do not ask you to share with us the government's responsibility, we do not ask you to share with us the deterioration of government policy, as you believe. We also know very well that our success, namely the successful outcome of the struggle with our people, cancels the word of your political existence, if any. However, we call on you to get rid of ideologies and micro-participatory purposes and to join us in the struggle we are giving with our people so as not to allow the anti-popular forces to implement their plans. In conclusion, Mr President, in the historic moments - and I believe that it is the moments that we are living for - everyone really has to decide who is going and who is going to leave. We, with the struggling social forces, will move on the path of the break and the overthrow of the rotten establishment, move firmly along the road to a new Greece and win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u296	We continue with Mrs. Niki Kerameos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first state budget bearing the signature of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is a reality and contains extremely interesting elements, both for the events of the government in the last decade and for the prospects of the Greek economy for 2016. My brief speech will therefore focus on these two pillars, on the one hand, and on the prospects of the Greek economy, as reflected in the budget you have tabled. Unfortunately, these two pillars are linked in terms of cause - cause, their lack of responsibility, the impossibility of the government to plan and provide, but also the inability to perform effectively. So first, in four key words. And since the previous speaker complained that we are not talking about evidence, he will have the pleasure of hearing a lot of evidence. Hypersensitivity. As is clear from your own budget, the economy has been back in the second quarter of 2015 and the recession will continue to go on as well in 2016. I would remind you that last year's report on the International Monetary Fund predicted a 2.9% growth in 2015. This year's report on the International Monetary Fund presents a completely different picture. It estimates that in 2015 the country's GDP will decline by 2.3% and for 2016 there is a downturn of 1.3%. Second word keyword. Decrease economic climate. According to your rapporteur, your first quarter of government has deteriorated the economic climate and the business expectations indicators have deteriorated considerably. Again, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak with details. The economic climate index fell into 10 base points. The business expectations index in industry decreased by 13,3 basis points. The business expectations index in the constructions subsided almost 25 basis points, Mr. Comrade you want. And all this, while in the eurozone the economic climate did not fall back but increased and increased above the level of 100 base points. Third word key. Deferred debts. I am not only referring to the record levels of EUR 82.3 billion, to which the overdue public debts reached at the end of October. It's not just citizens who owe the state. Unfortunately, the state itself has declared an informal payment stop. According to your own report, in just nine months, in September 2015, the outstanding liabilities of the general government increased by 53%. The late payments to hospitals increased by 100% and from March to September 2015 to the general government expenditure of the government, dues increased by 267%. All this has been done on your own governance. Fourth keyword. Recapitalisation. According to the report of the European Central Bank, the banks’ recapitalisation was a result of the new economic data, as formulated in 2015. In order to avoid the closure of deposits, following the imposition of capital controls and the uncontrolled removal of deposits, the Government has proceeded with a recapitalisation that was not even much, necessary evil. The value of public shares decreased by 98%. The Government accepted the recapitalisation without a price limit and accepted that only foreign investors should participate. Therefore, even with a possible price increase in the future, the state will not gain anything, ladies and gentlemen, from what it has lost, while foreigners now control the banks for just EUR 5 billion. In short, this is a recapitalisation which, firstly, shrinks Greek private and public participation, secondly, depreciates previous capital increases and, thirdly, eliminates the value of the portfolio of the CFSF. I come to the second pillar of my report, the prospects given to the Greek economy, as reflected in the state budget. And here I'll say four key words. First keyword. Social budget. On a cash basis, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is estimated that the deficits of the social security institutions are over-calculated. In the social state sector, the total charges for taxpayers amount to almost EUR 2 billion. The insurance system only for 2016 amounts to 1.85 billion. Of course, there is no reason to limit expenditure on dealing with the humanitarian crisis. In Thessaloniki you promised 2 billion, then you promised 200 million and finally gave 108 million euros. Secondly, additional measures and additional costs. It is clear that the economic situation is even worse than the one you are describing, because the measures you represent in the third memorandum have a number of new measures and new expenditure, which are still not recorded in the budget. As I speak of expenditure, according to a report by the ‘Preservers' Newspaper’ I present in the Minutes, there is a very recent conclusion by the Public Administration Inspectors' College showing the size of corruption in relation to the moves of state cars for 2015. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For example, I would like to tell you clear cases of alleged transport even of people who have died. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Case, ladies and gentlemen of the government, which traveled six hundred and seven miles in forty minutes and many other cases. Why am I saying that? Gentlemen of the government, first order your service! Stop wasting money there before you resort to further pension cuts and increased taxes. I have tabled a question to the relevant ministers on this subject today. Third word - the key is the budget targets. And here, unfortunately, is the most impressive achievement of SYRIZA's economic governance. This is because, with the taxes you have put in and with the new expenditure cuts, the financial result should have been impressive and unfortunately not. I'll have a word about the public debt. The public debt is increasing by nine percentage points in 2016 compared to 2014. And here comparison and numbers are relentless. Between 2011 and 2014, public debt decreased by around EUR 40 billion and interest by EUR 10 billion. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against the budget and voting against it because you are deceiving in every way the efforts of the Government of the New Democracy and the Greek citizens in particular to house the house, because you have created illusions that there is another way out of the crisis for unnecessary and inexpensive reasons, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, nowhere in the text of the budget, the conditions for restoring the economy and for returning to growth are not reflected. And why, unfortunately, the rift of Grexit remains the choice of our partners due to the bad manipulations and old government. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to vote on all the positive, progressive and developmental aspects. However, this budget does not contain any of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u298	Mr Gregorakos has the floor for six minutes with the usual tolerance of the Bureau, which all Members have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from the Committee on Social Affairs where we discussed the AIDS issue. I have therefore followed an excellent committee, suggestions from the political leadership, from all the institutions and also from the Members. The miracle of AIDS today, namely that there is no AIDS in Greece - and that is a miracle - and there is an impact on a very small percentage, Mr. Comrade from Heraklion, which you were talking about earlier, is because there was national consensus and national consensus. That is why, when all the political forces do their best, miracles take place, my colleague. But when the political forces forget what they have done - Mr Igoumenides, I am referring to you - when the Deputy Minister of Health comes to Heraklion and you are not letting him enter the hospital, what consent do you want? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u300	Now regret it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u301	It's okay. So it says yesterday "AGEY", your party form: "Lionida Gregorakos: I am a Memorandum, I am not hiding". Why should I hide? I've voted three memos. Wouldn't it be a hamburger to hide? Wouldn't I be a crag? We're reliable, serious people, we're sixty-two years old. We have a culture. We don't have the culture of fraud. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please don't cause me to start. Here half the Ministerial Council just came out twice - the 'parade' began, because we are going for Christmas - and they knew nothing about it. After they had voted for it all in PASOK! Monthly were the ministers! When they remembered that there was a chance that Members would not come out and go to SYRIZA, do you think they changed so quickly? Is there anything else that made them go to SYRIZA? The spirit of the time? The Prime Minister has opened up issues that he will find in front of him, but he must find them in front of him. Because if he had made sure he was consensual over the past few years or at least throwing some water into his wine, brother, he would have told us to stand somewhere and say "yes, I voted for a bill". We are not ashamed of the vote on the memorandums, because we said the memorandums were a national need, and that is why we voted on them. Do you think I wanted the memorandum to enter, cut off the pension of my next door, my friend, my brother, my wife, my own salary? Hey, I'm not a massager. You think I wanted it? Any Greeks want that? Nobody wanted it! The need has made us, as did you the need for you in the summer to come to vote on the third memorandum. So I do not understand the 'immemorial-antimony'. I do not understand the real splitting policy that the Prime Minister followed yesterday with the proverb from the Arab Emirates. None of those who voted for a memorandum is an antimony and it is not a proper political position. But one might touch you, my dear Mr. Theonas, to tell you about your partner.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u302	Who's my partner?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Kammenos. So we have to be a little careful, because that's the truth. That is the reality of anyone who has been blinded. Don't make comparisons between New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA to the nationalist party! Another thing that doesn't exist here and lets you do whatever you want. They gave him a plane and he goes back. I'm fine! [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] I respect your views. I appreciate your race. I appreciate your race! I appreciate your efforts! I appreciate the effort of all SYRIZA Members! Hey, you say you haven't done anything well in the past few years! Say at least an apology for these terrible scumbags! You know, I haven't been bothered by everything you've said, but this word "walked" I cannot afford it. Pilgrim? So now it's all over the government and all of you are worshiped?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u304	We don't worship anywhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u305	But what happens now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Gregory, they're lying down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u307	Now let's not enter into dialogue. Mr. Gregoraco, go on. Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, because I want to talk about two things, I want to talk about health and local government...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u309	I address the benches, the MPs. Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u310	Okay, thank you, Mr. President. For the health of consensus! Instead of improving the health system, continuous degradation! Here's Mr. Stavros, I guess he was just a little while ago, he left. Instead of taking care to avoid taking advantage of the patients in the system, you brought them back to me again with the Katorugalou law, "the bad guy" Gregorakos caught him in the "August" and the same night I had sent him home." And it came out and the Christian said "I couldn't get the money!" Why, do they get to the others? You brought him back. You brought them back the gynecologists to "Helena". All of them! Instead of avoiding the black - out of the system, you still give doctors of the National Health System permission to go supposedly for post - education or unpaid work. They take the place in "Evangelism", "State of Athens" and in the University Hospitals of Greece and go and work abroad. Hey, what kind of a bitch is that? Hey, what kind of a bitch is that? I'll keep my guts on the outside, name them, and if anything happens, I'll come back. I didn't sign one. He's signing against Coron. Otherwise, we have a lack of doctors in the National Health System. We have brought the amendment - and it has passed - so that the doctors can leave at sixty-seven years. We didn't bring her because we wanted to raise the doctors' age limit. Needless to say, we brought her because a thousand doctors were leaving the system. Now they're in the system and they're holding the system up. But you did not vote for it. You fought her with a maniac. Percentage of drug involvement. You've taxed now. You've increased the insurance contributions. Instead of safeguarding and maintaining permanent and subsidiary positions in hospitals - we had won it with the previous Ministerial Council - you took the money, the vacant posts were left and you could not have declared posts. Here's Mr. Staruras. I'm talking about four and a half thousand, three thousand hospital staff seats and a thousand five hundred permanent doctors. You took the money and gave it to the insurance funds in winter. How, then, can you issue positions on the National Health System? They're closing all the hospitals. As for intensive care units, all of them will be closed because all the CDC nurses who supported intensive treatment units were fired. Just a few words about the interior ministry and the municipalities. Before that, however, I will say that it has been done with the budgets in hospitals. We said that we would go with what we did by 2013, because we had achieved the goals. Now, instead of 1,860 million, we went to 1,400 million. If we had said we wouldn't lower it anymore! Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Gregoraco, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u312	I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that the municipalities - regardless of what Mr Balafas said earlier - are ready to close. You took them now and the money they had to get from the grasslands, from the pastures, took them to the periphery, shut down the shops, stop the farmers and the livestock farmers and the municipalities will be looking for money. We, therefore, do not believe in Arabic sayings. We want national understanding in practice, because the only truth is actions, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u313	The next speaker is Mr Bukokouros, who concludes the tenth circle of speakers. After Mr Bukouros he has asked for the floor - and there has already been agreement on this - Mr Apostolos. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, to my dear colleagues in SYRIZA, who go up to the Step and talk about zero recession and other things, I would like to say that it would be appropriate to update your information, ladies and gentlemen, because, as you know, ELSTAT has revised its assessment of the recession in the third quarter. It is uploaded to 1.1% and not to 0.4%, which was its original prediction, which makes the target for zero recession impossible. But even today proves the insolvency, the incoherence and the irresponsibility of SYRIZA policy. For the second time in a few days, the government called on the workers to take part in today's strike. But they missed an important and critical detail. Today's strike was anti-government, it was against the government and the budget it is tabling! SYRIZA's policy workers and SYRIZA's budget have protested today. I think the government - I can't think of anything else - has put it to confirm the people's proverb, 'all laughing at me, I smashed in laughs', although the government's policy rather than laughing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that it is truly sad and psycho-corruption, even for us themselves, the spectacle of the SYRIZA and ANEL MPs defending themselves with passion of fanatical first-time fanatics the third most prestigious, difficult and harder memorandum. The so-called 'Passonars' and the so-called 'libertadors', which would not let pass and would rip off the burdensome and disobedient memorials and free themselves from the austerity, not only the Greek people but also all the European peoples, are today, unfortunately, drawn to the ladders of the loan sharks. I do not know what the politicians are still looking after us, and we all have to live this time. However, the last episode, led by the nice Minister, who was playing the role of a monumental cigar, must have broken every ticket record. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget is the written proof that hope is going away and taxes are coming, hope is leaving and pension cuts are here. The increase in unemployment and the return of recession and deficits cannot be hopeless is desperation. It would suffice two - three figures from the text of the budget to see the unsatisfactory retreat of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which last September promised 12 billion benefits, with the well-known programme of Thessaloniki and this year it grabs from the pocket of Greek taxpayers EUR 5.7 billion, political practice on the limits of political plundering. The government’s late payments to the private sector increased by 58% in just nine months. After receiving deep, gentlemen of the government, the private economy with the capital control, you can also give it the final blow with the left ones. Of the total cuts, 77% come from stabbing pensions and benefits. But it's left cuts and it doesn't hurt. Pension scouring instead of returning to the heights of 2009 and to the tenth pension promised by Mr. Tsipras. But that's who you are. Look in the mirror and you will easily notice the alteration of your features. The grayest, most pessimistic budget in recent years, brings the country a hard time and despair to the people. The economy is shrinking and society is being exterminated. You've even slit your flags, Mrs. Fotio. I remember the left-wing and ethnic pride of last February when you brought the first bill of the SYRIZA Government to deal with the humanitarian crisis. You said then that you would spend 200 million euros. We told you from this Step that they were crumbs. Finally, we are in the twelfth month of 2015 and you have only spent 108 million euros. You will allow me no misunderstanding to tell you that this is not enough for the most pleasant, Greek, delicious and innovative ones! And yet, within the range of recession and deficits, unemployment and investment apnea, there are surplus funds for agencies, ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, over-the-counter. As he did not have to, OAED has a surplus of 500 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, please. In the Magnesia Prefecture and Volos, in my constituency, unemployment is scoring and is now evaporating at the limits of the social explosion, with more than 30%. Industries close and others migrate. With what right does the OAED deprive programmes and funds from the armies of the unemployed? Isn't that real political and social analgesia? I hear the defenders of the government project inside the mosque of the party rhetoric asking the New Democracy about its cuts, 25% unemployment, 40% cuts and so on. But where does SYRIZA better govern, since in the past, earlier tax and other burdens it adds more new ones? The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that you have sold out, you have not saved the banking system. You do not produce governmental work, you do not pay the State's debts in the private sector, you do not offer any prospects to the economy, you do not promote any investment. The truth is that you have been opposition to 'no' and you are a government of 'no'. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely wish to vote in favour of the budget in order to help speed up your political and ideological desperation and ultimately your government collapse. I am not going to do this, but neither will I contribute to the collapse of the economy and society. And one last thing. The march in your policy of windstorm shows that you are not a caravan. Caravans have order, order, and goals. You're a sloppy slob and you've lost the way in the desert of your anhydrous government initiatives. As for your expedition to seek political consent, let us buy when they were selling. You may celebrate your triple election victory in 2015, but I doubt you will complete the four-year period. In the end, we may be discussing the first budget on the left today, but many of our fellow citizens hope that it will be the last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u315	Mrs. Fotou, have you asked for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u316	He mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u317	Let's not start a new response cycle, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u318	I won't take much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u319	Please have a minute for a short placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u320	So, ladies and gentlemen, we are crying very much that we did not have time to spend the 200 million, as we promised, on the humanitarian crisis. But you know there's a lot of logic about money as a scumbag, how to throw it away, how to lose it, or how money to take advantage of it, so that it catches a place. Our government, the Left Government, knows how to give and catch the money. I'll tell you the very simple thing, so... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Why is that such a mess? Listen to me a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u321	Mrs. Fotio, please be brief. Next Minister, they're waiting for MPs to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u322	If you interrupt me before I speak, it can't be done. You're gonna be a little patient to see how you spent 500 million by throwing them anywhere. Just giving a 500 euro allowance to some Greeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u323	How many?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u324	And how do we forty-five thousand families...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u325	What are you talking about? The New Democracy has not left so many poor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u326	Mr President, the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u327	Calm down. The solidarity card...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u328	You didn't give the poor money. The money you promised to give. That's all!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u330	Let the Minister finish first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u331	Mrs. Fotou, listen to me. You're going to analyze your programme. It's time. You haven't spoken yet. When you speak, you'll be placed. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u332	This has never been done with a Minister. Neither the Chair nor the underdoers have cooling a second to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u333	Excuse me, are you targeting the Bureau now? I don't understand. You're giving up on us already?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u334	That's never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u335	I gave you the floor to give a specific explanation of what Mr Bukouros said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u336	That's what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u337	You're the one who opens the whole range of your powers as Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u338	The money you promised you'd give?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u339	The day will come, the time you'll talk. Please, I've already announced to Mr. Apostle, who's been sorely waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u340	I now eat Mr. Apostle's time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u341	As a parliamentary representative, I ask for the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u342	Mr. Brutsi, I'm sorry, the Minister's not finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u343	Let the Minister finish first and then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u344	And you needed to intervene? I saw you, you are a parliamentary representative, I would give you the floor. Parliamentary representatives are entitled to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u345	I know and will of course develop you when I speak in detail, because the solidarity card is too burning for you. Because today the world gets 70 to 220 euros a month for food stable and will take them all the next year. Because it receives EUR 70 to 220 a rental subsidy consistently and will take next year as well. Because it takes 300 kwh free a month stable and will take the next one. We didn't fly, we didn't eat 500 million for fun.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u346	What are you talking about? Who ate them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u347	That is why the stuffed is the invention of the Greek people, and that is why you must teach. It's too bad you're taking it! Learn from the inventions of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u348	Mr. Brutsi, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u349	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u350	Here, for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, I take the floor and would like to say at the outset that it is very courageous to place Mrs Foulios, who is very exposed to a critical issue, that of the humanitarian crisis and one which the government needs to hide because she is double-exposed. And I'm explaining. Mrs. Fotou, the famous humanitarian crisis you had on your agenda, you first translated it into Thessaloniki for 2 billion, the first year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u352	Let's go again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u353	Then two billion became 200 million. And you have the nerve today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Brutsi, start a new circle again. You're addressing Mrs. Fotio. You put on issues, you'll put on more. What do you want now? Is there any conversation between you two?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u355	Are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u356	Yes, I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u357	Why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u358	With your permission and with the consent of the House. It's not the world, Mr. Brutsi!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u359	All right, I'm repositioning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u360	They're waiting for MPs to speak, they're waiting for ministers. We're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u361	Give me the time again. I repeat. Mrs Fotioux and the government are exposed twice. They deceived the Greek people. They deceived the poor, the weak, they were ordered "rocks with rocks", the 2 billion of Thessaloniki became 200 million, and the time being closed reveals the great fraud. It is only 108 million, when the previous government gave 755 million for family aid, that it gave 450 million to seven hundred thousands of families through the primary surplus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u362	Mr. Brutsi, you can say this in your speech whenever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u363	And I'm moving on to something else new for the House to find out. At the time, Ms. Fotio, unemployment is so high that you increased it, while its macroeconomic perspective was to be at 19.5% at the end of 2016, they take OAED's money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u364	I'll answer you. Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u365	Now are we going to start a new circle, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u366	And we now reach point 280 million euros, money for the workers who have been given for unemployment programmes, who have been taken to the Bank of Greece and who have been ignored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Brutsi, please. You wanted something specific to say and you opened ten issues. I'm so sorry! Finish and stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u368	Here's the paper. Money that should be used in unemployment programmes goes and parked in the Bank of Greece with the fake business of the highest interest rate. Why, Mrs. Fotio? Isn't there unemployment? Why don't you do unemployment programmes? The money is the workers' money, not to cover other costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u369	Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC, Mr Pafilis, has asked for the floor. Minister, please wait a minute. Give me a tolerance. Here you go, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, I have been asking for the floor for the first time, but here we need to clarify something first about the procedure. Are we finally going to implement this? Whenever the Minister speaks, will the parliamentary representatives take the floor? They'll take him. Sure. Because so far everyone's talking when the Minister gets up. The champion is Mr Loverdos - I do not blame him, I say how the process is being shaped - 'one minute the speech', five minutes the speech. He's taking another Minister's word again. Again. If it is to apply to everyone, and not to be the koroids of history, to say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u371	The toddlers...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u372	The dolmats?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u373	Now he didn't ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u374	It is a shame for the Greek people and those who produce wealth, this disgraceful debate that is being held in here, that is, who treats them as beggars either with 70 or 100 or 500 or 300 euros. That's what they're saying right now. I am also addressing the world and not Parliament. Those who build everything, those who built Greece, those who produce wealth, are being hornetted today, and the New Democracy and the PASOK and their system that impoverished them, and SYRIZA who follows the same policy, that they are given a horny piece of money and they must also be pleased. We consider it a challenge literally in 2015 with such possibilities that society has to fight in here about who gives them a scumbag, as they used to fight, when kings were slaughtering the world and queens were sharing caramel with orphans. So we tell the people that it belongs to him all, and he has to decide to reject this logic that he faces as a beggar. They deserve it all, they produce wealth, and they must concentrate their attention and their powers to overthrow a system, because it is responsible, and with those who serve it, to get what belongs to them. And to stop, we say again, because it is literally challenging - the advertising made by one and the other and all of the so-called charity they are doing to those who have literally sent to hell.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u375	Thank you. The Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostleu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u376	You didn't interrupt Mr. Paphie! Be fair, President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u377	That's the first time I've ever talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u378	I didn't say you wouldn't talk. He didn't interrupt you. Is that fair to interrupt me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u379	I've never talked in two days. You've spoken a hundred times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u380	May I? Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus my speech on the rural area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u381	Say when the farmers will be paid, since you're on the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u382	I think it is the area which has not been at least affected by the interest it has had in recent years. There are many problems we have to solve. First of all, as you have asked for it, I shall be standing on the question of the days in which the payments are made. Since noon, the provisional rights of the basic payment per VAT farmers have been posted, which means that payments have been unblocked and will be made as a whole next Monday. The total amount to be paid will be 90% of the basic payment, namely EUR 1.1 billion, which is 50% of the direct payment. They will be added to them by mid-December at least 200 million, pertaining to all outstandings left by previous governments between 2009 and 2014. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, countryside will be strengthened these days by the sum of EUR 1.3 billion, which will, of course, contribute to the economic activity of the countryside. But I want to make three things clear. Firstly, it is about the implementation of the new CAP, which means new data which require the redefinition from the principle of all rights. And we are talking about rights involving seven hundred and twenty thousand declarations. Secondly, in most European Union countries, the payments in question have not, of course, been made, and thirdly, the amounts of the new common agricultural policy, which had, of course, been agreed by the previous governments, are at least 10% smaller. For all this, I will present you with a detailed statement from the OPEKEPE. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I cannot, however, refer to the storm that we have experienced by receiving the Ministry and the consequences of the poor management of Community aid by the governments of both PASOK and the New Democracy. I repeat it for a pluralist time. We have had financial corrections, i.e. fines, totalling EUR 1.4 billion and allocations of EUR 1,1 billion, and others come, because of this behaviour. What have we done, ladies and gentlemen, so that our country can avoid the worst? For the fines accepted by the previous governments, we have already paid the first instalment of EUR 311 million and you understand that it follows in the years ahead. For the counting, after a hard battle, we reduced the sums in the first phase. We have achieved a great deal at this level, but it does not allow us to talk about it. Unfortunately, however, the European Commission insists that farmers themselves repay the remaining sums, otherwise the country is threatened by reference to the European Court of Justice and daily fines. I will present to you the relevant letter from the European Commission, which furthermore highlighted the indifference shown to date by the previous governments, an indifference that exacerbated the situation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have had to bring legislation, which stipulates that if recovery is finally made, these should not be done by the strict and forced procedure provided for in the previous law, No 4002/2011, but by another softer procedure over time, which will describe it as a ministerial decision by the Ministers for Economic and Rural Development. Of course, I would once again point out that any decision to recover from the rural area, if such a matter arises, will be codecision through Parliament. And let then come the New Democracy colleagues for the Hatzigakis packages of EUR 421 million and Near EUR 108 million, as well as the PASOK, for the package of EUR 500 million to the cooperatives, to vote in front of the dilemma for the corresponding sums or for the Greek taxpayer to be charged with new fines. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider that there is considerable room for overthrowing many situations and problems, based on an overall plan for immediate relief and a medium-term development strategy. The first thing we have to deal with is to limit the impact of the crisis and the new agreement on agricultural income, and the second is to serve our primary sector programme. We will insist on the negotiations by tabling specific proposals. Our basic philosophy is that tax burdens should be distributed fairly, with the most obvious objective of the greater agricultural character, with any scenario or combination of scenarios and alternative proposals and a corresponding reduction in small and medium-sized farms, which will result from the remuneration of their real family work and not from a allegedly identified business gain. However, in order to avoid the debate on assumptions, I have to submit specific figures. Farmers for the income of 2013 paid a total of EUR 411 million. For the 2014 incomes they paid less than half of it, i.e. 186 million euros. And for the incomes of 2015 they will pay about 210 million euros a year. That is what this year's budget provides for. Even at a rate of 20%, in 2017 farmers for the incomes of 2016, will in no case pay the EUR 411 million they paid in 2014, based on the revenues of 2013. I say this in order to understand that, when SYRIZA was a government in the summer of 2015, it exempted aid to 85% of the Greek farmers who received aid under 12 000 euros. Finally, this political overuse of the issue must be stopped. It does not help farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, our main programme, as has been tabled, remains stable and unchanged in its philosophy, its values and objectives, which are to serve the radical reform of the agricultural sector, a plan aimed at ensuring our food adequacy, the competitiveness of agricultural produce through added value, the containment and renewal of the rural population and the guarantee of social cohesion in rural areas. Our interventions in 2016 aim both at reducing production costs and improving prices for agricultural products. In this direction, the administrative management and payment mechanism will become more flexible and effective in order for the farmer to be paid quickly, to ensure that the necessary liquidity is provided and, above all, without financial corrections, by fines. We have already started institutional interventions. We voted a few days ago on the bill regulating the highly complex topic of grazing land on the basis of their need for use and, of course, the protection of the environment. We have already tabled in public debate the bill for the professional organisations of farmers, cooperation and the social economy, which can be enriched in this consultation process with other proposals and other parameters. The problem of liquidity, which is indeed very serious, will be resolved both by the change in the way of the rural banking system and, of course, the development bank which we are preparing for a part of it, an area of rural space, but above all by the rural card, which we will adopt in the beginning of next year. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the new programme for rural development has already been adopted. It is precarious to implement measures to enhance the liquidity and income of rural households, but above all they will provide direct investment opportunities in the countryside, with the priority of the notices for young farmers and multifunctional pilot farms. We create a productively usable genetic material bank and maintain domestic varieties, giving particular weight to applied research into the production of domestic propagating material. We are developing toward immediate improvement and use thousands of acres of school public land for agricultural production. We are intervening in rationalising the use and cost of energy resources in agriculture through modern technology systems and reforming - simplification of the licensing framework for livestock establishments. We have a national system of certified agricultural products, in direct connection with the corresponding European and international data. We are establishing by means of a system of recognition of the seasonal, in particular, work on seasonal and fishing activities of seasonal or fully employed migrant workers, who, apart from being absolutely necessary under the present conditions, acquire a legal status and will contribute to the envisaged work to the insurer. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] One or two minutes, Mr President. By contributing to the multifunctional and sectoral nature of the rural economy, we are strengthening the institution of the economy, making use of the concept of the agricultural consultant, as set out in the rural development programme, in order to be the scientist of the geotechnical applications, that is to say, the one next to the farmer, limiting the indirect cost of his advisory presence. We intervene institutionally in 2016 with a single system and procedures in the field of the marketing of agricultural products. People's markets, central markets, imports, exports, rationalising the market requirements, but above all, protecting the producer's prices. There have been too many interventions in international relations, discussions in the Agriculture Council, particularly on the protection of geographical indications and, in particular, on feta-fibre products in the context of the agreements between the European Union and third countries. Also, bilateral cooperation has been strengthened in many respects, I would say, with the main aim of promoting our agricultural products' exports to the large markets. I do not have time, I would just like to say two words in particular about the fisheries sector, where we are now entering a different speed. We have already completed the process of mapping the seabeds with Poseidonia and of course we are closing the work, I would say, the integrated fisheries monitoring system. Ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing a comprehensive plan for the reconstruction of the production base in the primary sector based on product cycles based on the comparative advantages of the country and we have completed a inter-professional dialogue cycle with a view to developing a modern commercial strategy in the food sector. There are many circles that have as their main objectives nutritional adequacy, high-value products and, of course, special products that highlight the country's comparative advantages. For this purpose, a special group has been set up at the Ministry of Rural Development, which in the first quarter of 2016 will put this whole proposal in public dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, we must, as a government in difficult circumstances, go but we are ready not only to deal with the consequences of the agreement and all that the crisis has brought us, but also to look further. Because especially for the rural area, having the enormous comparative advantages, which will help the country's reconstruction, we must take these steps. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am particularly grateful to the forces which embrace the European path of the country, which, in the previous draft law on grazing land, even with the conditions that have been adopted and all that have been followed, said 'yes' in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u383	Mrs Kozobol - Amanatidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the bravery of those who led our country to this size of the humanitarian crisis, now invoke the SYRIZA Government, because it gives less than it promised. Really, it takes a great deal of heart bravery to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the adoption of a state law which will determine the course of our country for the next period. That is why we are very carefully and with particular responsibility for this particular piece of legislation. Here there is a significant difference from the past: the fact that this budget can be accepted as a budget for stabilising the economy, the principle of exit from the recession, the principle of recovery. The figures showing the image of the Greek economy over the last five years are vague. They suffered both numbers and people. So the figures that we have heard very much from the previous speakers show what? Significant annual GDP fall for each year, totalling about 27% over the last five years, national debt growth and absolute figures, but also as a percentage of GDP from 120% to 180%, an increase in the unemployed by one million, an increase in bank outflows of around EUR 110 billion, with EUR 70 billion coming to the banks abroad. These, above all, were patriots, followers of certain factions, whose class interest was overridden by the national. They also show an increase in tax evasion, an increase in corruption, a triple of suicides. The numbers, when accompanied by names, ended up in the houses of Ministers. When they represented money, they ended up in bills, offshore companies, in accounts in Switzerland. The numbers represented hatreds of armament programs, submarines, wells. In other countries, people who represented these accounts would do caricature. But here they are honorers of an eight-month government. With the 2016 budget, the government is called upon to manage the specific resources at its disposal, which, as a result of the policies pursued in previous years by previous governments, are desperately limited and would be completely non-existent if we were to be forced to surpluses of 3% or 4.5%, which had been agreed by the previous government. So, on the one hand, it has to manage these, the desperately few resources, on the other, it has to give these guidelines to take the country out of the recession spiral. With the 2016 budget, it is estimated that the revenues will be made at EUR 51 billion, increased by 2.5 million from the previous year. This, combined with the containment of expenditure, creates a primary cash surplus of about 2% of GDP. This means that the State can fulfil its obligations and create a liquidity and is therefore expected to reduce the rate of increase in the government’s outstanding liabilities, with a view to reducing them at the end of 2016. Priority will be given to the health, welfare and social security sectors which are the main obligations of the general government. In any case, this budget is strategic and is part of a wider strategic plan that leads to another kind of development, and the first step towards a development path is the creation of a climate of stability and budgetary equilibrium. It is the first objective of this budget. The second objective is to end the reproduction of the current momentum of the Greek economy by laying down the conditions for the creation of primary surpluses, not hidden in the reserves of the OTAs and the insurance system, as the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK did, but by real surpluses. They lay the foundations for a long-term solution over the long term of the total debt of 320 billion, which will almost by itself create the ground for a new course. The third feature of this budget is its social orientation, as any possibilities provided through the suffocating financial framework are primarily allocated to social expenditure, health, humanitarian crisis, unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not celebrating today's budget, but, in common, we consider that this budget 'wastes the water in the groove', which is why we invite you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u385	Thank you. Mr Dendias has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not trouble this House with numbers. In any case, they were analysed with absolute competence mainly by the diligent rapporteur of Officerial Responsibility, Mr. Stakoura. I think that of all the numbers that have been heard here - and hundreds of numbers have been heard with different reading and interpretation - we can end up with the common place that the country has returned to the recession and that this budget is a material budget. I want to be honest. I'm not saying that. I think, however, that in general, the government has made a major targeting error and, however difficult it is to change its course, it is our absolute obligation to highlight it, to demonstrate it and to explain it, with the hope of reaching agreement on the self-evident. The government first imposes 3.2 billion new taxes and, as we have been discussing before, 3.2 billion are mentioned not as a result of tax evasion. Consequently, in an economy that has returned to the recession, it removes the Greek state further 3.2 billion. The State also raised its unpaid debts to the private sector to 6 billion. This is all blood missing from the sick body of the Greek economy. I think the wrong targeting is even wider. I explain: The government has considered that the main bet for the country is to make some adjustment on the debt issue. It has the impression that it will be able to free economic powers and change the economic climate. That is absolutely wrong. Debt is a big problem, but it's not today's problem. Debt is a problem that will be created in the country after 2023. Currently debt service costs - within introductorys - only 5 billion and a few billion, when in 2011 it exceeded about 15 billion a year. 2009 was about 12 billion a year. The target should not be about debt. The target should be for development. We're locked up in a debt negotiation. The government is constantly proposing debt and improving conditions, because the government is not going to get any kind of haircut, I hope it is understood. On the other hand, if, for example, it promoted the growth of the economy and the difficult economic reality, it could be proposed that the European partners should be asked to receive 1.9 billion provided for by privatisation in 2016, instead of going to serve the debt - compulsory option since we propose it as the major problem - to go to a 'guilty' in order to be able to deal with the major issue of insurance, which is currently leading to a dead end and to the government and dialogue in the way that the government has sought to deal with it. Another issue to which the government has led us to a dead end is migration, ladies and gentlemen, which is now also timely. Months, from the beginning of 2015, we warn the government that it will be entangled in its policy of open doors, the policy of open seas, as you wish, as has been done. What the government has achieved in Idomenis is a task that we had already seen and simply accomplished. Thousands of immigrants have been trapped in the country at the moment and they have no politics. Its non-policy does not lead to clear threats, even if Mr Muzalas wanted to degrade them this morning in his wise speech to the National Representation, but it has led to a real risk that the country would leave the Schengen area, which means that the conquest that allows every new Greek with simple use of the police identity even moves within Europe. Many of us here remember what it was like before things, when long passport tails were the only way for the Greek citizen to enter another country. Ladies and gentlemen, the government also achieved something that seemed impossible to do, to make Turkey and Mr Erdogan as the main pillar of policy and as a point of reference for everyone in the European Union. Mr Erdogan now operates as a 'Sultan' and accepts in Ankara the Heads of European States, who are calling for his help in dealing with immigration. We have all anticipated this and all this is things that have been done because of the government's strong failures. I am not one of those who rejoice in the government's mistakes, and I am not one of those who rejoice in its failures. In the limited time of this speech of six minutes, I can only ask the government again to come back to reality and an intelligent dialogue, because it is following a course that I am sure will lead you to a dead end in the next ten or twelve months, but unfortunately it leads to a dead end and the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-five students and students and three teachers attendants from the 4th Priveza High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Christos Antoniou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the first budget of the new government resulting from the recent September elections, elections where the political parties have tabled their positions, their proposals, their ideas and the Greek people have decided to whom they will entrust the country's governance. This budget is a transitional budget, but at the same time crucial in the new government's path, in order to get the country out of the difficult economic situation, where we have been guided by responsibilities of other political forces that have been governing the country for many decades. It does not respond 100% to what we would like, as our country carries the weights and inheritances of the memorial policies and the financial and budgetary closeness that we have inherited. I do not think anyone needs to look too hard to find the perpetrators of this policy that has led us to an unprecedented economic and social disaster. I would remind you of history: Reduction in over five years of the country's GDP, one and a half million unemployed, reduction in wages and pensions of 40% and more, businesses closed down, shops down rolled, young people retrained their way abroad, such as in the 1950s and 60s, red loans to businesses and households increased rapidly, as well as the government's due debts. After several years the history of the future will describe the stories of everyday madness, pain and misery that have been unfolded in previous years. The leaders of these politicians come to Parliament today, without shame, without asking for an apology from the Greek people and swinging our fingers by pretending to be unscrupulous. If you think, ladies and gentlemen, that you are addressing cloves, you have made a big mistake. Our people have memory and judgment and everyone will be judged when the time comes. And the time will be September 2019. I hope that by then you will have made the president, colleagues from the Staff Regulations. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the PASOK Group - DIMMAR, until then I hope that you will have discredited your syndrome, the collapsing and the embracement of right-wing parties and that you will look a little towards Europe and the processes carried out in the respective social-democratic parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u389	Yeah, we're going with Pano! We're gonna put a brain on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u390	Two days now what we heard is not described. We heard that Greece was a prosperous country, that the economy was going well, the incomes had been taken into account, the investments had started to increase, unemployment decreased and other such fairy tales. Let me note here that in 2014 investments had reached 2.5 billion, the lowest point since the 1960s. I do not know whether the Members who call them were living in our country or elsewhere, because the reality of the Greek people was quite different. And since everything was going well and the debt raised in the meantime - the viable one you were saying - hit the ceiling despite the PSI, which vented the reserves of the insurance funds and other bodies, after all was done in the best interests, SYRIZA came, things began to turn and go from evil to worse! But the figures and statistics here are against you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. Despite the credit suffocation imposed by the lenders, the government has managed to keep the Greek economy up and with the fewest possible losses. The forecast is close to zero GDP reduction for 2015, a slight decline in 2016, with the dynamics of the economy turning to growth in the second half of 2016. The new budget is conservative and sincere in terms of the revenue side. On the expenditure side, it has social and development targets, as social expenditure increases. It should be noted that, for the first time after five years, we are going to recruit new medical staff so that the system can function. Expenditure on the Public Investment Programme is also increased, targeted, in selected actions that will have quick performance and reflection in the real economy, by strengthening employment and by assisting active demand. The 2016 budget is trying as far as possible in this difficult situation to distribute tax burdens in a fair manner. There is no need for the institutions to include the additional revenue we calculate from the fight against tax evasion, the fight against the smuggling of fuel, tobacco products, the control of all foreigners who either did not receive them as the recent Borgias list or who received them and kept them in the drawers of the relevant ministries. We'll check them because we're not on any lists and we're nobody's hostages. Since the new year, we put the Inclusive and any manipulator will be asked to pay and justify what he owns. At this point, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population and coexistence in previous years, I will not avoid temptation to highlight some truths that you forget when you get to this here the Stepma. Avoid telling us how the reserves of the insurance funds were depleted with interest-bearing deposits previously in the Bank of Greece, with "investments" on the stock exchange later, with the PSI etc., about how you built an anarchist and without justice-laws insurance system with charismatic customer-related arrangements in various interest groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You are also not telling us about how the state deficits and how we were driven to the memorials, about the party of the Olympic Games that we still do not have the exact account, about the maritime loans of the banks that were given to day-to-day businessmen without minimum safeguards, about the loans of your parties and when they will be repaid, for the amendments by which you are exempting those responsible for any criminal liability, for the various 'Hajidakis packages' - all the money that they gave in advance without the consent and approval of the European Union, and now that the account and the charges are coming, you are forged indifferently. Finally, you avoid talking about black funds of 'SIEMENS', about how it was fused, she left - as you would like to say - Mr. Christoforkos from the country. You have a short memory, ladies and gentlemen. However, the Greek people did not suffer collective amnesia, as you think. We are determined not to go back. The place has changed page. We will do what we have to do as a parliamentary majority to get the economy out of the recession and the crisis and gradually move on to steady growth, a growth that its benefits will be distributed and distributed to the socially weak in our society, and that is a commitment to us to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u391	Thank you. Allow me to have an agreement, ladies and gentlemen. We're in the 11th cycle. As far as Members are concerned, seven other Members are missing to finish this cycle. He has already asked for the floor to speak around 19.15, as he said, Mr Alexiadis. We shall therefore give the floor to two Members. Mr Alexiadis will be followed. They also requested the floor for two other Members, and then Mr Loverd and Mr Theocharis, the two Parliamentary Representatives respectively of the Democratic Union and of the River. So we are going in this order that I said: two Members, Mr Alexiadis, two Members, the two Parliamentary representatives and we are continuing the list. Mr Stergios Giannakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget being debated is a dramatic illusion to the government's failure. It is clear that it is uncomfortable, because it itself understands that it cannot respond to the Memorandum of Understanding commitments it has made, that it has no plan to go beyond it, and that of course there is no programme at the same time. For ten months we have been going through constant misfortune and with half the truths, forgetting that half the truths are made whole lies. At a time when the fiscal capacity of the Greeks has been exhausted - and you know it - you are bringing in a sterile, tax-sensitive and tax-driven budget and that is why anti-development. The overdue public debts to the public have reached 83 billion and the next year you can be sure that they will be deported, because from your election "I do not pay" we have now reached the real and sincere "I do not have to pay". Your budget is a budget with accounting and only approach without political imprint and programming. "The hope comes", you said in the election, and the Greek people supported you and today finds that hope not only left, but that the blade came in its place. The blade of taxes, recession, poverty, auctions. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of 2014, our country had succeeded with the bloody sacrifices of its citizens to stabilise its public finances, to return to an anemic but positive rate of economic growth, to reduce unemployment even a little, deleting positive prospects of progressive exit from the crisis. Since the beginning of 2015, the country has returned to the recession, to the growth of unemployment. Fifty-six thousand four hundred and seventy-three jobs were lost only last month, in October, according to the "ERGANI" of the Ministry of Labour. You have become the Greek people of modern Sisyfos. Now bring in a budget and with desperate and spasmful decisions you have tried to shut holes that you have opened. You increase VAT rates, corporate income tax, solidarity levy, premium tax rates, rent income tax rates. Remove the discount that existed for the one-off payment of income tax for natural and legal persons, as well as the exemptions that existed for the debtors of HICP. You increase the tax on small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of the Greek economy, the backdrop companies from 20% to 29% and you get it. You are raising to 100% the advance payment of income tax to free professionals who have not found a way to pay the debts yet in previous years, to legal persons and farmers. In particular, as far as your policy for farmers is concerned, you are ending what is left of agricultural production. You double the tax rate. You triple the insurance contributions. You're quadrupling the tax advance. Remove excise duty on petroleum for agricultural use. You're taxing subsidies, all that's left. On the other hand farmers buy feed and fertilizers with VAT 23%. You reduce basic and supplementary pensions, the one. Let's see what you tell the uniforms tomorrow. You are reducing the beneficiaries of the CSR by setting income criteria. Reduce the heating allowance by 50%. What about the issue of auctions, which will be one of the most important, if not the most important, issues next year. What no one dared you did. From the "no house in the hands of a banker" we reached the "Every house in the hands of a banker". The Preveza Hospital or one clinic after the other closes. It was annoyed by Mr Barkas the day before yesterday when Mr Economou, the MP of the New Democracy, pointed out that the clinics in Preveza were closing. Mr. Barca, we're not in an election season. The elections are over if you understand. You said they came to Preveza five doctors. Let us know, Mr Barkas, why there are only two doctors who have come after a lot of trouble and sacrifice. Of course, twenty-five engineers Mr. Skourletis found them and appointed them within a day last Tuesday. As for the police departments, from six who are today, we were told that the two and one, the one of Parga's, are closing, turning into a police station, increasing the sense of insecurity to the residents. [[At this point the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] We live 11 months with an endless politics that leaves behind the absolute zero in terms of work. As for your social sensitivity, I will tell you that the irreversible Samara government made available in 2014 to deal with the humanitarian crisis of 455 million and you, for the whole of 2015, have spent 108 million. After all, it has been said so many times today by this Step. Of course, I do not have time to refer to the public's delays to private individuals, which now amount to 6 billion. That is where you have actually made a payment stop. This and only your choice, this paralytic inability to respond, so that the market starts moving and there is some sort of liquidity, abolishes itself any growth effort. With the capital controls the market and trade have been deprived. Operations close one after the other. They're dismissing workers or putting them on compulsory leave. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, it is true that you are living the end of illusions and it is surely painful. You must understand that the time has come for decisions and you must put aside the paralysing communication tactics. All the rabies you have fought, as an Opposition, are now going through and, indeed, you are asking for a consensus to apply worse policies. From the "favor" to the "depress" three letters. You have enchanted the Greek people with lies and disappointed him every day as a government. Your budget is a left austerity budget. But you have promised, but you are bringing to Parliament and other things you are actually applying. Let us take your own responsibility and responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr. Yannakis. Please, Mr. Theonas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u394	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I want to say today, speaking in the Greek Parliament's plenary, is my disappointment, ladies and gentlemen, which has been caused by this amazingly low level of political dialogue that I have met four days now - three days in the relevant Committee on Economic Affairs, but also two plenary sessions. So low a level of political dialogue you don't meet. You know that I have had an experience of a forty-five years in the labour movement of our country, and I have turned all over Greece, for reasons of trade unions, unions, workers' centres, federations and trade unions even in the most distant parts of our country. In no village, the most distant village in Greece, you will not meet a union worker who will have this level of political dialogue expressed in the Greek Parliament! I would now like to note in particular what has come to my attention. First of all, New Democracy officials have presented two images in the last few days: An image is given by the candidates for the presidential office of the New Democracy, who compete who will swear Tsipras more to get votes from the fans of the New Democracy Party. This concerns the candidate presidents. It's an internal theme of the New Democracy. I'm just commenting on it, 'cause it really makes me a really negative impression. The second picture is the one that comes out here, both in the committees and in the Greek Parliament itself. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you have taken the lead in an unprecedented hybrid and I cannot understand it. Perhaps the Greek language will not be able to cover the extent of the insults and the designations you have made for SYRIZA, its President, Alexis Tsipras, his executives and his policy. Your vocabulary is no longer enough to cover SYRIZA strains with other hybrids. Why are you doing this? Do you not know that this level that is currently being presented by this kind of political dialogue is being broadcast on the television of the House and the Greek people are watching it? Aren't you worried about the conclusions made by the Greek people at this level of discussion? As far as we are concerned, of course, you are counting on us everything. We're responsible for this, we're lying. Who are we lying to? We who, when you were a coalition government, a co-operation government, announced this morning that there were no other taxes and before noon, even an hour after noon, you announced the new taxes that came in. Are you lying to us? The Greek people are listening to this and they are aware of it. And I don't think it's right to start saying now who's a bigger liar, us, you or others, because it's not reasonable, it's not politics. Well, you're charging us a thousand things. You are also imputing us the fact that the value of the shares of the Greek banks has been zeroed by the recapitalisation as it has been done, as if you were not recapitalisation. You were just mocking them. But you're not wondering what SYRIZA has to do with the Stock Exchange. Does SYRIZA have anything to do with the Athens Exchange? Has he put his hand in something linked to the Greek Stock Exchange? Forget, indeed, who controlled the Stock Exchange in the last 1900s and in the first decade of 2000s, which looted the property of the entire Greek people through the Athens Exchange. And now you're coming to tell us that we sold the banks and at a cheap price to strangers. You are not telling me who determined the shares of the Greek State, which corresponded to the previous recapitalisation, which was a great deal, who determined that those shares should be privileged. Imagine what privilege they had that they were unable to vote for administration in the banks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you're accusing us now, while the bank administrations have stayed in the hands of bankers that it's because of SYRIZA who their shares were deported and sold to foreigners. I'm sorry, but that's not the case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will only allow me to say a word about insurance. We have sought and sought - the government, namely - to have a dialogue with the other political parties on refugee and insurance. The importance of the refugee is self-evident. I don't have to say anything more. In insurance, however, you know, we are launching a long-standing reform, which is not possible for this reform to lift a government on its own, and it needs wider consultation. And here, when you heard Tsipras ask for consultation with the other parties, and it was also addressed to the President of the Republic, in order for this effort to be more official and more serious, you raised a storm at the time, as if Tsipras had cursed you on your mother and father, who said: 'Come and get to know, because the insurance is not about four years, it will be for several years' time'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President. After I've exceeded time, I'll stop. I'd like another minute, but anyway. I think that we will all be tested on this issue. However, one thing we say to you: don't expect any, but no, absolutely leak from the SYRIZA forces. SYRIZA is united, strong, and will give the battle, because he knows how to fight against the wide folk layers of the country. We're going to fight this fight. However, do not hope in other developments. There will be no such development. The public, universal and redistributive nature of social security will not be overturned and pensions will not be reduced. Where did you find it written all day to arrange for pensions to be reduced, and the big and big and the different? It's just that the war continues and these are the gunfights of the canals who look forward to your support so they don't suffer the consequences they have to pay for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr. Theonas. Mr Alexiadis, Deputy Minister for Finance, has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the part of the budget mentioned by the old companion and friend Yiannis Theonas, but I think that the parliamentary adequacy with which he analysed it makes no mention of this matter unnecessary. I would therefore like to refer first of all to the budgetary debate itself, because what we all have to understand is whether the so-called 'debate' is meaningful, when, in the process of the codes discussed in the budget, we can finally not change anything. And here we have to agree, because with the budget we are setting an economic objective, but even if we agree - rather if you agree to be Members, because I am not a Member - to change some amount, that cannot be done because of the procedure for discussing and voting on the budget. I think, therefore, that in 2016 there is a need for those institutional changes, that there should be such a dialogue and such a substance, so that it can be a real debate, a real dialogue and that changes in the budget can also come. With regard to the criticism the government is now accepting in relation to the proposal put forward by Parliament on the budget, I would like to say: we accept a constant criticism and a mutter on all issues. We accept an ongoing criticism, which is often lowering the level of political controversy. Yannis Theonas was rightly mentioned in this. But from the point of view of counter-population, there is no response to the overall political question, to the great political question of what had to be done. Yeah, reviewing alpha, beta, fuck. But tell us what your proposal is. What should the government do in total? We have a constant criticism and a zeroing, and you always come and say the same in all the bills. I, you know, because I'm young in the House, I'm afraid I'm too old, because I'm going to hear criticism. I'm here all the time. I keep listening to the same speeches and speeches. You have not changed the logic of your speech since August. You stick to what the government said in the election and you are trying to structure your criticism in the government of what the government was saying in election and what he was doing after-election. I told you in committee too: you are forgetting something very fundamental. When you go to the people's memory, citizens will remember what you were doing in election. What you have done for so many years, how the country was driven here, what the citizens remember. Because we have a proposal. We tabled the proposal. We did not steal the people's vote. We have submitted our proposal to the people. And we don't come here with a sense that the elections were held, let them be careful what they voted on. Oh, no. We come along with a sense that we have tabled our proposal to the people, the people have voted and we are coming to implement what the people have voted on. What do you think? You - read what is written in the very correct booklet shared in committee - you say that the solution is the return to yesterday. The solution is to return to the Samara government. But, don't you realize that that's why your people voted against you? Don't you realize that the constant obsession with what the Samara government has done is exactly what led you here that led you and that's what scares the world? We will stress this, that your political proposal towards the budget and the government's policy is a return to the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. The world, however, remembers very well what the responsibilities for the insurance system, for health, for barbaric and unfair overtaxation, for stranding and corruption are, what the responsibility is for how the country was led to this mess. Why are you criticising the SYRIZA Government's attempt to stand by the country and go two steps further and you do not answer the question: Do you have a responsibility or not for us getting here? Unless we got here from a metaphysical situation, from an earthquake, from a disaster, from a curse. The loss of strategy in New Democracy is obvious and it is obvious that the comparison that he is trying to make, the Government of New Democracy over the current period, is being compared. But just because the world has a memory, that's where the answer is. Of course, such days that the political scene and especially your space boils, we understand why this is happening and we understand your effort...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u397	You're not a congressman. Talk about your subject matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u398	Thank you very much, for being an old Member, for your parliamentary responsibility to interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u399	You talk like you're a congressman!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u400	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u401	I congratulate you on the decency you have been in this Parliament for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u402	Please! Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u403	As far as the New Democracy is concerned, then, as regards the government's criticism of what is being done, I will not sit down and read any chips from 'AUGY', from left.gr or any other party form. I shall read a statement from your representative, who claims to be the head of the New Democracy, and not what a SYRIZA MEP says. "The opposition tactic of the New Democracy, unfortunately, is nonexistent. If the New Democracy were government and did what SYRIZA and SYRIZA are doing today, Greece would be represented." Why don't you do anything? And he says below: "We need to make society feel that the New Democracy is not a foreign body, but it is part of the people". Do it. It takes a lot of effort to forget what you did and to try to convince him that we are doing something else. We also hear in your criticism of the government an attempt to falsify data. Indeed, I can see that many times the non papers circulating in the forms of interlocutory that support you become those that you then take to have in your speeches. So we are constantly critical: '4 billion more taxes, 5 billion more taxes, 6 billion more taxes'. Mercy! Open page 64 of the report. What does the 2015 budget say? What does the 2016 budget say? Simple difference of 2,2 billion between the two in tax costs. These are on page 64 of the report. Everything else that sounds has nothing to do with reality. Of course, we can go to theories, such as what has been voted on, what has not been voted on and so many other things. And in your criticisms to the government, you often come to an end - because of the arguments - to an unworthy criticism, to blame us, because the government is reducing the income of heating oil to half. But I'm sorry! This was voted or not - together with you five parties, that is, two hundred and twenty two Members - on n. 4336? So, what were we supposed to do? Did we have to vote for the law and then do what we don't do? Is that your criticism? You are also critical of the government of expenditure. You say that the government does not reduce expenditure and that it has to reduce them. I also invited you to the Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm going to ask this question, as well as another question below, whether it's answered. What reduction in expenditure is being proposed by the Opposition? What do you suggest? Shall we fire the government, like you did? Shall we reduce wages? Close services, hospitals, taxes, police stations, etc.Huh? What do you suggest? Make your suggestion. I told you in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where, without reducing any of this, the Treasury will save millions of euros every year - I have tabled concrete data - from waste.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u404	You didn't testify anything. Where is he? How much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u405	Of course I testified to you. I submitted to you that the building of "KERANI" in Thebes with two and a half thousand seats, for which the Greek State pays every month 220 thousand euros and is empty and keeps it police officers 24 hours a day, this building will stop being empty and will go services to leave rented buildings, which randomly the people who have them and hire them in the Greek state are related to various government officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u406	How much have you got in there? How much? Tell us now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u407	Don't worry, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u408	Why don't you say? I'm not nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u409	We'll answer for all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u410	Tell us how much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u411	I'll tell you right away and I'll tell you the evidence. Don't worry. You also criticise that the government does not bring evidence that it does not update evidence, that we are being financially destroyed, that nothing is being done. I'll testify to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u412	Tell us a number.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Stavura, don't worry. I understand the embarrassment. Don't worry! I'll give you the numbers immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u414	Mr. Stavura, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u415	I'll give you the numbers immediately. So as far as the matter of the information you request is concerned, I will table three tables in the Minutes for everyone to be informed. First table by the Directorate-General for Taxation, Directorate for Collections. The aggregated data from taxes and customs for November. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We don't compare fantastic things, we don't compare appreciations. We compare what was collected in the fund. From November, 2014 to November 2015, we have a 523 million increase in tax revenue from one year to another. From October 2015 to October 2014 we have an increase of 714 million from one year to another. We do not compare other months that are disparate because of tax returns, incomes, HISPIA etc. We compare two same months to make it easy to compare. However, since you said before about the issue of overdue debts to the State, I did not understand the figures you referred to. In September 2009, the outstanding debts to the public were EUR 30 billion. In September 2014, after a successful economic policy, was it 71 billion? Who's to blame for this raise? SYRIZA is probably to blame for this increase. However, we have a table on the deadlines and we will present it to the House for it to be informed. And we will compare: at the end of October it is EUR 84 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u416	The hundred doses?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u417	So, what were you waiting for? In a year with the Capital Controls, with the problems, did you expect us to reach the 2009 level? We have, however, managed to do something else, which, after one of your Members speaks to explain to us how it happened. So please explain: If we compare the sum of the tenth of 2013, 2014 and 2015 clearly it is shown by the table that we will state that 2013-2014 the maturity has increased during those times of the success story, by 2.6 billion. Within a year, 2013-2014. If we compare 2014 to 2015, the due date as a sum was reduced by 536 million. And be careful, in 2015, we had the capital controls, on the basis of which we could not take forced collection measures and push, as you did in the past. We had the problems of recession, non-financing and a number of them. However, we have a firm political will and the organization of services, and we have results which we are putting forward. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I expect answers, as the government expects, as the whole society expects. I expect answers and answers cannot be a mockery about what happened. I expect answers to an issue which every time I speak to the House I will put the same question again to the PASOK government officials, who have the main responsibility, but also to the New Democracy, who have responsibility for why they cover up: What happened in 2010, 2011 and 2012 with the Langard list? Where was the list? Why was it not delivered to the financial prosecutors and the ILO? Why would he jump from a political office to a political office and what happened? These responsibilities have not been politically omitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u418	The lists again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u419	Yeah, I understand why it bothers you because we're talking about the lists, but I'll tell you what we're doing now with the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u420	You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u421	Am I ashamed? You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u422	This look is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u423	Please, Mr Alexiadis, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u424	This irony and that style are unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Davakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u426	Be careful when addressing MPs. When you vote for a Member, talk like that. "I'm afraid of the list"!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Alexiadis, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u428	Yes, sir. That there were leftovers that counted our policy. That they're talking about mechanisms that control our decency, I didn't know. I learned that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u429	Mechanism? I have a name, sir. I'm not a mechanism!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u430	I will not deal with you, Mr Papoutsis. You're out there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Alexiadis, don't answer. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u432	Mr. President, pick him up. Bring him back to class!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u433	Mr. Davaki, please don't interrupt. If there's a personal matter, you'll ask for the floor, but don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u434	I don't accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u435	Listen to the Member who says to collect me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u436	Mr. Alexiadis, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u437	So I keep saying: What do we do with the list that has come from Germany now? In order to compare what some did and what others did and who voted laws and plays us well in here now. We, as soon as the list came from Rhineland Westphalia, did not pass by a political office, did not pass through any minister's office, did not pass through the Secretary-General's office. It was immediately delivered to the financial prosecutors, together with an operational plan, which we drew up with the Ministry of Justice, on how the list should be checked. There, then, is our difference and with the bill that comes for the voluntary disclosure of funds, together with the Incorporation Bill, together with the bill for concrete actions, we end yesterday and proceed with the tax reform and the tax justice we owe the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, too, Mr Alexiadis. Please, Mr Tasoula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u439	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u440	Mr Loverdos has asked for the floor to follow Mr Tasouula, then Mr Theocharis and then you. Members will be involved, as we have agreed with the Bureau. Two Members and then the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u441	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u442	Please, Mr Tasoula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u443	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget always shows an interest, because it gives the margin of prediction in which we are much more prosperous with regard to the accounts, which is a given framework, within which everyone is forced to agree with the reality. Because reality is something we are not familiar with, we prefer the majestics and predictions of budgets that allow us a great margin to exercise our imagination, our courage, our indifference and all that ability to tame words. Minister, when you have just arrived at the Step, of course words are chariots in everyone's mouth and yours, but the reality tells us that the 1/10 of the last year's checks have been carried out. I understand that in Greece - as Mr Tsarouches said - you are not just what you are, you are, I add, and what you are told. But, whatever you say, reality breaks down and reality says you did only 10% of the checks carried out last year. And, obviously, I do not render this to mechanisms or to various misery or trivialities in interests. It is enough and I am depressed by the failure, which is the most common interpretation of things, even though we do not like to invoke it. It is not the first budget for the first left government. This is the first budget of the first left government, signed by Drettakis in March 1982. The PASOK was elected by the people you consider to have crisis and memory, and I suppose you mean it has crisis and memory and when it does not vote for you, not only when it votes for you. The people therefore elected PASOK in 1981 as the first left government in Greece. You like it, you don't like it, you don't have the realm in it. Personally, I am not fascinated by the status of the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u444	You're fascinated by the right-wing status.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u445	I'm totally a model, out of place and time, I'm right, and I'm not even right-wing, so don't worry, you're not going to have the slightest resonance of what I'm going to say in a country, which, on the left, has made it after the post-multiple train. I am not following this train, and I am telling you that this budget of the first left-wing government, since it analyses the theory of the poor land - burnt land because growth from 6.8% to 3.8% in 1980 - says that it will create a state pharmaceutical industry, put the banking system under social control, will control import and export trade. Oh yes, it is the first time that that budget has been written in municipality and has placed the increase in revenue on the grounds that it will be based primarily on 'the will of the people, because the people want to make change a reality!' All these left-wing myths and illusions have obviously been overcome by reality and today the fate of this first left-wing budget, but also this first left-wing attempt, I fear, will be repeated with your own illusions. You don't want, December of '14 was much better than this December. In December of '14, thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people and the efforts of the Samara government, Greece had achieved the most decisive fiscal adjustment ever made in Europe, had experienced surpluses, shared a social dividend of half a billion euros and faced the next year as a reasonable opportunity to exit the memorandum with the help of a preventive support line, a pillow, and all showed prosperous after a long period of crisis. The Greek people said otherwise, they decided differently. He voted against SYRIZA or rather voted against us - to be honest - and today we have new taxes, new charges for 2015-2016, about EUR 5.7 billion, about 2 billion pension cuts and all of this allows us to compare the two Decembers and it is depressing that comparison at the expense of your own effort. And it comes close to this depressing comparison and a terrible damage to the Greek banking system, described as follows: In '13 the state's participation in National, Piraeus, Alpha and Eurobank was made at 4,29, 1,7, 044 and 1.54 euros per share respectively. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The sale made a few weeks ago was made at 0,02, 0,003, 0,04 and 0,01 euros. Of the 25 billion initial investment, the current value of the shares held by the State is below 500 million. That's over 98% loss. To put it on a relative scale, the state collects from HNVY about 2.5 billion a year. In other words, we will pay for the next ten years only to cover the damage to the recapitalisation. All of this combined with the deterioration between the two Decembers give the mark of the tuition fees, the extremely expensive tuition fees and the honor of your own government effort, which has to do with unbearable populism, your endless populism and the vast lack of acceptance of your errors. Let it be. The country today is not going to get away from the normal course of things. I cannot imagine that there are citizens who will take the texts of our debate and decide what to vote on. What determines the attitude of citizens who have memory and crisis is the deterioration or improvement of their lives. Unfortunately, in this worsening, you're giving a complete successful test. You are making the lives of the Greeks unbearably and unbearablely worse. I believe that this will also be the criterion on which you will have your political clearance. Until then, you can find free of charge for something that does not belong to you, a so - called first left budget that is coordinated with lies, delusional and illusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u446	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u447	If the two of December are compared, they are dramatically at your expense. You have nothing but to consider, to assume your responsibilities and to admit your huge mistakes. We in this budget, this lie is not going to support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u448	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. Mr. Michus has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard a great deal of talk in this Chamber today about Memorandum 3, which is the most reprehensible. But you've already voted for it, gentlemen. You were saying 'Get us a memorandum to vote and take the measures you want and whenever you want'. Now why are you complaining? You're responsible too. I heard a previous member of the New Democracy saying that SYRIZA is treating terrorists. The New Democracy what did it do when it was government with the Vlato's words that he is responsible for the murders of the two Chrysanuts and that he knows who they are and that he gave the helmets himself? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Michos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You're responsible for this, too. You all know it, just like the former police chief, like Dendias, like Athanasios. Didn't you know about Marfin? Nobody knows what's happened here? You all know and nobody talks. I heard Mr. Theonas talking about the Stock Exchange. Yeah, nothing's been heard about the Stock Exchange. Mr. Theonas, however, why doesn't your government bring the truth to the forum to learn the great dishonesty and fraud done against Greek citizens? Are you only in words?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u450	He had asked for a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u451	People want to learn outside, but no one speaks, because they are some high priests who set up this game and filled their pockets and made the money at offshore companies. And you can't talk because you've been shut down. I have also heard Mr Pafile from the JRC say about workers and that he is in favour of the rights of farmers. Have you forgotten, gentlemen of the JRC, in 2012 on a government basis, Samaras the timely question Mr. Pafilis asked about me in Evia, because I went and caught some factories, someone with small industries, and in the position of illegal immigrants we put two hundred and twenty Greeks who had families behind and complained? Yes, we are in favour of the Greeks. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't laugh. We've shown it. And we'll be next to the Greeks. You fake humanists are about the little people you smuggle into Greece. From there on, the draft budget that the government brings today is not just a disaster for society, the free traders, the pensioners and all the sensitive economic groups of the Greek people, but a disaster for the agricultural sector, that is, one of the three pillars of the development of the Greek economy, apart from shipping and tourism. Who are those who will benefit, however, from the tax raid against the primary sector and the rural communities in Greece? Who are those who will benefit from the significant reduction in domestic production of agri-food products and the extinction of the rural population from its fields? The answer is very simple: they are the same people who have benefited for so many years, the traditional suppliers of our country, namely the big companies, both in Europe and in third countries that cover a huge volume of food and raw materials for the Greek food and feed industry. They will be the first to increase their activity, as it is obvious that Greek production will suffer a huge decline. Multinational food sales chains will benefit, i.e. foreign supermarkets, brokers networks, international speculators and Greek speculators, of course, and big businessmen who have the avatas of some ministers and MPs, where they throw their hatreds and do their job. Of course, permanently damaged are Greek farmers, farmers and food workers, domestic suppliers of agricultural supplies in seeds, fertilisers, medicines, machinery, etc., Greek exporters, Greek consumers, and finally the Greek State, which will have incalculable profits from VAT and a reduction in turnover. The increase in imports, even in products where our country has been self-sufficient over time, will increase its trade balance and will lead to unemployment by a number of young farmers who are unable to cope with the disastrous new tax raid. These thoughts arise from specific elements of ELSTAT for 2014 by Mr Georgios, who has never accounted for any government - and he is not - who is one of the responsible for our country's outrage today. But no one knows how to talk about some things in here. For truths none of you speaks. So our country imports from thirteen different countries within and outside the European Union all basic food products. Do you know why? ELSTAT said: "Greek food and drink imports amount to EUR 5.9 billion". This means that we spend 30% of GDP on exports and around 4% of GDP on agricultural products only, without including agricultural supplies and fertilisers. Of course, the United States with the genetically modified soya produced by the sole producer 'MONSANTO', which even plays a role in policy-making in third world countries - and much more, for those who know - with standardized foods, legumes, fruits, vegetables and nuts. On the other hand, we also have neighbouring Turkey, which is making huge imports of legumes and vegetables. We have meat, feed and poultry from Brazil and Argentina. We have peanuts, legumes, spices and feed materials from China and India and many more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm just gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Once, gentlemen, we even exported silk. From my village, Amarynthos, Evia, came the caicians and loaded tons of silk and took them to Piraeus to leave for abroad. Since time is limited, however, and I have too much to say, I will close by saying that today is the best opportunity for our country to do something. You can do it if you want. But I don't think why you're also trustees, submissives and slaves to the archbishops, bankers and multinationals and to all those who suck and suck the blood of the Greek people and now by their command you finish it. Before I come down from the Step, I would like to state in the Minutes the following: 'The danger of flooding the European market from Turkish agricultural products'. Do you know what will happen, gentlemen? Prices will fall below half, since Russia closed the door to Turkey and we will fly our own, because the European Union cares for Turkey all the years. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Michos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Have a good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr. Micho. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are listening to you these days, we are thinking differently: political thoughts and reactions. I - I do not know why - from yesterday, but above all today, I am thinking of a title of a work by George Scampardonis: 'All is doing well against us'. Your joy and enthusiasm are paradoxical. I don't get it. I have said many times - I will repeat this in almost every speech - that the opposition to the government is not the MPs of the opposition. The government has something to do with reality. Her point is reality. And a government or a minister who is not capable, has the reality rival, cruel and impeccable. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the facts speak of you. You don't talk about them, because the facts are facts. And because you cannot handle them the way they come or form them, you have devised three fat and commonly in the tactics of governments, false communication content, to have you say and to inspire your political army, your MPs first and then your voters. The first lie, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is all the previous ones who are to blame and 'a good thing that we are here', you say. But the citizens themselves are not saying the same after 11 months, especially after the last two months. I have heard, ladies and gentlemen, many people say that if they had not intervened - you - we would have taken a breath with the time the economy had at the end of 2014. That's what those close to the economy say. Those who are farther than its day-to-day operation, civil servants, people who believed you about the abolition of HISPIA, people who believed you about the thirteenth pension, people who believed you, but believed you in the end for the equivalents, they say other things, they say you fooled them. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard one - two dear majority colleagues say that 'equivalently, why do you say so? We found it. We said that we will find 23% in education and we have found" and that colleagues call for VAT in Greek wine - the debate has taken place here - or the increase in VAT in the toys of the OPAP for which the foreign investor has already made an appeal and it is unlikely that you will lose the trial. And it is not just the specific issue where you need to look for other equivalents, it is that you are sending the message to every kind of investor that there is good reputation for Greece that the Greek State is changing the terms of the agreements it makes, for example for privatisation, without asking you. But you agree, but you're signing and you're doing more. That's the first lie. The second lie in the last few days is that they want to shoot you. Abstract subjects. Unknown people, known for being circuits. Abstract concept, too. You went to the waitress after the vote on the draft law on auctions to seek consent, namely the useful fools who will give you parliamentary votes that may be missed. You have come out and started to say about the necessary consensus and what you have said. But if you believe - you may judge yourself - that it is something desirable and attractive to participate in governments. You have been accusing us many times vaguely of wanting to be ministers again, of entering the governments again. That's only what anyone who doesn't know or whoever knows and fishes in the blush waters. And now you're starting to understand what it's like to sit there. And you accuse us of wanting to come to your positions with you, as if it were attractive - I repeat - and desirable. They are not, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers. It's not! These scenarios that you are supposed to be thrown back by some are the same content. Communications about the coherence of the army. Communicating in order to be able to hold the debates in the House. Communication inventions for your Member States that come out of difficult positions - I recognise - in the media. You will rule. The people gave you what you wanted, what you asked him to do in September. He gave a majority of you and the ANELs, where you had the coup d'état, and you had it announced and elected MPs and opposition parties. You will not dismantle democracy because you have difficulty in voting, the one that has been done and the ones that are to be held. Democracies want governments and oppositions. This two-century rule will not be abolished by the ungodly SYRIZA. The third lie is social redistribution, that we had difficulties, but we had social redistribution. And they invoke page 106 of the report on the social budget, which says more about 823,000 euros in the social budget. Let's look at them. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, one of these 200 to go to hospitals, as the budget wants, is money coming from social transfers to hospitals by insurance agencies. Where are they going to find them? It says the budget at the next page "from the increased inputs, the contributions and the arrangements for these contributions", that is to say the obligations of workers and employers. How, while anticipating a recession, will you have increased influxes? How, while people come out of the arrangements that have been made every day, do not talk about them again, will you have increased influxes? Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, because many of you have said so here, this is a case. While there are these increased influxes, which if they exist, we'll give them to the falling hospitals. Firstly, it is intent and not there is money to the hospitals. Secondly, in hospitals, we will give these 200 and another 285 for medicines, health materials, etc., not for workers. Where will this other money come from? It's nothing, but nothing, specified in the budget. I asked this morning, for those of you who were here remember, the Minister for Immigration who spoke and heard it today - the truth is - here in Parliament, if for all that we have to do in December, because I am not wrong, I said, and something I did not see in the budget, where you will find money, since you have not absorbed, as the European Commission accuses you, the relevant funds from the European Union. You're saying if you don't get money from there, someone's gonna go this way. He answered: 'I do not know'. Honestly, but very worrying, very worrying. And I combine it with what you said to me, Mr Alexiadis, that you said here, that we need to find ways of institutionalisation within 2016 to amend the budget. In other words, you assume - obviously, because you are responsible for the finance ministers - that much of what is said here is not going to happen. That is exactly what I am saying with my very specific arguments. Thirdly, there are 353 000 more in the EEA, but not for specific expenditure. To EPPY, vaguely. The money at the EEA is made by transfers from insurers, who will not transfer because they have to pay pensions. What organization commander won't pay a pension? I have constantly called for this money to be self-determination directly for the EEA. No government did it. The Ministers of Labour - it makes sense, I went over there too - are going crazy about this. They wouldn't pay pensions. That's why this ministry has to be one. These are the institutional changes that have not been dared by the previous ones, which you fear of.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u454	Did you do it when you were at the Ministry of Labour? Now that's not what this is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u455	Fourthly, only the increase for the employment programmes remains, as Mr Kegeroglu said, and it stands because there is a reserve in the OAS, after stopping the programmes planned for 2015. They're lies and vagueness. Your budget, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, is a genuine child of an attempt to marry a so-called left-wing idealism, to have to say, and imported unreserved neoliberal obsessions. But you're not good best friends. On the left you're told you're not left and the crisis managers see in your actuals that you're unrelated and awkward.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u456	Ladies and gentlemen, in the Minutes and in the report you will read the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou. There you will see how it invokes a number of arguments that have to do with distorted policies by the European Union to tackle the crisis. He's right. We've been through this a thousand times. We are confronted at this time when we were in the government. The situation has not changed. Now you live her, too. However, what constitutes problems on the part of the European Union and the specificities of our own problems. The peculiarities of our own problems have been named 11 months. And his name is SYRIZA. You are the second phase of a drama, which is responsible for the problems we have. It turns through the European Union, cannot stand. And because - it says - they do not know parties and MPs about these bad policies of the European Union, we have our system, opposition, from 'provincialism', says Mr Tsakalotos. And Mr Tsakalotos says so and they adopt it in a measurable, comic, tragic way, but it is a comedian and some Members of the co-population - I do not want to talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, if you read it, you will see that the majority finds out about Larry Summers and he will soon discover Grisman, soon they will tell us about Clinton, soon they will talk to us about all those who for years have been appeased and all those who have been interlocutors of the European Social Democracy, for whom they have had the worst view. And we're told it's not the right thing to do. What do you think, guys? When did you see that? Did you see it now? Have you seen it before? Because, Minister of Finance, I remember you in 2012 - I didn't know you, I heard you talking here - to say that you would break your degrees with the following economic policies, which were not expansive, but were restrictive. And I remember telling you that if you're right, why in 2009, when we had a giant remission? Why, between expansion, expansion and economy, actors, ladies and gentlemen, are intervening: the market climate, external events, deficit issues and weaknesses in borrowing, co-appointment factors. It is, of course, unacceptable. What do you think? You discovered it in 2015 and you put it on us in the 2016 budget report. Ladies and gentlemen, if verbatimism and false arguments are abandoned, it is clear that this is a budget with particular emphasis on indirect taxes. What Left? The Left's criticism of indirect taxes, i.e. unfair taxes, is ever-old criticism. So - Mr Koutsoukos proved this with a table - the indirect taxes, a recession budget, a political return to the period of budgets which were not applicable and a cut in the period of budgets that were being implemented, reductions in insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u457	Please finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u458	I shall conclude, Mr President. You'll give me another minute. Cuts in insurance, ladies and gentlemen. You're voting for them. Where they're going to go is to solve the insurance law, which is the law to remove money from the insurance and not changes to insurance. It is a budget for reducing the income available for a wide range of households and with a negative figure for private consumption. Today, Mr President - you were not in the Bureau - Minister Mardas told us how much emphasis, unlike the previous ones, this government places on investment. And here we read that 2015 closes the investment rate with a drop of -8.4% and for 2016 further drop to -3.7%. What happened that we didn't do well? Because a lot of things were wrong, I said this in the morning in an intervention, for example in the reduction of bureaucracy. What happened in the last quarter of 2014? Increase the investment rate by 5.4%. To close, we took over as a PASOK - that is our historic name - and as a Democratic Partnership now, bringing about a very difficult role, that of counter-population, which is responsible, has arguments, does not slander, undermine, curse, speaks politically and expects to handle it politically. For the sake of memory, however, for those who have been in this Chamber in recent tragic years, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have received a deficit of 35 billion. And with this deficit we fought in 2009-2010 with success, with drastic cutbacks in spending, with injustices and mistakes, with outcry, at political cost, but we had hope and optimism. And in 2014 this race, not in full but in part, was vindicated. What did you want and what did you achieve? We should go back down four steps so we can go up with you. How are we going to raise them, ladies and gentlemen? Repeating the same and worse work. But you and the spectators will be in this projection. You're on your own. Pray as well as you can best, put the truth in your arsenal, speak honestly. For our part, we are voting against this budget and we will oppose you with principles and tough, but fair opposition and on the basis of our worthy, worthy and successful past, but also those that we believe we still owe the Greek people and especially the contribution to the fight to the disappearance of bureaucracy, which if not done, the economy is not going to breathe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u459	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Parga. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u460	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u461	How long, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u462	At most for two minutes, Mr President. Mr. Loverdo, you don't hear all the speeches. Because when I criticized your government, I never said I was a Kenyan. In fact, I remember that in all the speeches - I am sure you can do research - I said to the JRC that we did not become Keynsians in our old ages. I've said it at least three, four times. I was just saying that in a massive recession there are many forces that can help us with an increase in expansion policy. And there comes your provincialism. For years I have been pushing you and here you tell us what you think about the Eurozone, what you think about these rules. Is it a problem that some countries have a systemic surplus in the balance of payments? Is it a problem that we are the only monetary union that does not have a large budget and can function as an automatic stabiliser? And I've been begging for months if I get an answer. And I would ask for months to hear what you say in the Social Democracy or the People's Party in Europe, when this restrictive policy has done so much damage to Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal. And I didn't get an answer. Why, do you know what your dominant reason was? Your dominant reason was that "The Left says it's foreigners' fault. It's our fault, too. We ate them together. Here's the problem." There is also the problem here, which is why it is not just a demand issue, and that is why there is a need for reform for both the public sector and for tax evasion and another development programme. What the Left has always said is that the main question is not demand, but who produces, because it produces, for whom it produces, for whom you forgot, as Social Democrats in 70', and which is why you lost your hegemony in 80' and 90'. These are the main issues, but you never wanted that. You never wanted to tell the European Left and European Social Democracy to change this model and that neoliberalism is the one that lost in 2008 and 2009, their own model was destroyed. And instead of social democracies taking this opportunity and returning to roots when he believed in trade unions when he believed in redistribution of income when he believed in the social state, do you know what your dominant reason was? It was 'we blame' that 'the synagogues are to blame' that 'the unions are to blame'. And then you ask why you've always been the tail of the New Democracy. That's why. And your provincialism was not just about Europe, but also within Greece. And if you want to tell you why you were there for that reason, why you did not join, you did not change, you did not think that the weather has changed, that this old neoliberal system is not working, it does not have the results that we promised, it does not increase productivity. There was a huge increase in the redistribution of incomes against workers and you did nothing about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u463	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u464	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Loverdo, this isn't a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u466	Give me, Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u467	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u468	Minister, I am happy for this debate, but you are wrong. I'm not saying you're wronging yourself, but you're definitely wronging us. Firstly, if we need a regression on what has been said and done, I will refer you - and I will go to the trouble of finding out from the Minutes of this House - in the words of the Prime Ministers that we supported, first of all, all of our own, Mr Papandreou and then Mr Papademos, when the Memorandum was formed, to see that at that time in a Europe of Sarkozy, Merkel and others, the problem of wrong - not all of its parts - and anti-development policy we have put it. And the Prime Ministers put it, and the MPs put it, and the parliamentary groups put it too. There was a conversation. It was a very long and extensive conversation with moments of turning. But when you are an unpaid country, you are in the will of the one who lends you, as far as individual issues are concerned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the other hand, it is unfair to say that there were no parallel changes necessary for this course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u469	Please, Mr. Loverdo, you're finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u470	I'm closing, Mr. President. I personally have handled changes that you are now invoking, changes such as the establishment of the EEA, which all parties had in their programmes. They have been changes since the 1970s in all the programs and they have not been made. And it happened with the rabies reaction of your political space. Errors have been made, such as the forward deduction of income, but in a country and a government that had to manage 35 billion deficits, not of you who have to manage surpluses, which we do not now discuss in how they came about, but which were, however, surpluses for you. We had weights and you had a lot less. Therefore, my protest and my indignation many times are that you invoke the views of social democracy, the views that we adopted, we adopt and exploit to the extent of our powers and its people. I was surprised by your report to Larry Summers. I know the Clinton times, I know the next presidencies of the United States, I know the policies that have been developed there. You were enemies of all this. And with regard to the debate that I mentioned here, for which you reacted, I did not say that you were Keynes, but you were praisers of expansion policy, when it was tested by New Democracy in 2009 and no progress was made by this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u471	Please, Mr. Loverdo, complete. Mr. Excellency is still waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u472	So either we have a sincere dialogue here, so we can end up in numbers and policies, or we can make fun of the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u473	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u474	Mr. Theochari, man is waiting so long!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u475	One second, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u476	After my colleague, I will give you the floor. Here, Mr. Excellency, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u477	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been here these days and we are discussing ratification of the first budget of the government. Why is this a great moment? Why is this resolution different from every other time? This is the first time that we have not calculated, added and removed numbers, but we have calculated and taken into account the citizens and their needs in the current economic conditions. My intervention will focus on two policy areas, education and insurance. Allow me, however, to begin with a general remark. I am amazed at what has so far been heard by colleagues from the Vice-Presidents, especially those parties responsible for governance over the years, from the beginning of the crisis and until the government change of last January. In one sentence, I will say: Tricymia in a crimson! New Democracy and PASOK refuse to support measures that they voted for last summer, at the same time accusing the government of turning a hundred and eighty degrees of turn and implementing their own policies, those who have inspired and executed the most irreversible memorial policies with blind obedience and exaggerating zeal, those who have kneeled the place with full contempt for the ordinary man and his needs, those who have delivered a country broken down and a society of exile. So they blame those who are struggling with nails and teeth to reverse the disastrous course they have drawn. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few things about insurance. You people who have dismantled the insurance system are now denying the agreement. The Prime Minister proposed that the matter be referred to Parliament and at the same time pledged not to reduce pensions, but your micro-policy and arrogance do not allow you to discuss the good of the place. You who, in your unfamiliar policy of the PSI, led to a collapse in the budgets of hospitals, universities, micronomists, insurance funds, you who leveled the pensioners with the measures that you took from 2010 to 2014, you who threw the insurance by more than EUR 50 billion, are now showing up as honorers. But let us see your works and days closer. You're tired of the reserves of the PSI funds. The price? It's EUR 26 billion! You increased unemployment by seventeen points. The price for the contributions? It's 5.22 billion euros a year. You rapidly reduced wages by over twenty-five points. The price for the contributions is EUR 3,75 billion a year. You reduced employers' contributions by 1.1%. The price is new redundancies for the funds about 250 million euros a year. Add to these the explosion of uninsured and black labor. Add temporary forms of employment. Add the new minimum wage, the reduction. Here she is, all now, in all her majesty, the grim picture of your policy! Your balance? Towel pensions, subsidiary, CSCE, holiday benefits and permits, solidarity contributions, special solidarity contributions and so on. Therefore, you have been: fatal and dangerous disasters for the insured of the country. Our Government took a measure in July 2015, which you voted for, the increase in the contribution of health care. We are determined to fight for insurance in other ways, to promote our own reform - beyond the memoranda - for a system of sustainable and fair, where the necessary savings will not be achieved once again by the reduction in pensions. I now come to education, ladies and gentlemen, and list our important initiatives. We broaden the range of options for candidates for admission to HEI or TEI. We are democratising the process of selecting managers of primary and secondary education, without choosing our own people, as you have done. We hire twenty-two thousand six hundred alternates against eighteen thousand five hundred last year with a 25% increase. I am referring in particular to the schools of Special Education, where the increase in teachers and assistant staff reaches 50% compared to last year. The criticism that comes from your seat, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is not just unfair, is zero and destructive. Who can forget that four whole years since 2010, there have been only a thousand recruits, while in these years twenty-five thousand teachers have been retired in total? Who can forget how Mr. Loverdos, Mrs Diamantopoulou, Mr. Arvanitopoulos, dealt with the aptitude of Mr. Arvanitopoulos? Who can forget the mergers and the closure of about two thousand schools, as well as the availability of teachers of TEE? I'm on the list. We return the teachers you have made available to the PSAs and set up sections with an increase of students in PSAs by 25% this year. I note with emphasis that under suffocating budgetary discipline we have a stable rate of funds for education at 2.8% of GDP. In the light of these circumstances, there has been provision for the minimum amount of funding for student care. We, ladies and gentlemen, are dealing with the serious consequences of the crisis affecting students and students, without considering that we are responding as far as is necessary. Allow me to make a special reference to the compensatory policy measures implemented by the government to deal with acute poverty, strengthening teaching and quarantine at school, covering 11 000 pupils in schools that do not have canteens. Finally, I would like to refer to a prominent long-standing initiative of our Government and the relevant Ministry of Education, the launch of the national social dialogue on education, aimed at finding points of convergence between the political forces of the place. Ladies and gentlemen, education cannot be the field of micro-party calculations and barren party controversies. It is not meant to exercise a micropolitical on the backs of the new generation. We believe that there are fundamental issues on which we can reach agreement, despite our differences. There is, ladies and gentlemen, the least common denominator. That is what our initiative for national dialogue is about. But here we are talking about raw blackmail on your part, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK. You're even setting terms out unreasonable to get into dialogue. You demand that the House stop legislating on education. You demand that the production of legislative work be stopped as long as the dialogue lasts, when, in general, there are pressing, urgent needs, there are issues that need to be resolved here and now. Who do you think you're misleading? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, none of us Members of the Co-Population are happy with all the arrangements under discussion in the budget. We didn't come to vomit. We are not here to show the white black, even putting the common sense under test. We're not here to decorate. We are not here to follow your own treacherous lies and political amoralism. These are your trophys.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u478	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u479	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one sentence. In the present circumstances, I think that the budget under discussion is out of the question of the as much as possible rationalized and balanced allocation of resources. The 2016 state budget has been drawn up on the basis of budgetary coercive, but with vision and at the same time realism. In full consciousness of the coercion set by the juncture, I am very aware of it, but also with hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, too. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for twelve minutes, to say your staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the World Disabled People Day. I met them outside the House this morning. And in this area your Government, like the previous ones - not to be unfair - has no strategy. In my proposal "restart now" I proposed, here from the Step of the Parliament, ten axes for Greece to exit the crisis. The ninth was the social state that aims to achieve concrete results. That is where I proposed targeting social benefits through the creation of a single body of performance to the beneficiaries. Today I propose the reorder of the current obsolete system for the classification of diseases in disability rates. We need to have a modern, personalised classification system based on the mobility, mental, communication or other difficulties of every person with disabilities, an integrated support system for our fellow citizens with problems, which will help their integration into the economic and social lives of the place, but also support them for their increased needs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in the constellation of consensus. Mr. Tsipras brought her on Saturday and Tuesday to the parliamentary group spoke about barking dogs. Quickly, we're out of consensus! How will he get the party of the split consensus? The party that he thinks we have a civil war? If you want to be useful - which I doubt - please apologise to the Greek people. Not for your wrong assessments, not for your countless lies, not even for your assholes. Ask for apologies because for five years now you have closed down every piece of consensus. You didn't tell the Greek people that there was no way out of the crisis if we weren't all united. Thieves, donors, privileged, class enemies, only that's what you saw and see everywhere. But let us accept that you saw the light on the road to Damascus, how you understood your mistakes. How can we believe that you mean it when you don't do it from a position of power? When you asked for it, did you just lose three MPs? It can't be believed. But let's accept that it doesn't matter if you believe it. Who are you asking for it from? From the old days? Corruption? From the complication? You have just cancelled your every argument, every reason for your party to exist. And what consensus are you asking for? For the refugee? Did you know they'd throw us out of Schengen because of your inability to identify the refugees? Is that why you rushed to ask her? Over 500,000 passed, only 110,000 to 120,000 were identified. If you want consensus to negotiate, here: Come and don't think about isolating our country and Greek citizens. We will not tolerate the national defeat - because national defeats will be - if Greek formalities are needed in Europe. Well, here you go, negotiate. What are you looking for in insurance? Not a single euro is cut off from pensions. And why have you submitted the budget on the 20th day of the month, with a reduction in pensions, with 850 million reductions and a reduction in the grant of approximately half a billion? Why are you lying? You ask for consent so that the pensions do not fall and three days before depositing pension reductions. Would you like an alibi for a new negotiations of five, six months and fail again, as you failed with the zero deficit clause and have a bigger problem and run backwards and ask for bigger haircuts? No, you won't find any accomplices. In the end, though, if the pensions get away with it - let's say you do it - who's gonna pay for it. But the contributions, the work, the manipulative people, they produce, they create wealth, they pay it. So what do you want? To increase unemployment? You want to lower your payroll more? That's what you want, and that's why you're going to fail. The people are asking for justice and efficiency. Create effectiveness. Create new jobs. You're the ones doing business. ‘HEWLET - PACARD’ can annul the agreement with ‘TRAINOSE’ due to the well-known problem of the railway line in Idomeni. 'Coupling II' does not move it forward, puts two thousand jobs at risk. If you reduced the excise tax on natural gas to the levels of the European directive, the IOB report tells us in November 2014, we would immediately have two thousand new jobs. That's how you'll reduce the need for cuts. You didn't. You won't. Justice: Cut pensions when one takes more than any contribution he paid. Make the minimum increases in contributions. Even better, you are transferring contributions to income tax and environmental, green taxes, as we have proposed. In any case, do not make any exceptions to the funds or to the 'family'. Cut unjust grants such as PPC and OTE. We privatized PPC for 2 billion, and since then we have paid 8 billion to their fund. Whatever cuts are made, they are made in real pensions, not in the fake 2010 amounts that are no longer valid, just to hide the percentage. Because 10% of the 2,000 euros you got, it's 200 euros, but 200 euros to the 1,200 euros you get. It's not 10%. It's a lot more than that. And when you cut it like that, you're making fun of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing a rag budget as a vision and strategy that proves your failure, which is misleading, beautyling and ultimately cannot be executed, because it has no vision. Firstly, you spoke about a change of strategy in the ESDP. The Undersecretary, Mr. Haritsis, when he took up his duties, spoke about moving from large pharaonic projects to small projects with great added value for local communities. Where is that reflected in your budget? Nowhere. For example, this year's page 92 is popy - paste, copy of last page 133. You have only changed the part at the level and the pharaonic projects were done 'without much investment, we will never come out of this crisis again', words by Mr Tsakalotou on page 11 of the Commission's Report. Three months strategy, child stuff! Secondly, the 2016 measures come from a 90% increase in taxes and only 10% reduction in expenditure. This means that we have a much greater chance of failure and you will be forced to take new measures on the back of the Greek people. You are still increasing indirect taxes against the fairest directs by increasing inequality. From 46.5% direct taxes in 2015 we drop to 44.7% in 2016, while from 53.5% in the media in 2015 we go up to 55.3% in 2016. Then you're talking left-wing politics! Thirdly, you are reducing the allocated appropriations for education. There is a significant 5% reduction or 220 million. The Left once said 15% of education and not NATO, and as usual you put it in reverse here. If you are announcing the recruitment of ten thousand teachers and reducing the budget for the earnings of primary education by 67 million. You are, of course, increasing the additional and ancillary benefits of 1 million, consumer and compound costs of 1.7 million and transfer payments of 800 000. You have to explain these to us. What better proof of the lack of strategy than VAT in the summer? You watched, ladies and gentlemen, what happened, what we lived this summer, like a pool ball. You're taxing the calf. Undersecretary of France, Mr. Dezir says to you: "Take it back" and you're succumbing. You put in place the education tax and an outcry, since you tax investment on our children, when every investment is tax-free. It's not consumption. The cement tax, but the kids tax! Take it back and tax it on the wines, hitting Greek production. But it's not enough and you're putting another 300 million tax on legal gambling, leaving the band the illegal. This leads, together with your errors in the fruits, the OPAP to ask you back 1 billion. For the OPCW we have received 800 million from privatisation and you will give back 1 billion. You will come looking for equivalents, as for the 2 billion pensions that have been considered unconstitutional by the CSR. SYRIZA's tremor train! That's the strategy you don't have. Why is the budget the confession of your failure? Three examples are enough. Firstly, I read from the rapporteur's report on page 21, because I could not write them better. "The recent application of the control measures to the movement of capital, in order to protect the systemic stability of the Greek banking system, is estimated to have a negatively transferred effect of carry over effect in the next year in terms of banking, lending and liquidity, which will negatively affect investment and consumption in the first months of next year", as the real economy will deteriorate in all areas, because we have brought the catastrophe with the capital controls that were necessary, because the citizens have lost their confidence in the banks with the foreign policy Varoufakis. Secondly, there is an increase in consumption of less than 0.5% and a reduction in VAT revenue by 100 million. How is that possible? How does consumption increase and VAT revenues decrease? I'll tell you. Because the tax evasion has increased despite the heaviness that Mr Alexiadis tells us here. If we calculate how VAT has been increased this year for five months - it has already increased - tax evasion is even greater and it eats the increases we have made. Full success the first time left and tax evasion! Thirdly, last year we budgeted as a country revenues of 50.9 billion. In the preliminary draft you did 50.3 billion, and now you brought us 46.3 billion, 4.6 billion losers, if you do that too. You are already back in the tenth, according to the budget report of 1.2 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Why is your budget misled and not implemented? Indicatively, and here I will tell you the following. Firstly, we have a negative revenue and development relationship. There is a 0.7% recession in the budget for 2016 together with 4.7% increase in revenue and 6.3% increase in VAT. This is a downward trend, an increase in revenue, that is, with a recession, we will have increased revenues. Which country did that happen? Ares? When did it happen in our country? I'm telling you. Never. In 2006, we had a negative relationship with these two sizes, but from then on, we had growth and revenue reductions. This has not happened before either in 2010 or 2011 on repeated increases in the first memorandum. We never had an increase in revenue together with a recession, unless your ambition is to upset us in taxes more than the first and second memorandum together. That's why nothing of what you're saying will be executed. Secondly, you tell us that we will have a recession of 0% in 2015. As soon as yesterday ELSTAT revived the third quarter recession, 1.1% annually instead of 0.4% quoted by the flash estimate. To catch up with the target of the recession this year - what you say in the budget - we need to have an increase in the fourth quarter of 2.3% annual and 3.2% from the previous quarter. Impossible and will also have a negative impact on 2016. Let's not have this growth in the last quarter and have a recession in 2016. These trains, up - down, there's nowhere to go. Your budget has nothing to do with reality. Thirdly, in the privatizations you budget the same projects as in 2015 and 2014, Greek, Asteras, DESFA etc. I was young and old.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u482	From last year to year, in a year?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u483	For the Greek wait for 345 million revenues, but last year we waited for 915 million and we got nothing. What about this work at last? How did you lose 600 million overnight? Tell us. You also expect 200 million proceeds from selected assets, which you do not name. What are these assets, and why don't you tell us? You're hiding them? In any case, you have an excessively optimistic goal of destabilising between 1.8 billion euros and 2 billion euros for 2015, while having revenues of 250 million in 2015 less than in 2011. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Not a minute, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have shown with a few examples that we are talking about the budget for failure, incompetence, lies, the budget that recycles misery, which will not give solutions to the people, to the taxpayer, to the employee, the unemployed, the disabled person, the pensioner, the young man, the budget that we cannot support. Everyone who thinks we've caught the bottom, they're thinking without the hotelier SYRIZA. If Europe does not do us, there is Latin America. If she doesn't, there's Africa and finally there's North Korea. There are three thousand floors to the bottom. Ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, two months after the election your lies arrived, two months after the election, you arrived at a dead end, two months after the election, the deadlocks arrived in the country that will finally pay the bill, your own account! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u484	Thank you, too. The next speaker is a Member of Parliament, Mr Fortsakis. We have also announced Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u485	Tomorrow I will speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u486	So Mrs. Koudoura will speak after Mr. Fortsakis. Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u487	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the few minutes I have, I will deal with the issues of education in relation to the budget of course. I shall refer to three points. First, what is the situation? Secondly, what is the government's reaction? Thirdly, what should be done, in my opinion. 2016 will of course be a difficult year for education. No one can deny it. The main problem, of course, is state sub-financing. The results of this sub-financing are seen at all levels of education. For example, in primary education over the last six years, 12 thousand teachers were retired only a thousand six hundred fifty. The situation in secondary education is corresponding. The budgets of universities have cuts of up to 75%. For example, the University of Athens passed from 40 million state grant in 2009 to 11 million this year, with a view to 8 million per year and with an obligation to hold a significant reserve. Even the basic costs are not covered. We note, however, that there is a small increase in the total expenditure planned, if we sum up the costs of the ordinary budget with the costs of the public investment budget. Contrary to this small increase, the total expenditure for the Ministry of Education from the regular budget is reduced by EUR 57 000 000 000 and is EUR 4,274 000 000, when last year EUR 4.330.000 000, i.e. we have a reduction of 1.30%. It is important to reduce expenditure on primary education by EUR 66.680,000, and in particular, from EUR 1,481,000 in 2015, we spend EUR 1,414 000 in 2016, i.e. we have a 4.5% reduction. In secondary education, the projected state expenditures of around 17,420,000 euros are slightly increased, i.e. from 1,525,000 euros for 2015 to 1,542,000 euros for 2016, an increase of about 1,14%. In higher education, late in economic suffocation, the projected state expenditures are reduced from EUR 757,000 in 2015 to EUR 819,000,000 in 2016, i.e. EUR 37,000,000 less. This is a large reduction, about 4.5%. We note that in 2015 we are talking about the planned expenditures of last year and not about expenditure, as will eventually be shaped, which may be a little above or below. In relation to the public investment budget, the estimated costs are increased from 474,000 euros in 2015 to 590,000,000 euros in 2016. However, the expenditure in question can only cover concrete actions. Finally, the estimated cost for the regional services of the Ministry of Education remains unchanged. In these difficult economic circumstances, SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence appears numb and weak to react. From the day it took office, there has been a regular tactic to date, or the unreasonable cut in in insignificant sums of money without any evaluation or the adoption of practices which, I am sorry to say, I will call them the practice of battering or the taking of irrational ideological measures. For example, the decision by Mr Baltas not to cover the costs of our students for their participation in international and Balkan Olympic Olympics, which has finally been made with private money, the delay in the payment of teachers such as the public IEK, the delay in the payment of the funds needed for the operation of our schools' facilities, the VAT decision of 23% that was ultimately abducted, the failure of the Ministry of Education's leadership to find the necessary resources to provide scholarships to the excellent undergraduate. And examples can be multiplied. Faced with this irresistible economic reality, what should we do and what should we do? Two solutions exist and must be combined. Unfortunately, neither of them is adopted in the draft state budget. The first solution is to increase funding for our education by every means, by reducing other types of expenditure, and I call it wholeheartedly. We are in education at 2.5% compared with GDP, while in the OECD the standard is 5%. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government could not have so many millions of euros for dubious equipment that raises the common sense or could even better, taking into account the OECD data on corruption, maladministration and bureaucracy in Greece, which bear 14 billion euros a year in the budget, save substantial sums if it wanted to. The Sunday 'KATHMERINA' 15 days ago had a full list of state expenditures that could be cut as administrative costs, without harming the quality of state services. The second solution is to realise reality, because unfortunately the miserable economic situation requires a change of attitudes and perceptions. In particular, three points: Firstly, it is essential to impose absolute transparency on the finances of all levels of education with full recording and disclosure of revenue and expenditure, in order to identify their real needs, with a view to saving resources and rationalising expenditure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, we must adopt a new model of school and university operation, which will take into account the need to adapt to the unfavourable economic situation, so that they can survive. Thirdly, to encourage private initiative by providing incentives to support public school and university. There is today, as demonstrated by the renovation of schools or their supply of oil, food, etc., by the provision of grants for postgraduate and doctoral studies on the initiative of individuals, but often, unfortunately, this is treated with hostility and suspicion. I, as a Rector of the University of Athens, had tried to apply these in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u488	You're welcome, Mr. Fortsakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u489	I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. To close - in half a minute and less - it must be understood that we are, ladies and gentlemen, in point zero. If we do not achieve structural changes, we will lure the public school and the public university into total depreciation. Unfortunately, the budget is going in the wrong direction and capital education, and that is why we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. Before I give the floor to Mrs Koudoura, I have an announcement to make. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and three educational sessions from the New Selechia Thesprotia High School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Koundoura, Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u491	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 2015 was not just another good year, but according to official figures, it was our best year for tourism. The arrivals hope to close over twenty-five million and the revenues at EUR 14.5 billion. It is therefore a great satisfaction that we have for these performances - a record which is also a contribution - to tourism in our national economy, and that is the most important one. The increase in relation to the previous year is clear, as it is clear that Greek tourism is a protagonist of recovery and growth. We are very proud, because in these extremely difficult circumstances we have experienced, we have fully managed all the issues that have arisen because of economic suffocation, but we have also managed to support the private sector in its everyday life and to respond to all the problems that have arisen. We best managed Greece's foreign image. We have worked extremely with the co-legislative ministries, but also with the international steak Holders and tour operators and all together, the regions, the tourist operators, the private sector, the Ministry of Tourism and the EOT have won this bet. We are implementing our tourism policy in depth four years and with a very great sense of responsibility, together with the regions, as I told you before, the chambers, the representatives of the private sector, we define the course of actions coordinated and targeted, because there are issues that need to be very serious, such as recent geopolitical developments, on issues relating to our agreements and our advertising programme abroad for 2016, but also on the well-established issues that have been pending for years and to which we must intervene with areas such as tourism education and training. So, now we need to put weight on the support for tourism and its development, in a depth of four years as I have told you, without catching temporary and opportunistic situations, but strengthening strong long-term agreements, faith and gaining the confidence of our visitors. We are therefore strengthening our competitiveness and our image abroad. We start in 2016 and implement intensively a plan of strategic and integrated actions, marketing and promotion in target markets. As I told you before, despite this year's difficulties and the climate of challenge from abroad, we reacted immediately and effectively to ensure first and foremost that we are a safe country, a country that can choose for tourist purposes not only our traditional markets, but also the new markets, which we have opened and waited for cooperation. But the geopolitical conditions surrounding the region require that we move dynamically. Tourism is very sensitive, all changes affect, not only Europe, but globally. So we must project Greece, not only as a leading attractive world destination, but above all that it is a country safely, which can really come and spend their holidays unexpectedly, without problems and thus introduce us to their friends, become our best ambassadors, so that we can have the next years more tourists and faithful tourists, who have so far ensured to repeat their visits to our country. We are stepping up our presence, along with our traditional markets, in new markets. We opened up the Middle East, China, Korea and we amplify America and Canada, which is the family, a great pool of Greeks, who love and nostalgic the country. Now, after all, we must make the most of our potential to penetrate markets with special circumstances, such as Russia. The Russians, our Russian market has chosen. The Russians love us. They love our history, our culture and, of course, the enchanting beaches, the sun and the sea, which we can offer them and which they miss. As part of the celebration of the year "Greece-Russia" in 2016, we must have a strong presence in this market and a enhanced participation in joint events. Russia, which is really a dynamic market and chooses us firmly, has had many economic problems this year and we hope - the slight loss we have had - next year to ensure a greater flow of tourism. We will also proceed to tourist activities in order to stimulate new Greek destinations and destinations, which unfortunately were at the forefront of the refugee issue. Refugee is a major issue, it is not Greek, it is European - we all know it - and we would say it is global. We made our debt this summer. Europe must do itself, and Turkey must, because this uncontrolled flow of refugees must be tackled and given a brave solution, because we must above all, with the priority of human dignity and human rights, tackle this phenomenon, which has found us all surprisingly. At the same time, Greece must protect its image abroad. I would remind you that the Aegean contributes 1/3 of the revenues to Greek tourism and we must implement an operational communication plan to show how attractive our islands and their beauty are. We are promoting the alternative forms of tourism that will give impetus to this 12-month tourism that we are seeking. The criteria and standards for the development of these forms are now in the microscope of the groups that we have set up at the Ministry in order to find the necessary safe, stable and legitimate framework and investment, because there will be many businesses that will be put into operation through this new proposal. We are therefore motivating young businesses, for a professional way out for young people, for women in regions and local communities, even in the most remote areas of our country, so that we can develop religious tourism, for walking tourism - it is not just the sea, as I said - the thermal, winter tourism, too many species, which can safely and legally function, so that tourism can develop and be a tool to give growth, impetus and relocation to our economy. Our priority, too, is an integrated plan for tourism education. Unfortunately, in the past, it was degraded, such as the ASTER and the ASTEC, but also the tour schools that closed down. So it is, at the moment, in committee, which is trying to give an integrated proposal so that it is not all inconvenience, as we have, unfortunately, experienced in the past - and to be effective. We shall soon move on to these areas, because we cannot invest in tourism in the long term, without having ensured high quality in education, in training, in a neural sector of tourist services. The Greek tourism market is growing and the more the need for new investments is growing. We can bring investment in Greek tourism in 2016, but we must also have a clearer and more friendly framework for supporting small and large projects. We are therefore at a key point, we must be able to offer modern quality infrastructures, but also to maintain our absolute and comparative advantage, in relation to competitive countries and destinations. We also follow the international tourist market. We also want luxury hotels, we want resorts that offer specialized services and we also want to keep authenticity in our homeland, because our nature and authentic Greece are the one that also draws very large and different groups of tourists. The future of the hotel industry is also complex accommodation and we promote the renovation and reopening of old hotel facilities, providing incentives to renovate in new tourists. Together, with the leadership of our Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, Minister Stathakis, we are directly making use of the available money, financial and development tools and soon, as you know, the new development law, which will include clear criteria, as well as timelines, conditions for the establishment, modernisation and expansion of tourist facilities and services. It will also provide for a large combination of financial instruments, subsidies and tax incentives. It is also coming to correct some of the problems that have been experienced in the past and which we have seen investments complete, but their funding is still pending. So, in strengthening the quality of our product and in supporting entrepreneurship, the new NSRP and the specialised projects that will be financed from the 13 regional programmes and the sectoral operational programmes of the period 2014-2020 have an important role to play. The first project, which supports micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, has already been launched, to strengthen them and upgrade them. Others continue, with the aim of upgrading, not only in higher categories, but also in quality. But we also want a high service provision. Innovative tourists and clusters are being created, but they also operate for alternative forms of tourism, which give jobs to young people and women, who are currently affected by unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, our priority is the armouring and further upgrading of the national tourist product to quality, infrastructure, education and services, so that our tourism follows to be the main vehicle of transition to the new era of growth of the Greek economy. With a vision, therefore, Greece of growth, with work, consistently reforming and exploiting all financial opportunities in the tourism sector, we are working to increase the country's competitiveness and to make tourism a tool for growth and prosperity in practice. We believe that tourism, because it offers 20% of GDP to a country that gives about a million direct and indirect jobs, is a key pillar of our national economy and we want to enable our country to emerge from the crisis if we increase our tourism and our incomes. To convince that we remain safe and hospitable, to support Greece's image, because, as I told you, tourism is very sensitive and "frozen" quickly, in unforeseen cases. We want to make Greece one of the first five world tourist destinations. To this end, I invite you to all work together and to support the budget that the government has submitted for 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Mrs. Kudura. The floor is for SYRIZA's MEP Mr. Stamatakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u493	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wondered several times during the debate and, above all, listening to the Vice-Presidents, the two major parties who have been ruling the country over the last forty years, who really governed these years, who was legislating, who created bureaucracy, corruption, tax evasion, strife, factorism, the client-practice state, who led to the collapse of the health system, what policies have culminated in the high levels of unemployment, who has blown up the funds of the insurance agencies, who has favoured black labour, what policies have young scientists been leading the way of unification, what policies have led to our monuments and our country into bankruptcy. You, ladies and gentlemen, are now asking for the change. And if you didn't understand it, the Greek people understood it very well. The people who trusted us and gave us second time the mandate to govern and take the country out of the abyss that your policies led to. This is because we talked to him honestly, because we have informed him and informed him, explained to him the difficulties and the negotiations and ways in which we will try to get rid of the memoranda. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions. We have knowledge of reality, we have contact with the world, we know why he trusted us and gave us the new order. We're landed. Today we are talking about the 2016 budget. He is our first government, he is the first government to take over the difficult task of the country's reconstruction following a catastrophic process that began in 2009 and reached the top with the neoliberal memorial policies of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. Today we have not heard a single positive proposal, we have not heard any improvements, we have heard nothing good about the budget but catastrophe. So the budget is not neutral, it is not technocratic, it is not a budget because it has to be made and stay in the drawer, it is not to be called into question the next day. He is a well-balanced budget, has a social profile and ensures a significant financial space for social policy in the field of health, education, local government, justice, in places where citizens are suffering every day and need to pay money and time to be able to serve, where unnecessary costs are lacking money from the state budget. I am talking about the thousands of euros that are wasted on public service rents, while there are unexploited spaces that could house them. We are providing more than EUR 823 million for additional social costs, and so we are constantly expanding the social benefits to the vulnerable groups of the population, which are affected by unemployment and the economic crisis. After years, we have provided funds for recruitment in the field of health and education, and at the same time we are using the NSRP and sought development programmes to combat unemployment. We put forward projects that had stopped - and not, of course, our responsibility - in order to stimulate local communities and stop the suffering of citizens. We are strengthening solidarity structures and extending them with, in particular, women's support programmes. At this point I would like to say a few words about my city, Piraeus and the islands, a city that has been particularly affected by the economic crisis and seems in its everyday life, with shops closing down, free professionals in despair, with big works, metro and tram, to have stopped and made life in the center of the city aviot. Fortunately, with intervention - the Minister of Infrastructure - the tram project unlocked. We have set a goal to end at the end of 2016, so the city will win too much in infrastructure and in money. Also, it is in honor of the Minister of Justice who yesterday, in my timely question about the Piraeus courts, has incorporated and incorporated the new Piraeus courthouse to house the new year and through the new budget in a "government" building that has been in existence for forty years in the city centre, where the municipality wastes a lot of money every year from its budget to dress it out and not to see the forpio, which has become the image of the city, has been embedded in the city. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, two minutes and I'll be done. In conclusion, I would like to make two proposals to the Ministers for Social Solidarity, Infrastructure and Tourism. I would like in the programme of social solidarity and in the free transport sector the inhabitants of the islands, particularly Salamis, to join. Transporting from Salamis is now daily. It is used by thousands of our fellow citizens who are unemployed who come downtown, looking for work. So, in the social ticket and in the free transport, Salamis should join. Also, I would like to see the proper operation of the Municipal Theatre integrated into the planning of the Ministry of Culture. The road of culture that will connect the area of Athens to the port should start from Piraeus or, if you like, end in Piraeus. In the Minister of Tourism, who has just presented us with an integrated programme, I would like to remind her that they are also the small islands of the Argosaronic, which need to be strengthened by programmes for their development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Mrs Stamaki. Mr. Jamaklis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u495	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the first time that I have been called upon to vote for a state budget. This is the first time that the budget has been tabled by a government with a torso on the Left. Within the suffocating financial framework, it is obvious that this government's effort to introduce social protection, social justice, redistribution in favour of weak social groups, in favour of health and welfare. Thus, the necessary cuts are targeted rather than horizontal. The necessary reduction in expenditure does not automatically focus on wages and pensions, as was the case with the previous governments' term of office. For example, military expenditure is reduced in order to keep expenditure stable on pre-benefit payments. Social expenditure is rising by EUR 823 million. The uninsured card and free access to hospitals is being established. EUR 62 million is paid to cover uninsured overages. Free movement for the unemployed is being introduced. The minimum guaranteed income is extended. For the first time after five years there are 985 intakes in the health sector to cover the huge gaps in hospitals. There are more intakes in hospitals. The grant to hospitals is increased by EUR 300 million. For the first time since 2008, the Public Investment Programme has been increasing by EUR 350 million. The emphasis is not on the amount of money, but on the desire to increase public investment to boost growth. Ladies and gentlemen, I am of the opinion that the sedative field for the enhancement of the 'left parenthesis' strategy has not yielded what is expected of its inspirations nor will it yield in the future. No one will be able to bring up our scratched bodies in Podemos or the Portuguese. This year is likely to close, disgusting Cassandra, with almost zero recession. Banks have been recapitalised and deposits are safe, combined and for the benefit of vulnerable groups in resolving the issue of red loans. Tourism has been strengthened and a further increase is expected. A parallel to the government's political planning agreement involves reducing unnecessary operating costs to liberate a budget space for financing social actions, for example in the renting of buildings for the public. It includes combating tax evasion and avoidance, controlling all lists, old and new, increasing VAT collection, strengthening control mechanisms with specialised staff and know-how. They constitute the difference between that government and the previous ones. Recent sample is the Borgen list with the elbows in the light and not in the drawers. Including intensification of financial control of expenditure in hospitals. Includes the acceleration of the absorption processes of the ESRB. Includes the fight against client networking with the new institutional framework for the development of civil servants, the national register for public administration executives with increased qualifications and a new evaluation system. Included is the reinforcement of schools with a substantial reduction in secondments with specific objective and social criteria. Included is the effort to make the insurance system sustainable with socially sensitive reform. The parties that have been ruling in the past, and have been bankrupt, may be Pontius Pilates, mainly against the next generations. Finally, it includes support for staff in the field of justice, in order to address the problem of its slow award, and this will help to attract investment. Ladies and gentlemen, 2015 is the timescale of overthrow. 2016 will be the timeline for recovery. That is why I am voting in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u496	Thank you very much. Mr. Buras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u497	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope Mr Tsipras, the ministers and fellow Members of the SYRIZA Congress - ANEL to remember what they said last year from the position of counter-population. They said they'd tear the memorial and it'll be noon. They were committed to abolishing all law enforcement. They promised to implement the so-called Thessaloniki program in full. They've been throwing everything at everyone. They were cheating on the Greek people. I am being asked by retired people in my constituency, Mr Ministers, on what date in December, since Christmas is coming, they will get the Christmas present. Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA, with their corporations ANEL and Golden Dawn, refused to reach agreement on the President of the Republic and provoked early elections in January 2015, which they certainly won with lies and callous promises. For six months they played irresponsible and dangerous. They had a bridge programme, made a stop to payments, forced lending, brought new recession and an explosion of unemployment, took the country out of programme, closed the banks, imposed capital controls, irresponsiblely dragged the country on the edge of Grexit, and then signed the third, three-year and more painful memorandum and provoked elections to steal the citizen's vote before the tax accounts came into force and the memorandum they signed came into force. Ladies and gentlemen, since the September elections, the Tsipras - Kammenos coup d'état began implementing the most cynical policy with tax increases everywhere, with pension cuts and social benefits. It already seems that the biggest blow that the left government is preparing is about pensions. Since the summer they have cut 2% of the principals and 6% of the subsidiary. But they don't live in these cuts. With their first budget, they are preparing to get from the pensioners in the new year over EUR 1.7 billion. With the new budget, more than 220 million euros are cut by the CSCE at the same time. Farmers, producers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, workers, pensioners are hit unreservedly. They prove that it was a legend of what they were saying in the election about supposedly social sensitivity of the Left. We heard in your parliamentary group the Prime Minister say yesterday that it will not be necessary to recapitalise the banks the EUR 25 billion originally calculated, but only EUR 5.7 billion. But we didn't hear him say what happened. Is it or isn't it true that they sold out the shares of systemic banks? Is it or is it not true that he and his Government, by the methods they have chosen, caused huge economic catastrophe to the detriment of the public and small shareholders? Are they or are they not responsible and accountable for this huge disaster? SYRIZA - ANEL Government has received an economy in dynamic growth with a forecast at the time for growth rates of over 2.5% in 2015. Instead, the Greek economy has returned to the recession since the third quarter of 2015. In fact, the perspective for 2016 is worse than 2015. The economic climate and market psychology have collapsed. You can see it. I don't think it's a lie. In 2015, the public economy returned to primary deficit, despite new painful austerity measures for this year, although in 2013 and 2014 primary surpluses had been achieved. The government is continuing its internal payment posture. The government’s overdue obligations towards the private sector increased. The amount of the additional measures by the Government of the "first time left" is initially estimated at EUR 5,7 billion for the period 2015-2016, measures strangling the real economy and dismantling the private sector with an increase in VAT rates in products, services and islands, the rates of legal person income tax, the special contribution of solidarity, the insurance premiums, the taxation of rent income, the abolition of the one-off income tax deduction, the abolition of the exemptions of HNVY, with an increase in the advance payment of income tax to legal persons, professionals and farmers. Also, by gradually abolishing the refund of excise duty on oil for agricultural use, with an increase in the rates of income tax for farmers, with an increase in the traffic charges - these are the days the Greek people are paying - an increase in ticket prices. And, unfortunately, the cost of the measures will ultimately be much higher, since some measures have still not been quantified and reflected. The social budget is sinking into deficits. E.R.S.S.'s down. It reduces the heating allowance by 50% and a bunch of others. What to start with! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute Ladies and gentlemen, the first left budget is based on irresponsible assumptions. This is an undevelopmental, economically ineffective and socially unfair budget, which leads the Greek economy downwards. It reveals the political fraud of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u498	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u499	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. We are very well aware of the agonizing efforts of the coup d'état to make budget figures look good. The first left budget reveals that political rhetoric and so-called left social sensitivity are completely empty. This budget is doomed to fail. He's socially unfair. It shows that 2016 will be much worse than 2015, which in turn is much worse than 2014. It's a budget that doesn't come out. Neither the real economy nor society can stand him, especially our weakest social fellow citizens. For all this, the New Democracy says 'no' to the first budget on the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr. Bourra. Please, Mr. Maniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u501	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister at the Council of Political Heads called for the consent of the Reconciliation. And the day before yesterday, in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, it all fell apart, using an interesting Arab proverb: "When dogs catch up, the caravan doesn't get hammered and continues its way." I will dedicate to the Prime Minister another Arab proverb, in response to his own proverb. "There are three things in life that never come back," says my Arab proverb. “The first is the words spoken. The second is the arrow that was launched. And the third is the opportunity that has passed and gone." Ask yourself, SYRIZA's friends and friends, what the words that have been spoken over the past five years, words full of incredible political lies. Ask yourself what the poisonous arrows brought to very many local communities split and what the great historic opportunity the Prime Minister lost when in August of this year he had two hundred twenty Members to support the national effort and cut it down. The government's calling for a consensus. Consent to what? At $25 billion. which we lost from the recapitalisation of the Greek banks? At 41 bn. the savings that left the Greek banks and went abroad? To ECU 1.5 billion. deducting from pensioners? To HISBIA that is not abolished or the 13th pension we have forgotten? Five billion dollars. where would they bring from Russia? One billion dollars. Where would Mr. Nikoloudis bring? Why did you replace him? - from fuel smuggling? The 400 million that would come in the same year from smuggling cigarettes? The 200 million that would come from the illegal gambling? Why and how does the government ask for our consent? For the $2 billion. to remove from the Greek farmers? The orange in Argolida gives a clear 12 minutes per kilo. With 12 cents, the orange producer can no longer pay either 23% of the VAT on agricultural supplies or triple its insurance contributions or the higher tax you impose on him. Basically, the Greek farmer is driven to extinction. And in fact, the government is not asking for consent. Asks conscientious for the parallel lie of another political deception. You know, there are some people who think that a country can be ruled by tweeting. It's not, unfortunately, like that. Societies bleed and hurt and want real governments. What we have seen in recent years is sadness, frustration and more than all those who have believed that SYRIZA can have a great moral advantage, not realising - but everything is now becoming a slowly consciousness - that in the anointed and ideological structure of the Left the greatest damage has been done by the political experience of recent months and not by any right-wing policies that have been carried out in previous years. Basically, our society's great bet is whether we can transform everything that we live in a new patriotism, a progressive patriotism, a patriotism based on the utilization of the country's mineral resources, geopolitics, its geographical location, its human potential, its emergence in a transit centre, the attraction of private investments that bring new jobs. In the national hydrocarbon effort, we have the absolute catastrophe, the absolute stagnation. With regard to the Patraikos plot, the contractor who has taken it declares it at an international conference that only one plot can the country's insurance system have public revenues of EUR 400 million per year. This attempt has been completely frozen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The TAP, the largest energy project in southern Europe, with EUR 2 billion. a budget, with ten thousand jobs, you've frozen him. The Eastern Mediterranean is becoming an energy revolution. You're in hibernation. In all this, the current government received files of a hundred and four major investments totalling 6 billion with the creation of ten thousand jobs. I ask very well: Tell me one of the hundreds of four major investments that were environmentally licensed in 2014, one that a minister invited her to tell the investor "Come here, I want you to put your money to create a job". Unfortunately, everything's fountaining in the drawers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Wing of Democratic Association - PASOK - DIMAR]] But now we have new things. Unfortunately, we had the first dead in Idomeni today. I am sure that we all wish our country to overcome this stumbling block, this incredible flaw in the exercise of any immigration policy. We hope that this disaster which has begun to take place in the export of the countries through the 'TRAINOSE', where 'COSCO', 'HEWLET-PACKARD', 'SONY', major customers of TRAINOSE', says that they will now rise and leave the country because they cannot export their products. We also had the threat of the country leaving Schengen. You realise that the only thing we have come to discuss is a deep, heavy national slip. I'm finishing with the cherry on the cake. In all of this, the Ministry of Transport has had the effort of the Minister responsible to double the heads of urban transport at the same time as the free movement with the urban transport of police, fire extinguishers, ports, people with disabilities, disabled wars are at risk of being abolished. Is it possible for this situation to continue? Ladies and gentlemen, you are conducting a policy which sometimes shows that he is a fascinated political arrogance. A davourism that believes politically survives whoever tells the greatest lies, whoever is the greatest populist. This, however, can evolve and shows that it is evolving into a political Vatterlo, a government that is very quickly losing public confidence. We are therefore saying that this budget, which in reality since the 'first time left', has evolved into 'first time so badly and badly', we will not lose and vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u502	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u503	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u504	I take the floor as State Secretary for Transport to explain two things. The first is that the Thessaloniki railroad - Identified is not electrified. Essentially, the unfortunate victim has been electrocuted and clearly happened in the Skopje region, in the neutral zone. My second point is that all freight transport and all freight flows of 'COSCO', 'HEWLET - PACKARD', are made at a cost via Strymon and via Bulgaria. The difference that will arise will be covered in some way. We do not, however, risk losing either COSCO or HEWLET - PACKARD for freight flows. That is what I wanted to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u505	Mr. Pschakis Anastasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u506	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, we have a recession again exclusively because of your policies. You've made the economic climate worse. Business is closed and closed. The government is continuing its internal payment posture. Increasing VAT and tax rates, reducing pensions and natural leveling through the taxation of the farm and households, at the same time as the banks are "different" - your favourite expression - harming the Greek state irreversibly and unprecedentedly. Stress, unemployment and tolerance. The Greek economy is strangling until today. It is not in your political account to support Greek entrepreneurship. The Greek, with the exception of few, is generally peaceful and seeks peace. The establishment of a purely Ministry of Immigration has caused serious problems in the country, disrupting this peace, because it is, unfortunately, competitive, as well as derogatory, in many of the relevant ministries. The free movement of persons, products, capital and ideas, as provided for by the Schengen Treaty, is at risk from and from Europe. You have paid huge expenses for the care and hospitality of geometrically increasing flows of economic migrants and refugees and are constantly altering a solid mono-ethnic and homogeneous state, which, with so much blood and pain, were inherited by our great-grandfathers. We have already cut off the umbilical cord, which connects us to our natural environment, the European Union, to the height of Idomen in Kilkis. You're playing with fire, transferring Syria's conflicts to our northern border. Today we had a dead man. Let's see what else you keep us from tomorrow. Recently, the government's intentions to open a roadway to our land borders in Evros to enter about thirty thousand identifiable war refugees and economic migrants in Andrianopolis, so that millions will then follow through Istanbul and effectively cancel the country's borders, which, with so much blood and struggle, have been established. It is a nightmareing scenario, which we are unfortunately waiting for, although we have prevented to date by intelligent and silent moves. I warned you and then, by letter I sent to the Prime Minister of the country, as well as to various articles. I put it all in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, MP Anastasios Publicakis submits for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have raised immigration to a worse, unfortunately, problem than the economic problem yet. You're afraid of insurance, but the identifiable refugees and immigrants are going to blow the budget off the air. And all of this, while giving Europe's resources to its neighbour. They took it all, we said 'yes' to everything. Instead of prosecuting FRONTEX from the Member States of the European Union, we should strengthen its presence by turning Evros and Thrace into a post-training centre for operational services in Europe relating to border guarding and preventing cross-border crime. In times of crisis we must support basic structures such as the Armed Forces, the Security Bodies and Justice, in order to maintain irreplaceable benefits, such as the highest values of social peace and national security and defence. Unprecedented is the abandonment of Evros and Thrace. Burnt land, they say, in a year. North Evros and his inhabitants have left themselves to their fate in regard to their care. The Dumos Hospital operates solely for the sake of the esteem of the staff and the solidarity of the actors and citizens of the county. The previous governments had moved on to fair taxation for farmers and farmers and a social balance had arisen. Before the 2013 measures were implemented, you attacked farmers and farmers in the countryside at a budgetary level. They had taken care of, at the time, the curator, George Karasmanis, and the Prime Minister, of course, Antonis Samaras, for the new CAP. Unfortunately, we have seen almost all the advances in its activation being cancelled. Floods and zoonoses literally kneeled the people of production. The consequences, however, are multiple. The delayed reaction to the restoration of implosions and flooding is giving way even more. Today farmers and farmers are in danger of finding themselves outside the CAP because of the disasters they have suffered. Entrepreneurship in Evros, Thrace and Northern Greece has been left to its fate. We are currently fighting with actors in Evros and Thrace to save the grant by 12% of the wage costs of enterprises in sensitive areas. You are fleeing remarkable businessmen who are struggling to keep the economy of Thrace and Northern Greece alive. I would ask you to stop this departure from business and also from consumers. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like a minute. Dare to exploit legal flows at our borders via PPP. Don't be afraid of private initiative. It's only good that he brings into a society. Create economic villages at the entrance-out points in Kastani Gardens, Ormeni, Kyprinos. Use the NRP, which you have allowed to grow, by simply announcing programs. I would remind you of my proposal to extend pilotly to Evros the island clause as a clause of accuracy. Protect locusts. We all need it, and above all you, who have the signature and the stamp of the state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Evros and Thrace are screaming agony. I would like to present to you for the Minutes of the thirteen Mayors of Thrace, in their entirety, in view of the tenth World Congress of Thrace, which will take place in a few days' time at Alexandroupolis Ferries.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u507	Mr. Purchass, please complete. They heard you all the way to Thrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u508	You have often asked for a consensus on reasons of public relations, which you have never reserved for previous governments as opposition. Let's not forget. This unacceptable and fraudulent budget, however much as arguments are being used to the contrary, is due to a single fact that last year you refused to return to the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u509	Mr. Prison, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u510	...the democracy, as you ought to be compressed according to the Constitution. We believe in understanding, at a pilot, economic, social level. Respect our history and our ancestors who made Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u511	And you a year, Mr. Pilgrim. At least you must have practiced self - discipline.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, Mr President. Good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u513	Mr Cavalellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u514	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the introductory note for the 2016 budget, Mr Tsakalotos states that his successful execution will mark the opening of a new page for the Greek economy. This, of course, sounds like the parallel economy they had planned for me. The truth is different. This is a tax-fixing policy which, among other things, will bear a heavy burden on the free professionals, who are the backbone of our economy. Of these, then, freelance professionals are paid the salaries, pensions and even the expenses of this House. The same citizens that the Left has described class enemies as drinking the poor worker's blood, it is time to finish them and, of course, the multinationals will come. It's probably the point of the case. I do not want to repeat numbers, because a simple reading of budget figures shows that the recession will increase. The public debts to private and vice versa will also be increased. We have now borrowed around EUR 10 other ENPIs, EUR 25 billion, to recapitalise the banks. It would be a better part of that amount to fall into growth. It is therefore a question of growth and investment. Who, though, went crazy to invest under such an enemy regime? Because there is no consistent tax policy. There are high rates, 100% tax advance, an absurd socio-security system and a VAT of 23%. Now, who's gonna survive through this good stuff? So you promised us, household. With the money that has been borrowed from PASOK and the New Democracy, we have not heard what will happen. There's the Lagard list, but it's probably got big names in it, and I'm afraid we can't touch it, there's the smuggling of tobacco, the oil smuggling, which has other powerful names from behind, and there's also the owners and possessors, who are in the unprotected. I have learned nothing to cause trouble for the possessors and possessors. The easy thing, of course, is to crush the small medium, which we have in our hands. He's the civil servant and the small and medium-sized professional. You've cut wages and pensions and talked about social justice. But social justice with first home deeds that will make Greek refugees in their own country, I do not understand what social justice that is. There is the fiscal consolidation that you promised us, but the indirect taxes are more than the direct ones. We also recently had an attempt to tax beer, to tax wines rather than to imported whiskey and vodka, because these have protectors of our creditors. Try any Greek - at least that impression you give - an attempt to destroy it. VAT on the islands destroys Greece's industry, which is our tourism. How will these people be competitive? In any case, horizontal charges, such as the increase in VAT on consumer products, are an entirely unfair tax model, because it affects the poorest Greeks. Another measure which affects the poor is that of the documents, and we must pay special attention to that, because, apart from the fact that this measure is unconstitutional, it is also illegal. Unconstitutional, because under the Constitution the taxpayer participates according to his powers. And what are the powers of a man now unemployed, he just bought a 15-year-old car, and this car was a great cubicism, because at some point there was no presumption? What's he gonna do? Will he sell one wheel? Will the steering wheel sell it on the sidewalk like they do in the eastern countries? That's unconstitutional. Illegality is that you're tanning his legal capital as spent. So you're saying that for example 6,000 a year is the car, and because it's staying in a private apartment it's so much different and it's going to reach an eight. Eight thousand for five years, a total of 40,000. Man goes to buy a house once, you've blacked it at least 40,000 euros and he can't justify that. You blacked it, you made it illegal. Someone's got a boat, a presumption, too. The pool is presumption. I'm not saying the poor have a pool. But there are also some people working in the pool sector who have lost their jobs. So the chain of economy breaks. I suggest you leave the economy free, bring profit through the turnover and not by tightening up. Taxes must be lowered, end the evidence, not ‘from where’ in the first place. The construction has died and thousands of engineers, builders, workers are now unemployed. The farmer and he now have to pay 100% of the tax, VAT rises from 13% to 23%, pays HIS bills where you would abolish it, for all the parcels, pays entirely agricultural oil, fertilizers, medicines, etc. So how will he live his family, when his investment is unsafe, because it is based on weather phenomena, plant diseases, etc.Huh? He has no certainty that his labors will pay him satisfactory harvest. So I don't eat your time, I'm finishing up. Grexit against us is before the gates. There's no way out of danger. We have particular concern, because our partners in the Schengen Treaty are hitting us, and it would be a political defeat, which is rather a pretext for bad developments. Closed up, we're telling you it doesn't work anymore. The President of the Centro Association, Mr Leventis Vassilis, has repeatedly called on you to ask the President of the Republic for a recommendation from the Universal Government of Personalities. We, of course, are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u515	Mr Vagionas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u516	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people are tired, angry and hungry, they have empty pockets. So we're giving him taxes of EUR 5.7 billion. Do you want to get the number Mr. Alexiadis gave you? New taxes are 2.2 billion. Would you like to take the 3.2 billion, said by the general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Stavuras? The course will show it. However, we have said from the outset when we voted in the two hundred and two, and all the neo-democratic 'yes' vote in the country's European course. Because the referendum you put: it was splitting. [[Noise in the Chamber]] But don't take my time. Leave me alone, noble man at the break. That was the dilemma that the Prime Minister thought - and I respect it, I do not accept it, but the other one - that with 'no' it would increase its chances of staying in Europe. Hi, I'm glad to see him. He did, he follows the memorial course. However, this fact called New Democracy has been fireed by all and all tons, such as 'German germans, pilgrims, traitors'. Not from you personally, but some people still call it today. These things will never be heard of by our side. We said, therefore, that we would not vote for an increase in taxes, a reduction in further wages and pensions. It goes without saying that we will not vote on the budget. However, I do not want to say about the pensioners of EUR 500, 600 is self-evident, but I will tell you about the most important professions, socially the highest, lawyers, doctors, political engineers. Doctors representatives and a lawyer, retired people, came to me to receive triple pensions. It's in the charge Mr. Katrugalos says he's going to abolish and get only one pension. They were from EUR 3,300 to EUR 3,500 a month, but for fourteen months. That is more than 45,000 euros a year. Now, with the reductions made in the New Democracy - PASOK - it is only for 12 months. For the three pensions from 3,300 euros to 3,500 euros, they came to receive 1,400 euros. So, 16,000 euros to 17,000 euros a year will you take them down? Unless SYRIZA counts - which I can't believe - that at the moment rich are the people who have an income of 25,000 to 30,000 euros. Nor do the privileged professionals, who were twenty, thirty, forty years ago. That's the real situation. As far as social sensitivity is concerned, I am not giving it to you or any other qualifications. You want to say that you have social sensitivity and I have Mrs Fotio's example. The Prime Minister in Thessaloniki promised 2 billion, but you registered 200,000 and did not give either 100,000 euros or half. And if you give those too, I don't know what you'll give next. On the other hand, however, the opposition cannot account for this because the Prime Minister promised Thessaloniki. And as Chief of Officer County, I don't want to believe he didn't know the situation. She may not have counted her well, but two billion, when they get to 100,000, that's where the other liar can tell you. I wouldn't say that. You didn't tell us the truth, I'd say. But that's all. Each one's behavior is different.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u517	You're always addressing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u518	I'm looking at you because I like you. I'm not telling you. You represent SYRIZA. What has become a great deal of talk is social sensitivity. Missing Mr. Theonas is to tell him that the conservative government did its institution IKA, a conservative government did the farm doctors, Constantine Karamanlis in 1955, and was an open-air service, for three years, to all young doctors...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u519	Don't touch Karamanlis in your mouth. Let him...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u520	All right, all right. Please don't distract me. Agricultural medicine is a great institution that exists to date and evolved. OGA, the allowance to farmers started by 100 drachmas from Constantine Karamanlis, the new Costas Karamanlis in 2006 or 2007 from 360 euros did it for people who did not pay a single euro for their insurance. You're betting too much on the public debt that you're going to lose on insurance, too, a very difficult problem that is entirely linked to the budget. For the public debt in 2005 in the budget we were talking about, I said that the interest payments needed for the year were 11 billion. When it comes to making 15 billion to 16 billion, it will not spare either for education or for health. Five years really came. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will interrupt unless you give me two minutes to finish the insurance policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u521	Are you talking tonight?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u522	Two minutes. For tonight, yes. It's still early.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u523	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u524	So, how did the public debt turn out? 1980 was 25%. In 1990 he went to 95%. 2010 was 112%. The International Monetary Fund just came from there, and things got broken. And the SYRIZA government is not responsibilities. Of the five years that the memorandum came, it has one year government SYRIZA. Secondly - just one sentence - insurance is old history and old sin. I would like to say to Mr Theonas that when they were drachmas yet, they did not give 1% of GDP to the insurance funds, the then governments and there was a conflict of governments and trade unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u525	Mr. Bagon, leave something for when the insurance comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u526	I have counted since 2002 for the euro in Greece, until 2014 the insurance funds - to know what we say - took about EUR 200 billion. That's the real truth. Who's gonna pay for this? So the debt was created, and not as many people want to claim.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u527	Please, Mr. Bagiona, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u528	I don't want to believe them for cars that write miles without doing and charging the Greek state. They say they're state auditors. You need to look into it. And the big question of the banks is a repetitive one. They've been downgraded and naived by the banks I'm afraid, I'm afraid, I'm afraid, I wish I could be disproved. The results will be shown in five years, and that is what I want it to be well written in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u529	Mr Christos Simorellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u530	We are now tabling the budget for 2016. This is the first time I've ever been involved in a conversation like this. To tell the truth, these hours, such words. I'd like to say, in the way we're talking about, but beyond that, we're forced to get into the same logic. We are not celebrating this budget, of course, or doing well. But it is a fact that it is the first budget for the Left. And I would like to say to colleagues in the New Democracy and PASOK that we will have a second and third left budget, so that they will have years of criticism. I also listened carefully to all these days from the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK criticising us from the left. It would be reasonable for the JRC to make our criticism from the left, but to make us the critics of the New Democracy and PASOK Members who have ruled for forty years and are responsible for this downfall and destruction of Greece, it goes very much. I would also like to comment on something that I heard this morning. He did not say it here in the House, but on some big channel, a senior New Democracy official who is struggling to become President of the New Democracy: He urged Greek citizens to invest, he says, with 3 euros in the New Democracy. I, as a marketman - a freelance professional - would not advise them to take stock of one thing which is politically and economically damaged. It's too much. And one more thing that gave me an impression. I heard a strong criticism from the Central Members. I would answer them with a saying in Trikala: "Big bite eat, big talk don't say." And it made me even bigger impression that a big channel had them exclusive tonight, where they, like others, invited us to join a global government. Let's think about that. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2016 budget at a time when it is not easy for the Greek economy. The government's aim is, its first budget to have a social and budgetary balance. We are not here to present a difficult situation with greetings and cheerings. With very modest predictions, less optimistic than those of the Commission, we have set up a budget based on the existing possibilities and limitations, but it is not class-neutral but is characterized by justice, universality and a redistributive spirit. The budget is the result of a year of tough negotiations and unstoppable work by all the relevant ministries, in order to make better and better management of what we have, for an allocation that will ensure the interests of the Greek people. Means such as the social state and the stirring-up of the humanitarian crisis, which had been buried under the austerity measures over the past five years, now go hand in hand with the effort to develop. In no case is the situation easy. But we won't stop fighting for something better. The people were commanded in September. Maintaining the country on its European path, she honoured the old political system and gave the Left and Syriza the opportunity to manage this crisis. That is what we are doing and from this we will be judged again by the Greek people and history. If we see, then, the budgetary target for the difficult transitional year for the economy, in 2016, the primary surplus is 0.5% of GDP, 850,000 000 euros. The previous government had committed itself to about 4.5 billion euros, that is, 7.5 billion euros, which we would have had to take and bear. I think the difference is obvious. It makes sense in the year where practically development reforms are being carried out, objectives being possible. Any cuts we have to make are not horizontal but targeted. We are not directly against wages, pensions and privileges, quite simply because that logic is far from our own ideology. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute. Some in here are with the recipe of austerity, as are many of our partners. History, and very recent history, has shown that austerity is not the solution. Votes to call into question austerity, which we proudly assume the responsibility that we, together with the accumulated reaction of Europe's peoples to this oppression, have shown that there is another way. So we'll do everything we can. The additional social costs are increased to 823,000 euros, 62,000 euros are paid to cover uninsured, the free movement of unemployed, the extension of the minimum guaranteed income and the prevention of the humanitarian crisis. To health, after five years we have been recruited for the first time. We also have an increase in grants to hospitals of EUR 300,000,000 and to supplies of EUR 36,000,000. We have proper management of the NRP by accelerating, deposing and transferring projects to stop the black massage regime, which was also the deliberate delay with the risk of losing the projects. Let us note that the fight against corruption, tax evasion and tax evasion has taken place in a very long time. We have the new list of Rhineland. Three hundred and eighty-four offshore companies have been controlled and taxes of EUR 129,000 have been established and tax revenues in 2015 have increased as a percentage of GDP of 25%, from 21% in previous years. And obviously, as long as these equivalents are rendered, the government will make moves to reduce unfair taxes. Unfavourable measure is the integration into the budget of one unit of GDP from the insurance reform. As our Prime Minister pointed out, a large part, 0.6%, has been covered. What remains will not be done with a horizontal cut in main pensions, as practice has until recently been.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u531	Mr. Simorelli...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u532	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u533	How long does it last in Trikala?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u534	...in a scientific way for the rescue and resolution of an insurance system carrying sins forty years. The opposition, really, why is denying the dialogue? Why do they put their short-sighted and micro-political interests above the interests of today's and future pensioners? Those who have raised part-time those who have made the big scandals of the Stock Exchange and the structured bonds, who have broken the PSI funds, are now denying all responsibility. It's all right, colleagues of counterpopulation. We'll take the chestnuts out of the fire. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not here to make things look good, but to save what we can and ensure that the country gets back to development. The budget is realistic, balanced, scientifically prepared for the first time and has a social significance. That is why I will be voting in favour of him. We have a fight ahead of us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u535	Mr. Kasapidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u536	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, how can you not hear opposition criticism from the left, since you have exceeded your right and went far more liberal than our own policy, but how can one invest in some bank shares, at the time they went down to the unprecedented number of one minute or four minutes in your own governance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u537	Could the poor guy have taken too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u538	The answer can easily be given to those who have such questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u539	Let's go get some stock.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u540	Mr. Papadopoulos, you'll be on your way up to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u541	Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget is being discussed under the climate and atmosphere that the Prime Minister has attempted to create consensus, with the proposal to participate in national dialogue on education, insurance and refugee matters, which are indeed crucial issues, but it has proved to be in the first place a pretext. This seems to be the case with the figures in the budget, where his social sign does not exist, as the dramatic reduction in pensions, wages and other social benefits is already involved, for example, in laundry for example, which did not exist in the previous government budget and despite all your own promises, which you once again do not respect. However, the biggest question to the Greek citizens and concern is because it excludes this dialogue, which is indeed needed by society - and as a New Democracy, we are ready to participate positively - the plan of productive reconstruction, which you in theory were prepared as an alternative to the Memorandum of Understanding, which would be abolished by a law, to bring it into dialogue with all political parties and there to become a creative competition, a synthetic process, so that the country can find the equivalents that all of them want. It's not just that you're having trouble finding the equivalent now. First of all, it is the Greek people and we all want to help in this, find the substitutes for taxes, find the substitutes for measures to charge insurance, and all that no longer makes unbearable, but unbearable the lives of our fellow citizens, because their position is already difficult and can no longer withstand such measures. This question alone can be resolved by the Prime Minister himself because he did not bring this proposal on the production reconstruction plan. But neither will we expect the SYRIZA - ANEL Government nor your Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, who, too, are not pressing in this direction. We take it as a Qualified Opposition and, more generally, as creative forces in Greek society, by putting forward proposals from this step and all public activities, and literally by bombing with such proposals, as you promised to bomb the Greek Parliament with legality proposals, on the parliamentary procedure. And we have just lived through these promises yesterday with twenty-four ministerial amendments, in a bill by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Once again disprove yourself and your promises. We are therefore putting forward proposals towards the need for dialogue on the country's productive reconstruction plan. One could talk about the shipping sector, where Greece is dominant. One could also talk about the issues of tourism, where we have already heard the honourable Minister present the prospects and actions which are praiseworthy in this part. However, we can also talk about other areas, which are not so familiar and which are not most aware of their prospects and potential in the country, such as the energy sector and the agri-food sector. How can the scenery become clearer? Setting some key goals and directions. For example, on the practicable side, the country should maximise in the coming years, but on the basis of a plan, its rehabilitation from fossil fuels and, above all, from imported hydrocarbons. Let us look at the example of Denmark, much smaller country than our own and with less benefits in terms of renewables, which in 2050 will have been completely dismantled from oil and gas. We can also talk about food self-sufficiency, because every year we import huge amounts, seven billion foods. Who? Greece, once able to feed, not only the Balkans, but also the Middle East and Egypt. Here too, the questions raised are how does a left-wing government not raise this as a project that will bring it into dissimilarity and combat the monopolistic interests of the oil, which is the main fuel in the production and economy of our country? How a left government with ecological sensitivities does not promote renewables when Greece is found out of this wealth and not just from the air, not just from the sun, not only from the water, but also from geothermality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Would you allow me a minute and a half, Mr President? We can here - and I take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Tourism - use some data and talk, Madam Minister, about green transport in Greek tourism. How? With car rentals, which will have been converted into electric motors in principle and to develop this system and the network on the Greek islands and there we have many other passports, in addition to all the ones you mentioned, and to attract tourists to our beautiful places, because we will simply have the green passport on the environment, since we will not even infect with carbon dioxide in the European atmosphere. And that creates hundreds of thousands of jobs. Also, food self-sufficiency can guarantee regional development, decentralisation and the upsurge of the country's demographic problem. For the first time - it is not your fault, ladies and gentlemen of the Left - that our country has a negative index on births, births were less than twenty-three thousand of the deaths in 2014. With agricultural production, however, with its growth and rural development, we can create all the conditions that will turn young people to the countryside, increase production and produce to form the basis for development, as it will trigger all healthy production forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u542	Put a perfect one, Mr. Kasapidi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u543	I shall conclude, Mr President. And how's that gonna happen? Just, with a spatial planning for agriculture, since it exists for renewable sources and for tourism, where it will provide for where to do what, with a division of labour, production and wealth produced throughout the Greek region. Finally, taking advantage of the enormous biodiversity of our country, which is an unstoppable treasure. A glamorous example is Kozani Prefecture with crocodile, with the roses, with the lavender, with tea, with oregano, where many young children put their good hopes in these areas. However, as I spoke at the outset about a spirit of consensus and composition, which the Prime Minister is seeking, let us look at these proposals and at the end, let us all sit together and evaluate them. Let us look at the indicators that will be improved by this effort, such as demographic, population density, corruption, tax evasion, para-economy, growth and unemployment. That is what unites us and composes us and benefits our country and not false promises, which are constantly repeated. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u544	Thank you. Mr Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u545	Thank you, Mr President. Everyone's talking about agriculture. All on 14 August you voted and reduced oil and increased the rate of taxes for farmers since 2016 and since 2017 for the coming years. So don't do that you don't understand what you voted on and you're coming here saying it's reduced the oil. You voted for the oil, too. It was a prerequisite. Don't hide it. For the taxation of farmers, you have returned to the same subject. Today I'll give you a clue. When you were a government, you had passed the law that you would tax the farmer from the first euro to 13%. I have here the figures that say that of the seven hundred and fifty thousand who do IACs, who have agricultural income, the six hundred 11 000 have an income of up to 5 000 euros. So we understand that no farmer can pay tax from this number, because it is too little for his incomes to be paid. If, now, you were a government and had this 2013 law that you had voted on, it means that with the payments that are EUR 2,560,000, with 13% you understand that the farmer would now pay taxes over 300 million. I have one thing that tells us: According to the Ministry's figures, after income tax statements made by farmers, the taxes paid in 2014 are 186 million. It's all I said. So our difference is huge. You're the ones who are in charge. We must also discuss another issue, which, in my view, is very important. You're all referring to the factor. Why don't you say that we should have a tax on both farmers, even now? Can we not agree on this and claim it? Because if we go to a tax-free, at least EUR 7.8, 9 000, you understand that with the figures I have here, up to EUR 10 000 will be over seven hundred thousand farmers, who will not pay tax. Why don't we go to a tax-free? To try the institutions because the institutions want to go from the first euro to 26%. If that happens, the rural economy and the small farmers cannot stand. We must therefore all have a front so that we can establish a tax free for the small farmer to stand on his feet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u546	Don't vote when he comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u547	You voted for it. I'm fighting. And my fellow farmers are struggling outside, so we can get the tax free. Come here and see how many guts you have, if you want the tax free. Let's go down. We now have payments. Already, they started making payments. You were government. They are already starting and being paid from 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. What have you been doing all these years? Did anyone blame you for paying all these problems in relation to the farmers? Now they're going to fall into the national economy. Of course, it's farmers' money, over 1.2 billion. Let me go to OGA and ELGA a little. A lot of people in here are confusing the OGA and the ELGA. OGA is the pension insurance institution. ELGA is for production. In the production of ELGA, all the money is paid for by farmers. So there has been no increase so far in ELGA. In the OGA there's been an increase, it's n. 3986/2011, who says about insurance contributions in favour of OGA that there will be an increase in contributions every three years in favour of OGA. So this means that in 2012 there was 12% increase in OGA, about forty drachmas and something and this year we have another 12%, another 50. That's the truth about the OGA. Every three years with this law will increase by 12%. The smaller ones will go to the highest scale. That's the reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I should like to conclude, Mr President, with a note - and I would like to read it briefly - on the redesign of agricultural policy. We need to prepare for the reconstruction of our sector's productive base. We must have these comparative advantages in our country. There's the know-how. There's human resources here in our country. We have the best farmers. They know what they're doing. Our fields are here, our machines are here. We need to find the resources to start this productive reconstruction. We must have a design of commercial and strategic food development with basic food adequacy products. Many confuse adequacy with self-sufficiency. Another thing is self-sufficiency, another thing is adequacy. Imagine putting a target on self-sufficiency in calves. You understand that it is unrealistic what you say and which you do not understand. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, my president. Don't press the bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u548	I thought you were self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u549	Therefore, we need to have basic food adequacy products, high added value products and competitiveness, special products based on specific and comparative advantages. To tell you one thing: Greek farmers are not something special, but we have a blessed place. Whatever you're sowing makes a good quality product. It's this place, it's this longitude and width that makes good meat, good calf, good lamb, good milk, good beans. What's our problem? That all the Castoria beans are sold, all the calves are sold, or the Elassona lambs. So the government, for its part, must shield this whole system so that we can finally resuscitate. I close - the Minister for Justice is not here - with an appeal: we have to make a law on the farmhouses. We're not lifting any more weights, other months in prison for all farmers on the road. We are also appealing to the government here to see the agro-industrial courts. They have to stop. And if I bring you sometime the indictments that exist, you'll see that it's for a terrorist organization. That is why I would also ask the government to see the issue of the agricultural courts which will have to stop sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, too. The climate is sometimes like a pre-election promise. Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u551	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to say this again, because you are insisting on the same mistake. If all this has been passed since 15 August, now why do we have to bring them back to Parliament to vote on them? I mean, twice? I am also voting for it, voting for it, and twice do we vote on it? I repeat - in order to consolidate it - in August we voted for the agreement, the framework, the timetable and the objectives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u552	Vote that too!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u553	In their specific terms, you have negotiated, you vote on them. We didn't have to bring them in a second time to vote on them. That's what's happening. And to his previous colleague, SYRIZA, who said that the budget we are now discussing is with a social person, I have to say that if this budget is with a social person, then Idomen is something of a high-quality tourism destination, and all these people over there are recreational high standards. They're not trapped in hell they live. I say that, since the honourable lady is here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u554	Don't "black" humor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u555	And I hear all this time from colleagues of the government majority stuff with which I am sorry, heavy statements, intentions of good, theories, new path. You're talking about a road map that for the first time comes in, you say you're opening streets, winning wins, you keep the economy upright. I wonder, the economy and the businessmen know that, that you held her up? Stupid! You say that you are solving problems, such as the recapitalisation of banks, which, after their absolute depreciation, after the shock and especially after the shock of the capital controls in July, were sold to foreign capital against a lenty bill. Three hundred shares, please, correspond to a systemic bank which corresponds to the right to participate in the elections in the New Democracy, the 3 euros, to compare a little with what the previous colleague said. And you welcome it all! You are not talking, of course, about selling state participation in banks now. These aren't now. The achievement is only available for the recapitalisation. You're trying to convince each other - probably everything goes wishfully. And tomorrow you will come to vote on the budget which puts new taxes and cuts pensions - because that is what it is doing - while today you are protesting in favour of the weak, who are affected by the pension cuts and the new taxes that this budget puts. So is the plan here to drive us all crazy? I wonder. Is that what you're trying to do? I can't explain it. I cannot explain - let me say - the attitude of the Minister of Government, who just yesterday, after having dismantled the record of legislative curiosity - because twenty-four amendments irrelevant to twenty-vote articles, a record of legislative manipulation is here - he came and told us from this step, that is, every one - 'if you like to see them, in the most official way that a political man can speak in our country that he has no intention of applying an amendment that brings to the vote. And then, 'I am now voting for what I voted for the first six months', we have seen this as well. The government's failure - you know - cannot be covered by these, but neither will communication management exercises, 'we will find something to say', 'we will baptize the fish', 'we will say the cuts, a new big alternative' - Mr Katrugalos - 'we will say the zero sustainability clause', 'we will constantly blame the former', 'we will pass on all this, the world has not yet understood, or has not paid enough, and it has still supported us the power not to lose'. The cynicism of power! But, ladies and gentlemen, where they are not going through, your administrative inadequacy is costly and the country is isolated and the slaps are falling, because the debate has been faded at this time on the evacuation of Greece from the Schengen countries into the freedom of movement of persons, at all lengths and backs of the European Union. We were expecting it elsewhere, and from elsewhere, we were expected to see Grexit. Why is it just the international juncture? Aren't they - let's say - wrong government manipulations? Is it not the country's inability to apply what it agreed a moment ago to do the work on the tools that Europe offered it? You have done nothing, nor have you organised the hot spot of Lesbos, the main one nor have you worked with FRONTEX nor have you absorbed the logistical equipment offered to you. You're only wondering why the climate is getting heavy for Greece. Six months you've been somewhere else. I remember the theories about sunbathing. And now you're running behind the problem, you're crying because that's what you've been harvesting for your days, and of course you blame the opposition, which highlights it. That's all the government's representative had to do when he was placed on it. Like it wouldn't have existed if the opposition didn't show it! Incapacitated by the government, thousands of people trapped in Idomeni! And we have also shown more at times, ladies and gentlemen. Seven months ago, in a timely question, we "wrapped the bell" for the course of major projects, depending on the inability to absorb the NRP funds. And that's where we heard theories. The Minister responsible, for whom I have only to say now, should show greater diligence in his personal affairs - and this is another issue in the affairs of the state - told us that we were in danger. And a few days ago, we had fires on the subway of Thessaloniki, because exactly the contractors can't proceed with it. Contracts have been denounced. All the great works have been frozen. What are you doing on this? Inadequacy, lightness, communication management. And as I speak about communication management, I will say a few words - with your tolerance, Mr President - about the social state, that is, the forthcoming social security reform, which we do not know exactly who is. Because Mr. Katrugalos insists on the institutional abstention not to inform us. He's been to the SYRIZA Politic Committee. Of course, he informed her first of all. He went to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister addressed the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, but we know nothing. We only know them from what's leaking into the press. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And all we know is that in this budget total cuts in insurance will be close to 2 billion -1.85 billion - only for 2016. Don't get in the numbers. They have been sufficiently analysed by the special rapporteurs. But here we have cutbacks, income reductions, in the context of the new architecture - the first time I see architecture in the service of demolition! - the burden of farmers - to which we referred a moment ago - by tripling the contributions of the OGA. Is this all going to happen? Also, we have cuts in the CSCE, 200 million this year and from time to time - all - and the long term, reductions in expenditure in the face of the humanitarian crisis - the bill that, with such a figurative style, you brought us to vote, the first bill of March - impairment of the beneficiaries of the heating allowance, another 100 million minus, no mention of the universal application of the guaranteed minimum income, no provision for a national plan...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u556	Come on, Mr. Panayotopoulos. It's not time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u557	I'm done. I'd like your tolerance. Wait a minute, about, Mr. President. At the same time, we have announcements to increase employers' contributions, when all the social partners, including the institutions, are warning you that this will lead to redundancies, an increase in uninsured labour, an increase in unemployment. I conclude with this: in order for there to be, ladies and gentlemen, a social state and for employment to be increased in that country, the economy must return to a development path yesterday. You just restored it to a remission orbit, because in a marginal, low growth orbit it had entered at the end of 2014. That is why unemployment was then falling, even marginally, and that is why even marginal - of course accelerated - is now rising. In order to achieve this, investment must be made in a climate of political stability, fiscal stabilisation, which is friendly to attract investment. Let's agree on this. Let me see you here in favour of demilitarisation, foreign capital coming to the country, creating new jobs. That's what we'll agree on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u558	Mr. Panayotopoulos, will we compose the two meetings, tonight and tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u559	But - and I close - how do we agree when the person who is supposed to speed up the attempt to find a consensus devastates and systematically discredits those from whom he seeks it? This attitude shows that this is a pretext for doing so. You don't want a consensus. You discourage even those present in the House who are present in the House would discuss it. You're discouraged. For all these reasons, I will vote against the European Union budget. I cannot consent to your unbearable tax-freeness and inadequacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u560	Mr. Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u561	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft state budget to be tabled for 2016 is a manifestation of the open, shameful and unregulated Memorandum Policy of SYRIZA - ANEL. SYRIZA destroyed the people's sovereignty, the courageous 'no' of the Greek people in the recent referendum, and this constitutes a wonder in the ancient Greek sense of the term, which brings newmes and honesty. Memorandum parties conflict with what is less memorial. In a phrase attributed to the Venetian explorer Marko Polo, it is said that fundamentalists caratotize unbelievable while moderate Islamics immobilize their limbs during execution. By analogy, these apply to fanatical and moderate memorial parties, to the Greek people undergoing the process of memoranduming. SYRIZA - ANEL’s left right - right -wing memorandum is beyond question more ethnic corruption than before. This is evidenced by the fact that the economic climate index - which is the indicator that reflects the citizens' opinion of the country's personal economic situation and economic situation - was formed in just 86.5 points in November, while in the corresponding month of 2014 it was at 102.8 points. I think it will follow a further downward course. This indicator reflects the public's confidence in the government's economic policy and its further fall will be an inadvertent popular vote against the state budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL. The citizen doesn't trust the coup d'état. Siomple and his plus see the coming of refugees as a manna from heaven for cheap labour. Immigrants, however, pose a risk to poor Europeans, since they will be their competitors in the future for cheap jobs. The migratory crisis will affect the poor, and the acceptance of large numbers of refugees from countries such as Greece will further increase unemployment. She saw Joseph Stigclitz, nobelist of the economy. When will the checks on capital movements be lifted? In Cyprus, on more favourable terms for the depositor at the outset, capital controls lasted two years. In Greece how long will it last? As regards the threat of extermination from the Schengen Agreement, I would stress that under this threat Greece should react and abolish the visa for Russian citizens, for Russian tourists, Mrs Kouduras. In SYRIZA, with a particularly splendid style, they say they honoured their signature in the agreement with the so-called institutions. The point is that this signature does not honor them because of its corrupting effect on the Greek people, the Greek nation, the country. The People's Association - Golden Dawn is a political movement unmoved ideological boulder, national guard, inside and out of Parliament and occupying a pointless place in the political life of the place. Nationalist ideology is the present and the future of Greek politics. Nationalism means fights for the Nation's ideals. As a member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, loyal to the ideals of people's nationalism, with my thoughts in the always timely version of Ioann Dragoumi that if the Greek ceases to be a nationalist, it will cease to be a Greek, I am unreservedly voting against the draft budget for 2016 which, without any essential provision for the primary sector, leads the country to a deeper recession and definitive poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u562	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-03-S1-commons.u563	With the consent of the House at 22.40 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow 4 December 2015 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work: Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2016".
