ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 10-2-2015, Parliament's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of its PRACTICE Sessions of Tuesday, 10 February 2015, as regards Parliament's vote of confidence to the Government.]] We enter the SPECIFIC HORIZATION OF THE BULLETIN PLACE In accordance with the special agenda of 16 February 2015, the election of the President of the Republic by roll-call vote in accordance with Article 32(1), (2), (4) and (5) of the Constitution and the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, as the third ballot was held in the previous parliamentary session on 29 December 2014, was not achieved because the majority of 3/5 of the total number of Members was not gathered by the Constitution. Thus, according to constitutional forecasts, the House was dismantled and elections were called, from which this House was declared. For the purpose of conducting the proceedings before the new Parliament, the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 32 of the Constitution, which I shall read to you, shall apply. It is the second time in the post-government history that this process applies and it is important to remind the citizens of it too. If the increased majority, as set out in the previous paragraph, is not achieved in the third vote, the House shall be dissolved within 10 days of the vote and an election shall be called for a new parliament. The House, which emerges from the new elections, as soon as it is set up in a House, elects by roll-call vote the President of the Republic by a majority of 3/5 of the total number of Members, i.e. 180 Members. If this majority is not achieved, the vote shall be repeated within five days and the President of the Republic shall be elected as the President of the Republic who has gathered an absolute majority of the total number of Members. If this majority is not achieved, the vote shall be repeated once again, after five days, between the two majority persons and shall be deemed to have been elected President of the Republic who raised the majority in question. For ‘directly’, as defined in Article 32(4), there is a specialisation in Article 32(5), which states that, if the House has been dissolved in any way, the election of the President of the Republic shall be postponed until the new Parliament, and within twenty days at the latest, as defined in paragraphs 3 and 4 after the definitions in Article 34(1), have been complied with. Therefore, the ultimate limit set by the Constitution for the conduct of the proceedings is twenty days after the formation in a House of the new Parliament. I would remind you that this House was formed in a House on 5 February 2015. Also, for the record, I would remind you that the same interpretation of the 'directly' was prejudged in 1990, in the only historical precedent for the implementation of these provisions, when the government's programming declarations were preceded by the first vote on 30 April and the second and final one on 5 May 1990, following elections held on 8 April 1990. Articles 50 and 51 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, which stipulate that the special agenda shall be drawn up for Parliament on matters laid down in Rule 51(3) and (4). The agenda shall be distributed to the Bourgeois Members and published in the schedule at least two days before the date of the meeting set therein. These are the articles applicable and Rule 140(3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which provide for a full five-day agenda, because this Rule expressly refers to the procedure followed by the previous Parliament, namely the procedure laid down in Article 32(3) of the Constitution. For the election of the President of the Republic, the provisions of Rule 140 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall apply to you: The election of the President of the Republic by the House shall be by roll-call vote and at a special sitting convened by the President of the Parliament. The election of the President of the Republic shall not precede a debate. The House shall vote on proposals which may only be made by the parliamentary groups. The Group of Independent Members is also entitled to a proposal, which does not exist here. Other nominations, i.e. non-parliamentary groups, are not announced in the House. The roll-call vote for the election of the President of the Republic shall always be held by roll-call. The President invites a Member of Parliament and a Vice-President of the Committee of the Regions to speak on the list of Members and to count on votes. Every MEP, after his roll call - be careful, please, why so you will be called to vote - says the name of his preference, while the voters note, each one separately, the vote of each Member. Members who do not wish to express their preference in favour of a person shall declare ‘APPROVAL’ or ‘APPROVAL’. In no case shall a explanation of vote be allowed and Article 72(8) shall apply mutatis mutandis. A Minutes shall be drawn up at the end of the roll-call vote, which shall contain the names of Members present and absent, the votes of each Member, in accordance with the preceding provision, and the result of the vote. The Proceedings of the vote shall be signed by the voters, the President and the Secretaries of the Parliament and shall be recorded in the Minutes. The President of the Republic shall be elected by a majority within the meaning of Article 32(4) of the Constitution. I have the honour to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure, proposals have been sent to the President of the Parliament for the President of the Republic. In particular, the following proposals have been submitted: The proposal of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on the nomination of Mr Prokopi Pavlopoulos for the office of President of the Republic. The proposal of the Group of Independent Greeks, for the nomination of Mr Prokopi Pavlopoulou for the office of President of the Republic. The proposal of the Potami Parliamentary Group for the nomination of Mr Nikos Alvizatou for the office of President of the Republic. The proposal of the PASOK Parliamentary Group on the nomination of Mr Nikos Alvizatou for the post of President of the Republic. We therefore have four proposals which are reflected in the letters in question, which will be tabled in the Minutes and which will form an integral part of the minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-18-S1-commons.u2	According to these proposals, there are two applications. The candidacy of Prokopi Pavilopoulos, proposed by the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks and the nomination of Mr. Nikos Alivizatos, proposed by the Parliamentary Groups of the River and PASOK. The procedure to be followed is the one that was previously announced. There will therefore be two Members on the list, who will give their names and count the votes, i.e. they will carry out voting duties by the end of the vote. The Rules of Procedure require that they be a Member of Parliament and a Member of Parliament from Opposition. Subsequently, they are called on the list and in accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary groups, Mr Dimitrios Gakis from SYRIZA and Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos from New Democracy. They are invited to take up positions on the President's right-wing side. I would also like to ask that one or one of the Secretaries of the House, who are asked to remain until the end of the vote because they will also sign the Minutes. I would like to inform you of the procedure to be followed: any Member who listens to his name or his name will be raised by his position and who will clearly state his preference, i.e. the name of the nominated candidate as a candidate for the Republic, who is voting in favour of or, if he does not wish to declare a preference for one of the two candidates, he will declare ‘PARENT’ or ‘PARENT’. The voters will each separately list the Members' preferences expressed in the special list and in respect of the name of the voter or of a colleague's vote. The list will be translated slowly to give time to accurate note of the preference of each fellow Member. At the end of the vote, the voters will gather from the special columns, which distinguish the roll-call vote list, the result of the proposed votes and the votes with the indication ‘PARTS’, followed by the procedure announced earlier. I would ask the voters very much to read the list. I would ask every Member and every Member raised to state his preference, to open up the microphone so that the vote can be recorded properly. Please start reading the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-18-S1-commons.u3	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that fax (fax) has been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, with which they give their vote. The first fax comes from Mr Alexandros Short and knows that, abroad, it is unable to attend today's roll-call vote and wishes, by this time, that if he were able to vote in today's roll-call vote, on the subject of the election of the President of the Republic, he would vote Prokopi Pavlopoulos. The same content is the letter from Mr Savvas Anastasiades, who knows us that, abroad, he is unable to attend today's roll-call vote and wishes to state that, if he was able to vote, he would vote Prokopi Pavlopoulos. These letters are recorded in the Minutes, but none of them is counted on the export of the result and simply indicative of the intention to vote. I would like to ask, in the future, when colleagues say they are absent abroad, not to write their letters from Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-18-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-18-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the counting of votes has been completed. [[Applause from the party's wings The River and the PASOK]] [[To enter Protocol on page 21a]] I have the honour to inform you of the outcome of a clear roll-call vote for the election of the President of the Hellenic Republic. A total of 295 Members voted. Residents were 5 MPs. In favour of Mr Prokopi Pavlopoulos' candidacy, 233 Members voted. [[Upward Members of SYRIZA, Independent Greeks and New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] In favour of Mr. Nikos Alvizatou's nomination they voted 30 MPs. ‘PARON’ have voted 32 MPs, in accordance with the following protocol with obvious roll-call vote:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-18-S1-commons.u6	The result announced therefore shows that, in accordance with Article 32(4) of the Constitution, the President of the Republic is elected by Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulou, whose nomination has gathered an increased 3/5 majority of the total number of Members. [[Upward Members of SYRIZA, Independent Greeks and New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] So today the election of the President of the Republic has been successfully completed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Parliament's approval, so that the Bureau of Parliament, on behalf of the entire House, may visit the President-elect of the Republic and announce to him the result of the vote and its election. Does the House grant the authorisation requested?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-18-S1-commons.u7	The House granted the authorization requested. In accordance with Article 33(2) of the Constitution, the President of the Republic shall, before taking up his duties, give before the Parliament the oath designated by the Constitution, upon expiry of the term of office of the President of the Republic which comes. I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of today's sitting. Does the House grant the authorisation requested?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-18-S1-commons.u8	The House granted the authorization requested. I would like to inform you at this point that the Bureau of Parliament will depart from the House after the relevant Minutes have been signed at 21:45 in order to proceed to Mr Pavlopoulou's office in order to make the relevant announcement of the result. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-18-S1-commons.u9	With the consent of the House, 20.58 minutes shall be closed.
