ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-10-2015, the minutes of the IGC's PRACTICE sessions were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Wednesday, October 21, 2015 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Constitution of the Convention for the Enforcement of the exclusive right to organise and hold a reciprocal racing bet in Greece for a period of 20 years’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS It was normally intended to be debated today at 11 o'clock but due to the failure of the Ministers, that at the same time, as early as 9 noon the Ministerial Council began, a number of ministers could not attend. In addition, they have told the respective Members and the parties that they could not attend to discuss the topical questions, apart from a timely question I have to raise, that of Mr Nicolopoulos to the Minister for Transport and Networks, which would not be discussed because of the lack of competence of the respective Minister. To close with the issue of the timely questions that will not be discussed, also because of the impediment of the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks will not be discussed in the timely question by Mr Dimitrios Kammenos. That is how we were told, and that is what the Bureau has said. We will propose the one and only timely question from Mr Davakis, and then references will be made to this House. The second question will be discussed under number 3/15-10-2015 of the new Republic MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the treatment of the fire of 17 July in the Municipal Unit of the Municipality of Monemvasia. The Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr. Ioannis Balafas. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. On July 17 this year there was a large and destructive fire in the region of Naples Boeia. This fire created a huge ecological, economic blow for the whole region, which is a dynamic region, with large and many crops, with people who are fighting - despite the difficult circumstances that our country is going through - to survive without asking for anything from the state. I tell you, Minister, that of the sixty thousand acres burned by the thirty-five thousand acres are farmed. Also, a huge forest stock burned, a wonderful forest burned all over the region. Ten houses were burnt to the ground - I consult these figures - and more than a hundred fifty houses were partially burned. You understand when housing burns what's going to happen and what's going to happen in an area. There are many businesses there, a hundred twenty thousand olive trees. Olive oil is now on the table and this world will not collect its olives because they are burned. Six hundred beehives, one hundred agricultural warehouses, water supply and irrigation networks of about one hundred and fifty thousand meters were burnt. The state's presence doesn't exist. Apart from the tours and many of your colleagues present, who actually came in the first hours of the disaster, in addition to Mr Apostle, Mr Spiritzis and Mr Tsironi and the Secretary-General, there was no substantial intervention by the state. You can understand that all the people in this region are suspected - because they are now all residents, all citizens suspected of us - that, because of the election period, this tour took place, this performance of the Ministers and none of them. If there was no Monemvasia Municipality, which has so far supported the whole case, there would be no sense of support for these people. I would ask, Mr Minister, that I have answers which will, in any case, ease what these people live and experience three months in the region of Batikas, Naples, Laconia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Balafas. Here, Mr Balafa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that I am here today at the request of the Minister of State, Mr Kourublis, to answer Mr Davaki's question, despite having a Ministerial Council, just as a sign of Parliament's respect for the functioning of the Parliament and the functioning of the opposition MPs, who have the right and the obligation to judge, judge, judge and criticize anything else. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr Davakis, because by his question, we are able to answer things - I would say in the positive sense - in their place and to inaugurate both Mr Davaki and in the new period, a fertile form of communication between Anti-Population and Co-population - is being made - between the Government and the parties of Anti-Population on the good of the inhabitants, the citizens, the Greeks, and, finally, on the issue of our country and on the matter in order to improve them, to become the best possible for the particular problem posed by the honourable Member. So I would also like to say that Mr Davassis is addressing the timely question only to the Ministry of the Interior. So I'll start from the Ministry of Interior. It may be necessary in the second phase of my position to place myself in the other ministries. Other questions have been put before - and he has well asked - Mr Davassis a question with which he addressed all the ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u5	Only in a ministry I could address it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u6	So I'll start from the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. Of course, we are talking about a very tragic event, the fire on July 17, which Mr Davakis mentioned. I would like to say that, in spite of his peculiarities - the honourable Member referred to them - the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, the institutions of the Parliament, etc., ensure that the impact of this natural disaster is addressed. Our effort and our care at this stage is to see the preventive level above all, to prevent consequent negative consequences. So let us say that, firstly, there may have been shortcomings - and we welcome any point on this issue - but in our opinion there has been satisfactory coordination of measures to prevent, deal with and manage the consequences of fires. With regard to these issues, at the same time as we consider it, the Municipality of Monemvassia was financed with an amount of approximately EUR 136,000 to cover projects and investment activities, infrastructure projects, anti-military, road network, etc. There was also an additional funding for 2015 413,000 euros in total for Laconia and 88,000 euros for the Municipality of Monemvasia to cover fire protection actions. Today, Mr Davaki, we are pleased to announce specifically that it was adopted and will be provided to the Municipality of Monemvassia, in the context of the request by the Mayor of Monemvassia himself, Mr Hercules Trikilis, with whom we recently had a very fertile debate on these issues, a significant amount that has already been disbursed and given to the Municipality of Monemvasia. By the way, I can tell you that such an amount will also be given to the other municipalities of the region, the Municipality of Eurota, which was affected by the famous tornado at about the same time. You must consider this as a commitment and of course you have the full right to inform the inhabitants and the municipality and the relevant. I now come to another matter. You are referring - and quite rightly so - to the question of not adopting yet the common ministerial decision. This joint ministerial decision, which raises the issue of demarcation of areas and housing assistance for damaged houses and of restoring damage to these buildings, in this regional section, has already been signed. Perhaps right now that we're talking about having gone the way for the National Printing Office to be published. I tell you, too, responsibly, binding. It's a matter of days. Let us just take into account - and it is not an excuse - that there has been a phase in this two-month period which, not that it has made it difficult for us, but certainly there has been a delay - I accept it - in the adoption of the joint ministerial decision. It's a question, I'm telling you, days of her publication. Just consider it a given, commitment and you will be informed. I'm stopping here for now. I may have to put myself in the second phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I am surprised at the amounts mentioned by the Minister. No one knows that and they haven't happened to the first two. The last one I salute. With regard to the reference to my question to the joint ministerial decision, which will make the area plumbing, that it has not yet been issued, I would say that I consider what has happened to be unacceptable. Let us not mention intrinsic reasons for the election period, etc. In its elementary functions, the state feels that it must function to deal with emergencies such as fires, floods, earthquakes, etc. In 2007 all Laconia and all the Peloponnese burned - the first fire occurred on August 20th to 22nd. I have the 2007 government paper. After five days there was a joint ministerial decision by all the ministers who judged the affected areas in the region of Laconia as firefighting. I said that because I don't want to have an opposition. Woe and woe! Our citizens are judging all of us. Especially should we not take advantage of these difficult conditions by opposition. But I want to condemn methods, inefficiencies and inefficiencies of a state mechanism, which is now being dismantled. Last week, "KATHMERINI" wrote that key functions of the state have been suspended, from pavement to various others. Mrs Maria Kleanthi in my ongoing questions - there is a package of questions that we have tabled for the region, the you know, and thank you for mentioning it - depends on any intervention by the state since the issue of this CSCE. So he's not there, and we just happened to get a DSA out. In order to enable anything else to be declared, as you well know, the area as a firefighter. If there was no such thing as the Municipality of Monemvasia, the Mayor Mr. Trikis you mentioned, his partners, the local vice mayors, etc., would have happened nothing in the area, when both Mr. Tsironis and Mr. Spirtzis and Mr. Apostolos were talking about reliefs of soil when they came, about making direct loops to avoid flooding and disasters, ahead of winter etc. Minister, there must be the FYROM immediately and I hope that it will be immediately printed on the National Printing Office and that the state mechanism will respond quickly in the next few hours and days. Already, rain fell, and the sea was reddened from the ground that left the burnt greens, because the trees have now been burned. There must be the CSR and there must be measures, I would say, tax relief. There's no people who can't pay HISPIA. With what money will the Vatican inhabitant pay HNVY? From his olive trees and the expected income from the oil he would get? You know, there's the oil collection now. It starts too early in relation to the rest of the area. So he can't respond. All this needs to be seen because it's very important. There is a study which has so far been supported by the municipality. Three months there was no state at all. I'm sorry to say this, and especially to you, because you know how much I appreciate you. There was no presence of the state and a supportive attitude towards these people. Only a number of Ministers' visits were made at those hours, well. But in ten days we had elections, as people in the region told me. They said to me: 'Let it go, it was the elections, which is why you did it'. That brings us all together. I am ashamed of myself as a politician, this region - an exceptional area - not to have the protection of the state. As far as the tornado of Skala is concerned, what you said I applaud. It is another disaster that occurred on the next election. Fortunately, we didn't mourn victims. The schools were closed, Mr President, and the children were not on the road at that time, where we had looped cars, etc. This is another case. With regard to natural disasters, the State must not suspend its presence on account of elections or other such procedures. I look forward to your reply, Minister, as the people of the region are looking forward to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u10	Mr Davakis, the problem is not just - or is not primarily here, if we want to speak specifically - to see some things. Some things we saw. There is, first of all, a complete reference to what has been done by the other ministries, the relevant bodies on these issues, and to the subject and to the treatment of the consequences of this extreme natural phenomenon in a sense of fire of 17 July.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u11	Were there any indemnity?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u12	So we've seen what we've done. I'm not saying you've become the perfect...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u13	Nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u14	I want to say something to you, Mr. Davakis, because you insist and insist for no reason on this, overreacting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u15	I'm not plundering, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u16	Unfortunately, no way has yet been found to avoid extreme natural phenomena. There are ways of dealing with the impact. Thank God, these extreme natural phenomena have nothing to do with these social phenomena of extreme teratology, the dispersal of exaggerations and fear to the citizens and the management of this fear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u17	Are you talking about me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u18	You say, for example, that everything is in dissolution. The Mayor of Hercules Trikis with whom we discussed, like the Mayor of Euros, the Mayor of Monemvassia, did not give us the feeling that everything was broken up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u19	I can submit his document to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u20	It gave us the feeling, the image we had from on-site visits, that of course we have problems and are dealing with them. We helped with the CAP's money, the 136 000, the 88 000. It identified, in particular, the need for additional emergency funding. We are coming today as a government, as a ministry, and we are telling you that this exceptional funding, at a very difficult budgetary situation, is given a priority for the municipalities in the region and for the Municipality of Monemvasia in particular - emergency and strong funding, I tell you now - and the money will have been disbursed in the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u21	To publish the FMC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u22	We are all helping in this direction. I'm not saying it's not critical. Many aspects of the criticism you are making are fully given. Also, anyway, on 17 July - a few days later elections were called for - there was a government not of our own but of service. It's a month from the election we've taken. Well, we're not in charge of the Ministry yet. You do well to ask the question and we are given the opportunity to communicate. I'm not saying this as an excuse, but as an explanation for the little delay in the CYA, which, I told you again, has taken the road to the National Printing Office. In any case, I think that we can, in a spirit of hard criticism - of any criticism - but also of understanding, I say again, operate for the benefit of the citizens, especially in such cases of hardship, etc. I think that with the adoption of the common ministerial framework within the days, with the extraordinary financing and use of the common financing so far, and in close proximity to all of us to look at the issues, we can deal not perfectly, but satisfactorily. I call upon you and other Members, one of the next few days, or next week, to go down to the region - I suggest it - to see what other additional measures we can take to help the inhabitants and the region, Mr Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u23	Minister, don't come down unless you have some things to say, because you have five of your colleagues down and nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u24	Minister, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u25	I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u26	Mrs Christophilopoulou has asked for the floor. For a minute, Mrs. Christophilopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u27	For one or two minutes, Mr President, because I really want to make a complaint and a complaint. Minister, you've saved the lot hard because you're the only one. You are the only Minister who respects the House and responds to the opposition. It seems that the government does not respect Parliament and does not respond to the opposition. Mr President, just five minutes before the beginning of the plenary, they agreed that the Ministry of Labour should call our parliamentary group to tell us that the question on insurance is postponed. And because, Mr President, the current questions are not to be made and because you, like the other colleagues of all the wings in this House, know that the insurance is for every Greek worker and for every pensioner, that a Minister does not come to answer such a question without being left abroad, without currently having a meeting over his powers, he is in favour of Parliament, Mr President. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that these 'bad' previous governments, we usually went down as a member of the Ministerial Council at the time, Mr Minister, as you yourself did, we left the Ministerial Council to respond to the Members of the Greek Parliament. It is disgraceful and shameful, at the same time that you go out of the back door with subsidiary pension commissions, at the same time as you go to demolition the insurance and balming the pensions, lying to the world and not coming to answer the Members. So, what are you hiding about the insurance company and you don't come last minute so we don't make a fuss? Isn't that a shame? What do you want to hide in the insurance company and not come here? That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Balafas is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u30	I talked about an exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u31	Allow me. Mr. Davakis, wait a minute. You are absolutely right, Mrs Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Constantinople is here. Another case. Give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u33	It is in the knowledge of the Bureau. I said at the beginning of the sitting that only one of the 11 topical questions was discussed today. We do not regard this as a positive step in the first specific sitting - not because it is the first - parliamentary control. If you would like my personal opinion as Vice-President, but I think that the Bureau is also of course inadmissible, and if you wish, I also appeal to the Government not to repeat this. Of course, this issue will certainly be debated immediately at the first Conference of Presidents. I believe that it will be put by all the parties and by me, after they have attended the meeting today. The second thing I would like to say is that you are absolutely right in saying that you have been informed five minutes, as you say, before today's debate on the current questions, which is also voluntarily unacceptable. I believe that your view, if you will, but also the view of the Bureau, reflects all the Members whose questions have been postponed today. The Bureau will do its best in the context of the Rules of Procedure to present the Ministers, the Deputys, the Deputys during parliamentary scrutiny. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to announce that the first question, number 10/19-10-2015, of the first cycle of the Athens Parliament, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the protection of the Hymettos, will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. The second, with number 2/15-10-2015, timely question for the first cycle of the Athens MP, Mr. Gerasios Yakoumatos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the payment of VAT 23% by the private clinics and care units of the elderly, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third, with number 4/19-10-2015, timely question for the first cycle of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister of Finance, on the timetable for the control of the foreign and economic transfers of the parties, will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. The fourth question under number 12/19-10-2015 of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the government's development strategy, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fifth question, No. 13/19-10-2015, is the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of workers in the Workshop of Milk Trikalos, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The sixth question under number 6/19-10-2015 of the First Cycle of the MEP of the Greek Independents Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the imposition of an additional fee for the passage of public use trucks to the port of Chalkida, will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment and deleted. The first question under number 11/19-10-2015 of the second question of the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Akaterini Iglezi to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the coverage of the vacancies of teaching staff in the primary schools of Halkidiki, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third, with number 5/19-10-2015, topical question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the announcements of the country's insurance system, will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. The fourth under number 8/19-10-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of special education and education structures, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Finally, the fifth under number 7/19-10-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the German automobile "VOLKSWAGEN", will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, let me announce that the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been concluded. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, the announcement of petitions has been completed. Do you accept here that we are adjourned?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended today at 13.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. I am sorry for the delay, which was largely justified, because there was a Ministerial Council and the Ministers could not be earlier in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Unique discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Minister of State: ‘Authorisation of providers of free-of-charge digital television broadcasts - Establishment linked to ERT SA. a public limited company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Arrangement of themes of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts (E.T.T.) - National Communication Policy, Organisation of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of a National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and the Register for Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of provisions of the Law. Regulation (EC) No 4070/2012 (VAT A' 82) and other provisions.’; Before entering the debate on the bill, I will read out the preliminary and a few communications, and after the request for constitutionality submitted by Mr Venizelos. The Conference of Presidents decided, by a majority, at its meeting on 19-10-2015, to discuss the draft law in two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. At the Sabbath meeting, October 24, 2015, the articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed as one section. I would like to inform you that during the speeches of the first two rapporteurs it is free to register colleagues who will speak in the order of registration, except in the first eight minutes where there will be a rotation of the parties. From there on, colleagues will speak in the order of their electronic recording. Secondly, since there are many colleagues here tonight to speak, we will be there by 24.00 hours. If there are not so many colleagues, we will be finished earlier. If there is a request for a roll-call vote for the vote at the beginning of the bill, I suggest that it should be on Saturday morning that, if I remember correctly, it has been decided to start at 10 a.m. and finish at 18 a.m., unless the speakers are fewer and we finish earlier than 18 a.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u38	The roll-call vote will take place on Saturday at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u39	At 6:00 this afternoon, we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I say that the roll-call vote will take place on Saturday at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u41	Good. We therefore agree that if there is a request for a roll-call vote, it should take place on Saturday. At this point, I would like to read a few communications, as the parties have sent them. But let me not read all the text of the letters to Mr Voutsi. The New Democracy appoints as its Parliamentary Representative for today's Parliamentary Legislation of Athens Mr. Sophia Vultesis. The People's Association - Golden Dawn defines as a special speaker, Mr Pireaus - I assume Mr. Lagos, because I have it on another paper and since you have omitted his name - Mr. Bagos. I would like you to send me a document properly completed. The People's Association - Golden Dawn also appoints as Parliamentary Representative the Member of the State Mr Christo Pappas. PASOK - DIMAR as a special speaker, Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou. The Communist Party of Greece designates Mr Ioannis Giokas as a special speaker. The Potami nominated as a parliamentary representative, Mr Spyridon Danellis, and as a special speaker, Mr Georgios Amyras, as a special speaker. The Union of Centres appoints Mr Georgios and Mr Dimitrios Karras as a special speaker, Mr Ioannis Saridis. Now I would like to read Mr Venizelos' written request: "Mr President, please allow me to speak on the start of the debate on the draft law: “Authorisation of providers of terrestrial digital television content, etc.”, in order to raise objections to its constitutionality, in accordance with Rule 100 of Parliament’s Rules of Procedure”. I propose to you this: firstly, that Mr Venizelos be given the floor for five minutes so that he can develop the content of the speech of unconstitutionality as well. Then there are two streets. Whether we are going to enter the debate immediately or because it is not written in order to illustrate what Mr Venizelos is going to develop - and to distribute it to you, to speak to the first two rapporteurs, to sign up to colleagues and then to put to the main debate by saying and contemplating the issue that Mr Venizelos will raise at the beginning. Whether or not the procedure will be immediately after Mr Venizelos or immediately after the first two rapporteurs, we will decide after hearing Mr Venizelos. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, Article 14(9) of the country's current constitution, which I had the honour of proposing in 2001 and of voting by a vast majority in the then Z' Greek Penal Review House, imposes very specific rules and very clear institutional guarantees for electronic media. The fundamental rule is to ensure transparency and pluralism, and this is specific to the obligation to know the means of financing, the ownership status and the financial situation of the media, to ban concentration and, more specifically, to ban more than an electronic media and, of course, to impose incompatible activities between the ownership and the electronic media management and other activities related to the public and the wider public sector. One would expect, after what Mr Tsipras and his Government had said repeatedly, that a draconian bill, which implements the Constitution in an unstable and effective way, should finally introduce the guarantees of transparency and pluralism, introduce effective mechanisms for controlling the economic situation and how to obtain the financial means of the stations, in practice ensures the ban on concentration and, of course, transparency in the other economic activities of the State in order to hit at its core. So while we expect the term to give birth to a bill, which will break down, a bill is finally presented that works as a vehicle to facilitate opacity and interoperability. I recall, historically, that the media regime was formed in Greece in 1989 with very active, almost catalytic, roles of the ministers who were involved by the then Left, in the Janadakis Government and since then this regime has been imposed - there are many problems with regard to the implementation of legality - but no one can say that it does not know which businessman, which business entity controls which television station in Greece and especially the national central stations. We all know who's who. It's known who can influence it. We know who's dealing with the public. I must also tell you that the interpretation finally given by the Court of Justice of the European Union and by the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State, between 2008 and 2011, in Article 14(9), in relation to the incompatibilities, is what I have been saying in the House since 2001, which allows for the harmonisation of national constitutions and European Community law. The bill is falsified and, while emitting the vibrant "in front, eat opacity and complexity", forms the legislative conditions to create the so-called "new fireplaces" in the information field, i.e. to install unknown and uncontrolled business interests, which may be traded with the Government or with any other, but there is no possibility of control. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] More specifically, the provision of Articles 4-5 of the bill is unconstitutional, because through the so-called denomination of the shares, so many exceptions are introduced that in the end any non-Greek company, whatever form it can control a national television station with information and political content and not know who it is. There is this paradox. While for the prohibition of concentration and for the issues of the so-called main shareholder, the draft law refers to the legislation in force, it changes the wording of the legislation on denomination. So while the shares are supposed to be nominal, they can operate business entities that we don't know who's who. If we don't know who it is, you can't control the concentration or the incompatibility or all the other institutional requirements of the Constitution. Why does it not refer to existing legislation and to denomination but changes this crucial point that catalyses all other guarantees? And to say this: In our time, can we speak, in 2015, about the rule of denomination when he internationally offers nothing? It must be introduced into the draft law that the National Broadcasting Council uses internationally experienced audit companies, which draft for each candidate report on who is really the one with the business control and what financial instruments are. There are experienced specialised companies, which can present the real picture regardless of legal form, import it into the Stock Exchange, nominalisation, without any barriers. It's a real thing. Who's he controlling? We hear things about foreign companies, about interests associated with other countries. Well, here's Rhodes, here's the fuck. Second unconstitutionalism. Article 2 provides for a limited number of licences resulting from the map of frequencies and the number of licences and lays down by the Minister. This is first of all contrary to the constitutional rules governing the legislative authority referred to in Article 43(2) of the Constitution. Where authorisation is granted for such an important issue that is not more specific technical or detailed, a regulatory presidential decree is required to mediate the opinion and review of the Council of State. That's a cryptic. But also in substance, the frequency map and the number of licences must be linked to digital reality rather than to the proportion of the 1990s or 1980s. There is no frequency scarce now. Frequency maps should therefore be set by decree to provide the greatest possible number of permits. Otherwise, the rule of pluralism, Article 14 of the Constitution, Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights is violated. Why do many permits scare us? The market will determine how many will survive. But you can't limit it in the first place. Survival may not be purely business, because they may want social entities to be expressed beneficial and non-profit-making. Third great unconstitutionality. The responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council are essentially limited. However, Article 15(2) of the Constitution explicitly and directly confers supervision on the National Broadcasting Council on electronic media and not on the Minister, apart from the fact that the legislation is now breaking down control between the National Broadcasting Council, the Competition Commission for Mergers and the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, which is not constitutionally regulated but is also subject to Article 18 of the plan. Its members are under the threat of the relevant Minister for Infrastructure by changing the disciplinary regime. We therefore also have a problem of safeguarding the National Broadcasting Council which must finally be set up legally and systematicly. Fourth issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u43	Mr. President, let's get it together, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u44	I'm done. The fixing of the price by tendering procedure per authorisation. What does that mean? This also violates the rule of control of economic instruments and pluralism. Why auction per licence and not as a whole? The total number of licences does not fix the price? Is it the same thing to have a license, and the same thing to have ten permits? What is more, when the price exceeds the economic logic, market strength, the size of advertising, why should a businessman pay a price higher than the profit expectation he has? For some reason political, for some reason that serves interests that are non-transparent, because transparency means to withstand financially, through the operation of the market. Otherwise, what do you want to do? Why are you spending and investing money? This is therefore a very important issue referred to in Article 14(9). Last issue, the existing companies have emerged as they have emerged. It's known. They are six national television channels, they have staff, they have tax and insurance obligations to cover the public and the public has a reasonable interest in recovering. There are bank and other outstanding loans. In the draft law there is no transitional legislation, there is no time-consuming law, there is no provision for what is going on with existing businesses, not from the point of view of business but from the point of view of workers, from the point of view of the funds, from the point of view of the State's tax claim and from the point of view of banks belonging to the State's portfolio, and they will belong even further after the recapitalisation. This violates both the rule of law and the principle of proportionality which are constitutionally guaranteed as fundamental principles of the system of Greek legal order...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u46	...and a mechanism of constant blackmail and pressure, because until the interests that are being prepared and organized are being removed and the government knows them but Parliament and public opinion ignores them, new fireplaces are being threatened, and this can last too long. I close with an observation of moral and historical nature. A man’s authority is indicated and when I say a man, I mean every politician and every public person. So, the Prime Minister, the Minister, the government now faces the questions that have been asked very well over the past few years. Previous ones, old ones, bad guys...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, you have put me in a very difficult position. Please, hang up. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u48	So the government retreats in a manner which is gratuitous to unknown interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u50	...and the bill encourages these instead of stirring them up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Venizelo, please. Well, because the whole thing has developed, in my view very serious, and because I was assured by the Director-General that there is the possibility during which the first two rapporteurs will speak - I make it as a suggestion - that the sloppy Minutes should be distributed to the speakers and conceivers and as soon as the second rapporteur has finished, we are stopping the process and entering the debate on unconstitutionality. Unless you don't want that, because the Rules of Procedure give the right to start the debate now. I believe that because I had not been able to inform you, because Mr Venizelos' request came to the Bureau a few minutes before we started, so that you were prepared, that the most sensible and essential thing is that the two rapporteurs should speak, that Mr Venizelos' position should be taken out, that the speakers and confronters should be taken off and that, before we enter the third speaker, we should start the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u52	There's no need to get the Minutes out. They won't make it through the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u53	Does the parties' representatives agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u54	We agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u55	Okay. Please, it will be a little pressure for the children of Parliament's services, but we will do so. Okay, so we're entering the first two. I repeat, colleagues can be registered during the speech of the first two rapporteurs. The first eight will be in rotation and then, as I told you, in the order of registration with your electronic card. Before I give Mr Lappa the floor, let me remind you of the time. The Minister has eighteen minutes of prototype. The Prime Minister and the President of the New Democracy from twenty minutes and the rest of the Heads from 15 minutes. Parliamentary Representatives in their prototype 12 minutes and the rapporteurs as well as the special speaker 15 minutes. Mr. Lappa, start please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u56	Mr. President, may I? I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u57	What about, Mr. Carras?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u58	To the subject of printing. If he prints at the end of the second rapporteur, we won't have time to study...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u59	All right, Mr. Carras. They'll do what the kids can. We can't put the noose in their throats.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u60	It's just, if there's any possibility of being given...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u61	As soon as possible. We're doing it for service. After all, you will speak in your turn last, so thirty minutes after the start. So you'll have time to read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u62	But you don't have to get the Minutes out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Lappa, start, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are going through a time of huge technological explosion. The achievements of the past twenty or thirty years in technology are perhaps a balance between the achievements of the previous centuries of history. The possibilities provided by the new technology have radically changed the image of human communication and substantially alter the terms of social developments and thus the course of human history. The social and political power is now in technology. Anyone who owns it can influence social developments. Battles at all levels are won exclusively by technological superiority. In the field of information, information and dissemination of ideas, therefore, power is refocused on technology. The most technically perfect information system is, of course, television, since it can transmit the news at the very moment when the event occurs in the last corner of the Earth, thus zeroing space and time and giving a global dimension to history. All the people of the Earth are players and spectators in the same world theatre room and scene of history, except that the work that is played on this world stage every time is not usually defined by us or by us, but by the powerful director of information. It is unanimously accepted that information is not just an encyclopedic information about the perfection of every person at his educational level but has enormous political significance and function and in that sense, it should normally be the people, who are still the main body of political power, to rule over it. But that is not the case or it is not exactly what is happening, since the will of the people to use their political power is not freely determined by themselves but is directed by the person who can influence it. And it is understandable that he who informs the people, informs him, gives him the material for forming his will and his opinion. And the crucial question is. Who has this huge power to influence the will and opinion of the people and ultimately to influence and control political developments? In a democratic society in which the institutions function and the judgments of the Supreme Courts are implemented, SMEs should by definition belong to collectives of a strong public character and directly controlled by the people. But that is not the case, since today SMEs belong to businessmen who are asymmetrically intertwined with banks and the political system have gained enormous power and have led to information and information on unbelievable decline and dismantling. So, once again, a liberal conquest, with abusive use of technology, has led to a risk to the freedom of the citizen itself, which is supposed to express it and support it. In principle, SMEs would have to perform an important function in a democratic society, which is why they are gaining enormous power in their exercise. They are bodies of the free dissemination of ideas, the cultivation of art and science, religious beliefs, the direct information and information of citizens, it is a means of communicating people with public debates and, above all, a means of controlling its power and the way it is exercised. But things in our country have evolved by diverting the role, operation and purpose of SMEs to legal, economic and business entities of misinformation, interoperable, sub-culture and deprivation of everything. They have mostly been excavated to shredders other than legality, since for twenty-five years they have been essentially operating within the limits of the tolerance of the state, without, until now, obtaining the necessary administrative permit for the use of frequencies, which are public goods, and as such, they do not mean illegal use of them. And there is a lack of legality, because so far none of the channels known to the media have been licensed. And here we have a direct violation of Article 15 of the Constitution, since, in a rule of law, the legality of the operation of SMEs is a sine qua non, a term not without a condition for the functioning of democracy. The authorisation will ensure pluralism, the objective and equal transmission of information and news, as laid down in Article 15 of the Constitution, the strengthening of the social mission of television and the strengthening of the cultural development of the country, with a view to respecting the human value, as set out in Article 2(1) of the Constitution, as the supreme constitutional authority, and the protection of the citizen. When only a simple reading and viewing of the decisions of the CoR, we would say that the original interpretation of the provision of Article 15 of the Constitution sets out as the aim in principle the provision of reliable and valid information to the society as a whole, the provision of information to citizens at all parts of the Greek territory in an objective and multi-speaking manner, and on the basis of the principles of equality and respect, but also the movement of all ideas and views developed in a pluralist democratic society. It aims to create up-to-date, repeats the CSR, conscious and mature citizens, who have multi-faceted and comprehensive information, critical thinking and free democratic thinking, which are the prerequisite for the uninterrupted functioning of our democratic culture. Furthermore, it says the CoR, Article 15 of the Constitution aims to raise the cultural level of citizens, to broadcast high-quality, programmatic diversity programmes, not only for their entertainment, but also because the high cultural level also contributes to the creation of mature and free democratic citizens. Today, it is apparent from the lessons of the joint experience, based on the already twenty-five years of operation of private television, mainly in Greece, but also on international data, that these private broadcasters often offer a very low level of broadcasting product, which is the easiest impression, cultural poverty and an increase in all possible ways of listening only, at the expense of the quality and objectivity, but also the soberness of the information provided. In fact, with the prevailing trend of creating ever more monopolistic situations in the space, citizens are fully manipulated and converted into simple consumers of information and messages. The bill we are debating, ladies and gentlemen, sets like a headline and, above all, basic at the core of the philosophy of the objective, transparency at all levels. This situation that I described to you before it has to change immediately and that is what is being done with this bill, with the introduction of transparency rules, which is the point. Transparency everywhere, as the Minister of State said yesterday and the day before yesterday, Mr Poppas. Transparency everywhere, this is our political account, this is our political commitment. Transparency in the functioning of our democratic culture, transparency in competition, transparency in labour relations. Transparency at all three levels finds expression and is implemented in this bill, which aims to lay solid and effective rules and bases on the existing cloudy and sick television field. That is what we will do. Let the citizens be assured of this and there is no doubt about it. Transparency in the functioning of our democratic culture requires, first of all, that the content providers are familiar with their names, that they are informed by the television audience, that they are actually informed. Therefore, they should know all the elements of the content providers as long as they inform them. If they are hidden, if they are unable to show fiscal, insurance and banking information in any case, if they conclude contracts with the public, then they cannot and should not have the right to deal with citizens' information, training and entertainment. What I am referring to is, for example, the conditions that need to be laid down for becoming a provider. Because the information, training and entertainment of citizens through television is a public asset, which the legislator has an obligation to safeguard as a supreme public good and to ensure all possible conditions for citizens to be provided intact and transparent. Secondly, the level of transparency. Transparency in competition. It is a second big issue that attempts in this bill to ensure that this issue has both its legal and ethical aspects. Here, let us make a case of work. The neoliberal concept and political aspect would, I say, be well-founded in the past twenty-five years of peculiarity or better after twenty-five years of peculiarity, in our view, that the market would have been self-regulation, as they said thirty years ago, even as we were still in the analogue era of SMEs. But what, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that everything is self-regulating from the market? Unless we consider ourselves to be self-regulation of the well-known conditions of the wild West and Far West - West, conditions of economic and television jungle, conditions of absolute decline and deception. The only self-regulation that took place was the incredible build-up of debts from continuous and provocative for the convenience of lending, which was the result of the interoperable media, banks and political system, with the removal of any working protective regime. Minister, it would indeed be interesting here to know the result of the latest checks by labour inspectors on known channels, to see what emerged from the checks, when anyone, the last free worker, cannot obtain a loan of EUR 1. Today, with this data, who can claim that the market will only regulate itself because we are just passing through the analogue in the digital age? No one can claim it anymore because no one believes either the last citizen. The state's legislative intervention for the lifting of this ill television scene is necessary not only for political reasons but also for the demands and orders of the Supreme Court itself, the TEC. It is a political, social and institutional cheque. The aim of this legislative intervention is, among other things, that digital signal providers should know who their customers are, namely, content providers - that is, television channels in a few words - under which conditions they operate and whether they are reliable or not, according to taxation, insurance, banking information and all the other elements that our bill defines and requires. In this sense, licensing is absolutely essential, and that is something that European experience, even in the digital age, is proof of. We would say 'in particular in the digital age'. And one last level of transparency, which attempts and I think this draft law succeeds, is as follows. Transparency is required in the labour relations between SMEs and there are detailed provisions in the text of the draft law that protect employment relations, as we will analyse in the discussion. These are protectionist provisions, which we think are perfectly satisfactory to the workers. It would be negligent if we did not remember an unacceptable phenomenon in recent days. The media, TV channels in particular, attempt to use workers as a human shield to blackmail the government, so that they do not go ahead with the regulation under this bill. At the same time, there are people and sides of the political system who say that our bill serves exactly those who place workers as a shield for blackmailing the government. Let them decide what's going on from both. Is the government blackmailed by these specific interests, or are our friends we serve with the bill? We have recently been witnessing workers' redundancies, and this takes the form of a daily phenomenon. Yes, these media are making redundancies, those that have been working for twenty-five years without legal administrative permits and which, as the CSU has repeatedly considered, are illegal. This blackmail, however, will not go through and go to plenary today in a historic - I stress - day for the television scenery, for pluralism, for democracy. Plenary is discussing this draft law, which, in general terms, aims to bring legality to the television field. Secondly, to ensure pluralism. Thirdly, to help healthy competition finally operate with healthy businesses and, above all, the issue of transparency and elements such as I have explained to you. Fourthly, to simplify the licensing procedure according to European events and data, to ensure and protect employment. Let some argue that this bill is a product of vengeance allegedly by SYRIZA and his Government towards private media due to their hostile attitude to the latest elections. What's the matter with the two? Is it a product of revenge or is it a product, as Mr Venizelos said before, that we are creating new fireplaces on the old fireplaces? Our sole objective of the bill is the order and the imposition of democratic rules in the television scenery, which is a democratic requirement. We are introducing this bill for reasons of transparency, as I have told you, and it will be the necessary 'oxy' for democracy, for healthy competition, for equality, for pluralism and for objective information. I would like to tell you at this point that yesterday in the committee we were discussing, the bodies were invited. I, and all of us, have watched a shocking position of the technical director of ERT, Mr Michalitzsi, who said terrible and terrible things about the competition of one candidate, DIGEA, and other issues. I'll tell you one thing. In the question formulated by the Qualifying Opposition if the ERT and its subsidiary - which is not a subsidiary in the legal sense, but is simply linked to the ERT - are able to become a network provider, it responded to the following: ‘Tell that the ERT pays to DIGEA 2,200 000 annually plus VAT.’ In other words, in a period of four years it will have paid around six to seven million, when the cost of installing all technical specifications and technical equipment, to become a provider of a digital signal, is only five to six million." You can understand, therefore, whether the costs currently paid by ERT are such that it can actually be converted into a network provider. Mr Michalitsis also told us another terrible thing, in the end how this competition got used to having only one candidate, the 'DIGEA'. Not to say, I'll testify to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned passage of the speech by Mr Michalitsis, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. It has been known since the 1970s and has been called by Enrico Berlinguer, the leader of the Left, then that anyone who owns the media will own the power. Harold Laswell repeated this a few years later, which said that anyone who controls the information is sure to control public order. But if you want to go to political level too, Alec Ginsberg, the great American poet, said that whoever controls the media, will also control culture. In other words, anyone who controls the media will control all levels of political, social, economic and cultural life. In fact, Campbell considers that the right to television product of a level of constitutionality is human rights and human rights often have to stand even above positive law. Historical positions, you will tell me, but that was prophetic, despite the fact that we as the Left do not believe in prophecy, because in our political philosophy and thought nothing is a product of divination and prophecy but simply prediction based on specific political and social data analysed scientifically and dialectically. And as a result of this suggestion, I'm putting a phrase of Dedero, who said that people stop thinking when they stop reading. And since the message emanating from the broadcasting media is a cultural product and a product of knowledge, it is also a study product, so that is a product that if we draw it properly and safely, we will learn to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. Mr Eleftherios Aeggeakis has the floor, rapporteur from the New Democracy, for 15 minutes. Let me remind you that immediately after we enter the debate on the objection of unconstitutionalism raised by Mr Venizelos. I would ask the parties to have defined who will represent them in the debate, one speaker, whether they will be the Parliamentary representatives or others, and to have this paper, in the hope that, by way of derogation and after appealing to the workers of the House for the Minutes, we may have them in just a few minutes and ready. Because it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I want to say that, so that it doesn't seem to be a rope. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u66	Let me just say that on the New Democracy side, Mr Javarra will support the issue of unconstitutionalism. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Government on media licences. The institutionalisation of the television scene is as late as ever and, of course, it must also be done. But that's right. Here we have a bill that is out of place and time, and it's not the only one, unfortunately. We have an entire government that is out of place and time, ministers who have no contact with reality, MPs who understand that they represent only SYRIZA voters, having swallowed the caramel of anger, roaming around the halls of Parliament and the committees, provoking tensions and not actually contributing to political arguments in the legislative work, which is why we are here. We wonder whether all this is a question of impotence to the government or an attempt to defer the difficult, admittedly, decisions on the future. Whatever the government's problem, however, the Prime Minister himself must give the solution. Otherwise the cost of procrastination will be even more painful than any difficult decisions being called on or we will be called upon to support or in principle as a government, you as a governmental parliamentary group and all of us as representatives in this Chamber. But this pussy-speaking logic that you are following primarily affects, Minister, the society itself. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is an election to say that you will find the equivalent of VAT to private education - you have said it and, not least, it was not a Memorandum of Understanding but an ideological commitment of yours and you know it - and yesterday the Minister of Education will consider it five-pointed - listen to me! - the burden of households. You made the promise, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that the "red" loans would be arranged and the world believed there would be seismicity. At the same time, control is now coming, with what Mr Tsipras, Mr Kammenos, Mr Stathakis, has agreed, to the creditors who hope they will behave in an institutional and transparent manner. It is a spoon, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, a shame and a blow to the representativeness of our democracy, to say MP: 'This measure is not about voters of SYRIZA, so we have no political cost'. I am referring in particular to Mr Sevastakis, who has to give a public apologies. It is also incomprehensible to confront, who you of SYRIZA, if possible, the MATs with people with disabilities who protested yesterday about their fair demands outside Parliament. It is neither necessary nor unavoidable, however, that Mr Tsipras brings with it a national pension of EUR 390 for all citizens, and that he is linked to the insured person's contributions and that you blame my previous government for neoliberal policies. I refer, of course, to what Mr Katrugalos has said lately. Gentlemen of the government, you know very well that this is not socialism. This is the left-wing government, which defends pension cuts! Clear words, counted words. Understand it and tell the citizens, so they know what they'll vote next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u67	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u68	I don't want a vacation, no smart ones. This is an extremely serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u69	I'll protect you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u70	Next time you tell your constituents at least whether they agree or whether you agree here with Mr Michelovanakis' statements. I don't have to repeat them. We all know them. It was neither necessary nor inevitable to tax on the farmers you brought in the next few days. Yesterday, there was a meeting of farmers in Crete. After grief and wonder, I saw our farmers trust you in Crete in the previous elections. However, yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of Crete, neither a SYRIZA Member nor a SYRIZA and ANEL official did pass outside the chamber. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, where are the SYRIZA boys hidden, really? Where are the left-wing comrades? Where did those active activists from the previous five years go? It is obviously time for all of you to drink, unfortunately, of the government and the parliamentary group, which supports the government, who have careers in easy and demagogic, on the antimony, the bitter memorial glass. Because all those who have been in your position in recent years have not applied the measures because they have been traitors, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANELs, or because they wanted to wipe out the Greek middle class and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, since all of this is the case, the hermadic Government of Mr Tsipras - Kammenos blames us for changing the subject and misleading public opinion. Unfortunately for you today you see that there are no easy promises without cost. There are only conscientious, hollow threats and mainly vague ones. And so you called a state-of-the-art change "the new" that you boast to me, without any ideological and political content, only on the basis of the management and administration of power. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the whole bill on the authorisation of the media. All the previous period, Mr Tsipras and Mr Papapas and other government officials and other ANEL and SYRIZA Members have voiced hollow threats. You were saying. 'They will pay the loans they owe the channels'. 'All the Canadians due to the public will pay'. You have said more, 'I will', 'I will'. Well, let's get this straight. Today's bill has nothing to do with charging debts and paying taxes either from the media or from any other media firm. It is necessary to clarify this because the government has always allowed it to be understood in the past few days that this draft law will impose the burden on television stations. Clearly in the New Democracy, we are in favour of any such effort by the government, that is to say, government-sponsored recovery. But yesterday in the face of all the bodies and representatives of the National Television Channels Union and after you sent to all major media, small and large, the IU - and you did well - you said, Mr Papa, that you are absent from the Chamber, 'you know, they do not have any debts at all. You are wrong to say such things." Aren't the intertwined contractors and canalarchs owe you a debt? The people you blame don't owe them? Or do they owe us and you hide it from us? If they owe us, why didn't we marry them yesterday in committee to tell us when they're gonna pay their debts, but you escaped with a kind, ironic classic smile, Mr. Spirtzi? The government once again misleads public opinion. But he says to the world and others he's brought to the bill. And today it misleads the citizens. You are not trustworthy interlocutors either with society or with investors or with partners or anyone. And that's in your DNA. I want to be clear to you, to the citizens watching us. And I am sure he is following the debate with great interest. The institutional identification of the television scene has been delayed, and it has to be done. Let me remind you that it has started unsuccessfully - and their reasons for remembering - the Government of Karamanlis. There were brave steps in the Samara government and I would add that the objective of the two previous governments of the New Democracy was sincere. But is your aim to break the oligopoly in the media, correct distortions, create a framework that will allow media transactions with the state? If it were all this, then of course we would support you. And, of course, we have not been able to say that even at this point in time - although the debate on the committees has been completed - any possible improvement in the legislative process, as usual, if you wish to show consensus as you were saying, Mr Spirtzi and Mr Pappas. And we look forward to any improvements that you have in your mind, which you have received from the discussions between us, after hearing the bodies and after the dozens of memos that have arrived at all of us. None of this until this time. Unfortunately, however, the government's bill is out of place and time and adapted to the needs of the last century, friends and friends, when the technological data were very different from today's ones. Restrictions on the number of licences and other standards also conceal clear - very clear - attempt to manipulate television information for the benefit of friends. Mr. Ministers, can you honestly tell us what the real and honest aim of the bill is? Have you calculated - for my part - the National Broadcasting Council? Were you aware of the serious reservations and objections raised by the Commission? Have you calculated the reservations of the European Competition Committee? Have you taken note of the observations made by the EBRD and the EBRD which, until last night, arrived at all of us? We are still waiting, Mr Spiritzis and Mr Pappas, for you to be absent from the Chamber - the notes and remarks which reach about ten from the Commission. We hope that you will soon find our time and emails and promote as you have committed - yet you have not done - because we need to take into account all those who will be called upon to vote for an inappropriate draft law. Can the Ministry determine the skills and jobs - please - a private enterprise? We're Soviet? I wonder. What kind of intervention is he in the private economy, really? Can you tell us, Minister, on rational grounds, why the number of licences in the broadcasting scene should be defined by the respective government? For the sake of frequency security? This used to be the case that we had frequencies limited, and the frequencies were indeed a rare resource. But now, with digital technology, there is no security issue. It can transmit an unlimited number. To prevent anyone wishing to do so, within a framework of rules of operation, of course, a channel and to avoid duplication? Since when did the creation of an oligopoly, a cartel in common - you know it, do not get confused - is a means of transparency for the left government? Where is this, ladies and gentlemen? What theory is this written in? Where have you seen it, tell us. Which country? And if we accept that logic, why not apply to other electronic means, why not only to television media and, above all, to national media? Why this precursor, the rush, when you have promised anyone who speaks Greek and has a budget extremely great that you will also give them a license? The market ow. You're staying to deny it. Why don't you, ladies and gentlemen, separate Mr. SYRIZA - ANEL, clearly the regional stations from the national channels in the draft law? The draft law does not take into account - in fact, it ignores provocatively - the differences, the major differences between national and regional television stations. If you are not ready for this, Mr Spirtzi, as it seems quite clear, and you have said so at the meetings you have had with the three - four different representatives of local television stations, regional channels, to withdraw the articles concerning regional media, regional TV channels and bring them in when you are more ready. No blackmail, or I blink my eye, leaving implied for the future. You're not ready, you admitted. Do a better piece of legislation. Prepare appropriately. Yesterday we heard - and those of us and those of us who were and those of us who were in the committees that we met from 9 o'clock in the morning to 11 o'clock almost - that of more than a hundred regional television stations, entertainment stations, it is a question of whether they will succeed - if the conditions laid down in the draft law apply and which so far have not changed much - to meet these conditions more than six - seven stations. In fact, a bell was ringed for particularly difficult areas, such as Epirus, Macedonia and the islands of the eastern Aegean. I am going to another topic now, Mr Minister, and my fellow Members. Can the government weaken our country's foreign policy, in other words transfer diplomatic work to people who have no such specialty? What kind of pandemic is the Minister of State, by extension, of the capital organization of communication diplomacy? This is the most unscrupulous and even gross invasion of the foreign policy field that takes into account neither international experience nor of course the fact that the Ministries of State are coming and going, while the Foreign Ministry, the following and all those specialised in this subject - there is a special management - a country, is the most stable pillar that ensures institutional memory, continuity and timely knowledge of foreign policy management and communication. What kind of mutation have you suffered, Mr. SYRIZA Ministers and Members of SYRIZA and ANEL? Have you reached the point of questioning the independence of the independent authorities? The establishment of a disciplinary board by members chosen by the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and the Minister of Justice is also a clear interference in the functioning and independence of the E.T.T. and the PSE, of course, but mainly the E.T.T. Cultivate or at least try to create all the previous period, a climate of fear and dependence of the members of the independent authorities on your part. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. I ask you, Minister: why is it not that the provisions on the disciplinary responsibility of members of the independent authorities are not applied proportionately, but that a disciplinary board is established with members chosen by the above ministers? Minister, the independent authorities are accountable to the House and are not controlled by anyone or the government. You must respect the Rules of Procedure, of course, the Constitution, the laws of the state that all of us serve, but also to stop the degradation of both the PSE and the E.T.T. And the rest of the independent authorities. If they want to improve, if they want aid, if they want to have a debate, they want to do so, but not the way in which you started - and I close it here - yesterday and yesterday in the discussions of the committees. In conclusion, Mr President, as a new Republic, we want and demand that a transparent, reliable, operational, objective and fair system of assessment of combined molecules criteria, including experience and old age, be established, both for national and regional channels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want your tolerance, Mr President. We call for transparency everywhere and for rules known in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Ausgeus, I've already given it to you. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u72	All the rules of the game should be defined in a simple and transparent manner, but adapted to the current technology, so as to allow the development of the market within a structured institutional framework under healthy competition rules. Of course, we agree that there must be restrictions on media concentration and market power in accordance with the rules of the European Union and on the influence on information. We are discussing and will vote - if it is voted - an inappropriate law, perforated from everywhere, which creates a minister - canalarch. Our proposal is to have strict, strict, but known to everyone in advance...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Ausgeus, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u74	... content for grant, for general authorisation. Taking into account the issues I have raised above, there is legislation in this regard. If we need to improve, yes, we need to see it directly, seriously, measured and at the right time, so that there is a serious, well-known and valid piece of legislation. I will close by just one mentioning the need to pay attention to municipal information. The same cannot be true of all private means of information. It is an obligation for ERT, which some forget to be independent, public television. It is also an obligation for ERT to transmit the evening central news report in the Greek sign language.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Ignace, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u76	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u77	It's the third time I've heard of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u78	I conclude by saying that we expect, Mr Ministers, the possible economic study, where you have certainly calculated, if you have calculated, whatever possible costs, costs, consequences - it is, ERT - business factor you are going to do - on the creation of a, parallel with DIGEA, platform, through a subsidiary of ERT. We said we weren't opposed to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Ausgekis, do not embarrass me. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u80	We hope that in the course of the process we will have firstly any legislative improvements that you have made in the context of consensus and all the other elements that you promise from the day before yesterday that you will give. Maybe you're sending them to us by email, but I guess your emails aren't working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and two educational sessions from the 4th Tripolis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliament approves a request for a absence from abroad, submitted to President Nikolaos Voutsi, by Mrs Nikos Kerameos from 5 to 8 November. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos informs the Bureau that Mr Vassilis Kokkalis is designated as the special speaker. Finally, the Ministers for Economy, Development and Tourism, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, National Defence, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Deputy Ministers of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, and the Deputy Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity have tabled a draft law: "Definition of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the cooperation and activities of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the Hellenic Republic". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Unfortunately, we cannot have the Minutes that have promised you in time, but we must now enter the debate of the objection of constitutionality. Of course, the House will take a decision. We shall therefore apply Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The speaker was the President, Mr. Venizelos. I have been informed that SYRIZA will be the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Famelos. All the lions will have the floor for five minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is true that Article 14 of the Constitution defines and defends freedom of the press, bans censorship and imposes that our constitutional framework calls for transparency, pluralism in information, specifying that information is an important asset, a component of the democratic state. At the same time, of course, in paragraph 9 of Article 14 of the Constitution, there are already restrictive provisions concerning, in particular, the prohibition of concentration of control of the media, the ownership and identity of the owner and the main shareholder, which, moreover, was included in the non-applicable law of 2005. Apart from the protectionist provisions of Article 14, Article 15, the editorial legislator lifts the protection in these matters and calls for direct State control of broadcasting activities and for control and administrative sanctions to be placed on the state and also for the competence of the National Broadcasting Council. The operation of broadcasters is therefore a matter of public interest because it is practically related to objective information. Because very simply, ladies and gentlemen, the channels have the potential for manipulating and shaping public opinion, which has been left uncontrolled in the past twenty-five years through a very complex and linkage of politics to business leadership, because at first, it has simply become the favour of political leadership towards the canals and then these channels have made the gift to political leadership, to continue to be a protagonist in the 20.00 bulletin and, if you like, to be subject to public opinion in its own logic and administrative guidance. One-sidedness, but also the one-sale of the media, impairs the functioning of the democratic culture, as well as social and democratic culture, and it is a matter, ladies and gentlemen, if we have the right to underestimate and mislead our country's culture and our democratic tradition. The Council of State has long since estimated that the Constitution is being violated with the current situation of television media and calls on the Greek state to take measures, measures not taken by the previous governments, in which the applicant for the unconstitutional status has also participated. We, of course, ladies and gentlemen, have listened very carefully to issues relating to opacity, complexity, conditions for the creation of jacks, fireplaces linked to governments without control, because, indeed, there has been considerable experience in the past twenty-five years in our country on such incidents and with great interest, we have reached conclusions and have decided that this regime must change. And this regime is changing the law that has been submitted today. We have also listened with great attention to documentation and objections about unconstitutionality. Allow me to say on the articles and specific issues that have been raised. Are there any exceptions to domestic or foreign companies regarding the denomination of shares? No, ladies and gentlemen, there are no. Article 4 includes provisions for both the companies in our country and for the companies in other countries, which provide for the obligation to list names of shares, but there is also a provision which provides that for those countries which do not require the list of names of shares, there is a formal notice from the company with a considered list of shares in the competent licensing body, i.e. the Broadcasting Council, so that it is not possible to hide the identity of the main shareholder and the shareholders more than 1% in any institutional framework. Second matter. Is there a restriction on the number of licences? So, is there any chance that this bill will limit information, pluralism and objectivity? Oh, no. At no point does the bill say there is a limited number of permits. On the contrary, it says that the number of licences placed in the tendering procedure, in the competitive, objective, transparent process that has been missing for so many years from our country, is determined. Returns the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, returns democracy with this law. Because there has so far been no safeguard from Parliament and from the governments responsible for the country for twenty-five years. It is quite simply because no article states that the number of licences is finite, and it cannot be the government or the National Broadcasting Council, or the House can return and supplement the number according to social needs, with the collectives, with the non-profit unions and all other institutional entities that the applicant has rightly claimed to have access to this function. Is the National Broadcasting Council limited? Not at all. There is no ratification, no competence, no regulatory function within this law, which is removed from the National Broadcasting Council. On the contrary, it gives its opinions on both the number of licences and the starting price threshold. In fact, it has powers of public intervention and the decisions of the Government. Finally, I wanted to say that we have unfortunately also heard a complaint about the fixing of a price per licence. Let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is probably a mistake reading the bill that we have in the hands of one. There is no price determination per licence. There is a price set by licence category, and I cannot understand what else someone who respects democracy and parity would expect, rather than establishing a price for national territory as well as for regional or thematic channels, another price. That is how equality is determined, which requires democracy and transparency, and that is what we are doing. As far as the existing companies that have been left for twenty-five years to violate the Constitution, democracy and mislead the future and the ethos of the Greek state are concerned, what this bill can do as a transitional provision is to enable them to participate in the tender, to compete on equal terms, because that is what equality requires. No one will claim with the SYRIZA Government, with the Left-Government special criteria, special management, as bipartisanism has reserved for the channels through a special relationship of interdependence and dependence. All equals law, all citizens, all politicians, all entrepreneurs. Transparency in politics and democracy is all it can save and create a new future for our country. So there is no question of unconstitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u83	On behalf of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Javarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Whether there is or is not a question of constitutionality in relation to the objections which have been raised, neither will the speaker's political ideology nor his ability to speak on the subject of various issues which are independent of the subject of dialogue, which is now constitutional specific. And a specific constitutionality means that we can link the case that we consider to be the regulation of the bill, with what provides as general or specific provisions of the current Constitution. So you will allow me, Mr President, to be a little analytic, to be seen by all my fellow Members, who, unfortunately, do not have any familiarity with these issues, and that is why they are also diverted into other issues that may be nice, but unfortunately they are not really. It is a fact that our Constitution defines areas of economic activity and despite all its liberalism, the state is obliged to intervene, i.e. it is not entitled to abstain. And that is precisely the case with ensuring greater goods that are of interest to the public interest and corresponding to social needs of vital importance. All the words I use are very important. And I'm saying that why? Because with regard to the defence and service of the public interest, it corresponds to a particular vital need, and this link can only be made with the establishment and operation of organisational structures, which are called public services. In the process of working out the Council of State, therefore, it gives us as the definition of the public service that organisational form and that function, which is intended to provide the people in charge, with the citizens of goods which are vital to ensure normal social coexistence, in which it must be served. Firstly, respect for human dignity for the citizen and secondly, the free development of his personality and activity. So it is precisely this form that we have in the provision of Article 15(2), which does not aim to do all that the previous colleague has said, but above all is aimed at direct control of the State on television and radio-broadcasting, to have this kind of provision, of essential importance, of vital importance, of information, cultural development, in the final analysis of the democratic culture. That's why the words he's using again aren't random. It therefore says that Article 15(2) states that radio and television are directly controlled by the State. This control, that is, the direct and indirect - since there is no discrimination - must necessarily be regarded as a whole as being handled and served by an independent administrative authority. In order to inform Mr Spirtz, it is an independent administrative authority which is greater than the administration and the government and is, of course, subject only to the control of the House, which is an expression of popular sovereignty. This very public service is in any case organising the state with the laws it adopts. In this case, therefore, there are no criteria that can make it possible to control it if, in this case, the specific public service bill in the form of television is organised, the principle of legality is served. In other words, apart from the price, in addition to the economic criteria, there are no criteria to make it possible to control legality, which has to do with the purposes that a television company must serve whether it is public or private. And these are the purposes. The provision and transmission of information, information, news, works of art and speech, as well as the quality of the programmes. That is why there are no criteria. And in that sense, the provision of Article 15(2) is being violated. Also - second reason - when the third paragraph of the Constitution stipulates that the control, which is served in the way I mentioned, relates firstly to the regime of prior authorisation - I underline the word scheme - is obviously included in the regime and is part of this control carried out by the PSE and the number of licences and the starting price. In this sense, therefore, I consider it unconstitutional this authorisation made to this Minister or to the two Ministers to determine both the number of licences and the price of start-up. And the third - and more seriously I think - is that, in this case, there is also a violation of Article 43(2) of the Constitution. Because - and this is what the Scientific Committee's report says - it is precisely this authorisation that does not concern either a more specific issue or a technical issue or a detailed issue. Therefore, it cannot withstand the control of any constitutional approach. I think, therefore, that if we leave all these thick words on the table, on any other subjection - as I have heard before - of public opinion in monopolies, we should first of all vote on a law which has criteria that serve and ensures the principle of legality. And just this lack is totalitarian in this particular bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. On behalf of the Golden Dawn, the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Christos Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u86	We could well refer to the articles of the Constitution, as Mr Venizelos mentioned, and to Article 14 and also Article 15, which I recall - the previous ones have said - is an article which defines the principles which must govern broadcasting and television, namely the principles of objectivity and equality. And I ask - by not addressing you, because you know this but to the Greek people - does that remind you of the fact - objectivity and equality? Does it remind you of the exclusion - this illegal and unconstitutional exclusion, the anti-democratic - of the third political power, the Golden Dawn, from public and private television? In the essence of Mr Venizelos' position, in his report on unconstitutionalism, which I have followed very carefully, and of course I will be placed with due respect for the scientific adequacy of this political opponent, I have to say, therefore, that the Greek people and the Greek thought - I would say - in the challenges of life and from ancient times look at the substance of things. So also Greek nationalism, we Greek nationalists, are looking practically at things, and we are looking at the essence of things, of course, with the center of always man, nature and above all the national interest. So I have to say to Mr Venizelos that his proposal - I would say - may be timely and compatible with the constitutional requirements but - there is this great 'but' - lacks moral weight. Let me have that expression. I wonder, as the Greek people are asking myself: What did Mr Venizelos and the New Democracy party doing to support this view, this suggestion by Mr Venizelos in the past twenty-five years to treat this previous, illegal and unconstitutional regime, the regime responsible for the media involvement of all these 'barbarians', as the Greek people say, I would add, the 'piranhas' of public money? Has Mr Venizelos not supported Mr Venizelos' party, in which he is a Member now, over the years, the interconnected media, all these public works contractors? As to the substance of the matter, I have another question: do we have quality television in Greece? Do we have a TV that is in line with the constitutional checks after all? At least, as far as education is concerned, does the typology of a soul, that is, entertainment, the Greek people, or is an instrument of strong propaganda, as the Greek people experienced it last summer, at least with the coordinated propaganda by private and public television, on the referendum, where all the channels put dilemmas to the Greek people and urged him to vote 'yes'? The Greek people, of course, showed the spirit of resistance and voted 'no'. So it is also the responsibility of Mr Venizelos' party and of the New Democracy party - I would say even the Left which has prevailed in the Janadakis government - that and the same about the unacceptable situation of the media today. And because Mr Venizelos spoke about 'the term', I would say as far as the government is concerned that with this bill 'the term 'the term and the meaning of the word 'the term 'the term', that is, a lot of discussion about nothing'. While the government, with the majority of it, could heal wounds and wounds to the broadcasters for twenty-five years, instead it does one of the same, it continues the same illegal regime, that is, "what you had, what I've always had" said by the Greek people. As far as I am concerned - to close it - Mr Venizelos' proposal, first of all for reasons of moral order, we do not support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-three students and two teachers from the 4th High Tripoli but from the 2nd Department. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we must see, by combining what the public hears from the public debate through the media, what we are calling here today on us to vote on and what the public hears and on the basis of which it is mobilised. It is my view that the strongest argument that has been heard these days is that the canalarchs owe the banks and do not fulfil their obligations and that some are to blame - they show us - and 'we will table a draft law to break all this down'. That's what it sounds like. That sounds convincing to me to tell the citizen. And the good people who will make arrangements - to end this situation - are also the bad ones who will say 'no'. Mr Minister, as Mr Papatheodorou said in committee, Article 10, which requires that candidates be informed about their permits, is to be voted on. And I wonder why you are not just bringing in this and bringing in a number of provisions, which, while you are supporting democracy and transparency, are ultimately being reversed by one principle and the other. What are the goods to be safeguarded by the executive? The government has a major task towards various aspiring people who want to offend them, companies and so on, democracy, greater good, equality, free access to information, freedom of speech in the field of information. These were, in principle, developed by reference to them and to the relevant provisions of Mr Venizelos. With what means, Mr. Ministers? With the Independent Authority referred to in Article 15(2) of the Constitution, the National Broadcasting Council and the provisions providing for the protection of transparency in practice. These are their goods and means of defending them under the Constitution. What are you doing with these instruments? You're busting 'em. First of all, you are replaced by the National Broadcasting Council. The Minister shall decide the starting price for the auction. The Minister decides, listen - listen - and not fraudulent routes here - the number. The Minister shall decide upon subtle responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council. Why is the Minister - let us leave Mr Papa and the Minister of Finance present - for your minds, ladies and gentlemen of the democratic majority, and it is not the National Broadcasting Council? Why? And secondly, it was developed by Mr. Venizelos. Have you read well about the provisions of Articles 4 and 5 on denomination of shares? Have you talked to anyone who knows about this? Nor is the denomination of the applicant companies given. In other words, transparency is guaranteed here in a given way. Maybe it is, but it won't actually be. Nor is the transfer of the beneficiary in respect of its shares protected by transparency institutions. And since the denomination itself is incomplete - as the act has shown - an institution, a more practical solution is needed, which was tabled a few minutes ago by our rapporteur and our last day. How do you look at these, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? How do you also overlook the fact that, even if you accept as the guarantor of the respective Minister of State, Press or as any government will bring him, Mr. Pappas, you choose as the most appropriate instrument - anti-constitutional at all times - the ministerial decision and not the Presidential Decree? You've always been in favour of respect for the constitution here. Why are you looking at this today? The explanation is very given, it is well known, it is very specific to anyone who bothers reading the draft law what the National Broadcasting Council says is meeting the needs of 1995 and not the current needs, decades later. Why are you doing this? You do, because your purpose is not what you say. Your first purpose is to demagogue. The good and the bad, the honest and the unholy. As if honest ones are pretentious of your own, and honesty of your own good that everyone else is deprived of. First of all, to play politics. But you are facing the facts, Minister, and not us, no matter how much you play with us. The facts are being dealt with and these are not being defeated by such arguments at the end of the day. And secondly, you intend to keep the media in a hostage, because that's for the purpose of applying, it wants, ladies and gentlemen, one and a half to two years. Do your own political parties, have the other hostages and play the demagogic game of the democrat, liberal, politician, who puts order on something that has to get into order. I gave you the means of doing your job if you were honest. The second thing I want to say is why I have to close...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u90	Give me a minute. Mr Spirtz yesterday, as Mr Papatheodorou informed us about Article 18 - now you are not competent ministers, but to convey it to him - he said that if we find it excessive that one of the disciplinary offences, Mr Kaklamanis, the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts, it is also the non-implementation of the Minister's decisions, that will withdraw it. He didn't withdraw it. There is a set of directives from Union law, in which we have adapted to the 2012 legislation and which you are changing today, which wants this principle not a transporter of the Minister's choices. An independent authority is protected - it is not protected by the Constitution, Mr President, it is not the authority that will implement the Minister's political choices. The independent authority must also decide in an independent manner. This kind of misconduct is insulting its independence and you must withdraw it. This was supported by the Minister yesterday, as Mr Papatheodorou informed us. We expect you to let us know today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u91	Let us hope until night that we will hear about this, Mr Loverdos, before the vote on the bill at first reading or not. I want to appeal to all of us, starting with the government, and then to all of us. Because the independent authorities - I would remind you - want to set up a very increased majority, let us leave them out of our controversy, because I fear that in the end we will not form one. If we go to the Conference of Presidents with tension, I fear that we will not create anything and that will not be a good picture of the House. On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Political issues and individual political disagreements, in our view, and not strategies, cannot be dressed every time with constitutionality. What happens and we are living here is that, depending on who is in the government and who is in the opposition raises a question of constitutionality. And if any persistent man with great patience already sits down to see her minutes every time of up-to-date constitutionality, he will see the same parties, the same people, saying exactly the opposite. When it is in the government to say that it is, for example, constitutional and when it is in opposition unconstitutional. Am I wrong? This is exactly how unconstitutionalism is finally interpreted every time we are called upon to decide whether it is constitutional or unconstitutional. I have said many times and we have pointed out that the Constitution is making it a tire and that is where you decide. One hundred and fifty, when they decide it's constitutional, it is. When they decide it's not, it's not. We therefore do not enter the procedure in this case. Why? Because it's a fake dilemma. Why, the previous or the previous ones, were they constitutional? If we give a narrow interpretation, not of course. Today is a dramatic change in the landscape? I'll tell you in my speech. Do they change the landscape radically? They're bringing big twists? But those who had and some new men will have the media again. The rules are about the same. There are partial differences. We therefore do not enter this debate and do not participate in such a vote, because we consider it to be a phony if it is a constitutional or unconstitutional. We shall have a real debate on the issue of the bill, and that is where we shall vote against, of course, what we are to vote against.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr Pafile, for saving time. On behalf of the River Mr. Spyridon Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Several of the important provisions of the bill are particularly problematic and falsified. I am sorry to say this, but it is the result of a new state-of-the-art mentality, a whole concept, which has seen the government especially lately. In our view, however, there is no obvious unconstitutionality. As far as the National Broadcasting Council is concerned, its main problem is that it does not exist. It's not legal. And the provision put forward by Mr Katrugalos - I fear that he himself sees it - does not legalise it. Minister, on the occasion of the debate on the bill for the restoration of ERT, I had made you a proposal at that time, because it is the basis, the beginning, if we want to redeem this whole problem of the broadcasting landscape, which is one of the great saints that drags the whole political system back and we have an obligation to do so against the citizens, so that all of us can regain credibility. If there is indeed a will from the government to resolve this first, because it is prerequisite to legalise the composition of the National Broadcasting Council, the conditions are met, as they were in the previous House. And if there is really your will to set up a Broadcasting Council, which is distinguished by the prestige, adequacy, credibility, if we want to have a non-manual National Broadcasting Council, I think the preconditions are met, the present composition will achieve the vast majority of 4/5 required by the Conference of Presidents. So do it. Take this initiative immediately and so you will show that you do not want a manipulated composition of the National Broadcasting Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber of the "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House organises and operates, thirty-seven students from Denmark. The House welcomes them. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Venizelos has raised an objection and because the front of the objection is about the revision, it is important to mention other than technical matters and some specific policy. The world that sees us must finally know the truth. Mr. Loverdos rightly said that the world is convinced that this government is trying to hit corruption. Let's see them historically over five minutes. The 1975 Constitution did not provide for anything specific to the complex, because then state television existed. With the gigantic phenomenon in 2001, then the political system sought refuge and political alibi in the Revision of the Constitution. He believed that with the Revision of the Constitution and the specific provision mentioned by Mr Venizelos, he could solve the problem of interactivity and corruption. It was ultimately a pretext and the choice of the review proved to be at least unfortunate, inappropriate and ineffective. What for? 'Cause I don't. In this context, I should like to draw attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work is a very important one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u97	I wasn't rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u98	If not rapporteur, Mr Venizelos, at least you were the shaper. You'll have a chance to answer that. The state itself was forced after two laws, n. 3310 and R.P. 3414, to be brought into line with European legislation. It was then that Mr. Loverdus, who swings the finger on the MPs of the government majority saying "you know what you are voting for", then, on Karamanlis, who became the first serious attempt to strike the conflict, said, "you are not free to bring back the law of the Middle Ages, the law of blood into the 21st century in our world." It was then! Therefore, the fact that the objection of non-constitutionality had been raised had to apologise for at least the unfortunate revision. Three times, Mr. Venizelo, o v. Case 3021/2002 was found to be unconstitutional. Why does the world see us believe that this objection you are now raising is well founded? What for? Instead of apologizing as a party, which has not just done anything but the problem of interlocutory has increased even further, you are trying through formal procedures - instead of having the courage to say 'yes, we are voting' - you are trying with justifications that the Minister supposedly has superpowers to consider the bill as unconstitutional, while you do not say that the auction is considered the most democratic ones. Do you support the auction, yes or no? Your own statutes were considered unconstitutional, yours, yours. I regret to note that the New Democracy, with the acceptance of the objection of anti-constitutionality, is essentially against their own legislation, the law of Karamanlis, on n. 3410/2005. I think, Mr President - and I conclude with this - that the objection is not just unfounded but also pretextful. The House will decide to reject it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Venizelos wants to speak on a personal note. Mr President, let us finish with Mr Carras and you will close in response to them. On behalf of the Centroon Union, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday and yesterday at the joint meeting of the committees, the Centres' Union was placed as follows on the bill: For the provisions on broadcasting, it was reserved to be placed in plenary session. On the contrary, with regard to the other provisions of the bill, we have clearly stated that we will vote against them and I am referring to the provisions concerning 'ERT-net', diplomatic communication. Let's not mention them now, they're well-known. I must say that we have tried to improve some provisions of the bill in the committee debate, because they have already had ballots of incompleteness and unconstitutionality. So today Mr Venizelos' objection to the law raises an issue of anti-constitutionality. We take the view that this objection is premature. What for? Good or bad has shaken the country. We must once - we are a new party in this House - support it from the outset - well or wrong to enter a class, even if we should start a step towards that class. Nor do we want to support the government at this point. We are simply seeking and we support the setting-up of a start. So, what's the start? The adoption of a law which may be incomplete, perhaps defective, but which will be an improvement, a step in relation to the previous laws, which have created all these problems mentioned by my previous colleagues. So I come to comment on the objection of unconstitutionality. Indeed, in Article 4 - if I am not mistaken - and in Article 5, there is more to do with the denomination of shares. There's a gap there. There is a gap in denomination, because it says that if no denomination is provided under the law of the country in which the company is registered, the competent foreign authority will confirm it and the company will make a responsible statement about its shareholders who they are. That is not enough, of course, but there is not much else, which is contained in the legislation. It says the legislation 'at the last general meeting'. We will therefore have an issue there, if we have transfers of shares, changes of shareholders, changes of compositions of companies. I therefore think that the law should be supplemented at this point, in order to remove any unconstitutional unconstitutional reservations at first stage, and it should be laid down that at the annual general meeting the company should submit its blog to a natural person - 1% mentioned by the law - and this should come to be controlled by the National Broadcasting Council, in the case in which there are reservations or some suspicions. We therefore believe that if this provision is supplemented at least at first stage, it does not involve unconstitutionality because it is part of the law as a whole. A second issue which concerns me is the frequency map. It's a technical, detailed issue, so we go to a ministerial decision or is it of general interest, so we have to go to a presidential decree? I do not think the House can resolve this matter today. I do not think we can decide on this constitutional provision whether or not it is true. We therefore have to move on. Another issue is the PSE and the Regulatory Authority for Posts and Telecommunications. Indeed, there is a question. These committees do not actually exist today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. So we have to find a way of working, because the bill comes, which refers to these principles, and I have to say that I asked the committee to improve these provisions. The Council's opinion will not be simple, because then the Minister will be the ruler of everything. I have at least requested that the opinion be reasoned. This will be judged on the way. Therefore, the law is not unconstitutional, because there is no legal composition of the PSE, but the application of the law will soon have problems if the PSE and the National Post and Telecommunications Committee are not legally formed. That's where it's going to be a matter. The law will be set aside. It is the government's duty, therefore, to investigate and introduce it into Parliament to take a decision, to set up these committees in a legitimate way. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Finally, I will not tire of this House anymore, Mr President - I would like to refer to the price by auction as mentioned by Mr Venizelos. I think that does not involve unconstitutionalism. It is a real incident that is proportional to the gravity of the licence, depending on the scope it will have. The last thing I would like to say is that there is one issue - but it is not a question of unconstitutional - transitional provisions. Should this law have transitional provisions to cover existing companies or should it not? He doesn't. It gives them, of course, an indirect lead in the auction on the issue of building infrastructure, the general infrastructure programme, equipment and staff. That's where they take the lead. It's undeniable. The transitional provision, however, which does not exist, raises no question of the unconstitutionality of the law. The Centro Association will not support the unconstitutionality raised by the objection, because it wants the debate to go ahead, and in the end will not find a solution to this issue. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Kaklamanis informed me that Mr Venizelos had asked for the floor, which will be the last of the speakers. The parties have already been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u102	The government won't answer? If he wants to, of course. It's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u103	If he wants, we'll be happy to hear it. Minister, would you like to precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u104	I thought the President wanted to be placed first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u105	Minister, they'd like to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional argument was raised by the obvious question of political arguments. How can old-fashioned communism defend either the generalised regime of lawlessness that exists today with the absence of virtually legal permits or the real immunity regime that all Greek citizens know about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u107	Listen to "stage"!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u108	Looks like it's bothering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u109	Whoa, whoa, whoa! You're not embarrassed at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u110	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u111	First of all, let us say that we are dealing with this, that we should clean up this operation of the August, not only with the well-known political issues, the conflict with the conflict - and this conflict we want - but also with a legally problematic landscape because of the wording of Article 14(9) of the implementing legislation, as has been interpreted - the objector is well aware - as has been dealt with by the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. But because it is our intention to enter this landscape and, above all, to respect the Constitution and the democratic principle, that is why we brought the bill, with the only chance of being blamed for being delayed. On these objections, I think that it is indicative of the dubiousness of the objection that it was referred to in Article 4 as regards the denomination of the shares, while it relates to Article 5.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u112	But you didn't hear me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u113	No, I read from the Minutes, and I listened well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u114	You didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u115	Here we have taken care not only of domestic companies but also of foreign companies. I don't want to use heavy expressions. Well, no one's looking at their own hump, as Aesop said...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u116	That's true of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u117	...as you know that, for example, today, large channel equity participates outside companies. On the contrary, we are trying to deal with this issue, covering foreigners too, in the way that has already been mentioned by SYRIZA's rival. As far as Mr Carras' position is concerned, I should also like to say that in the event of a transfer of foreign companies' shares, which will have submitted their stock exchange, there is provision not only for notification by existing legislation but also for prior authorisation of the transfer. The disputes referred to in Article 2 substantially affect the possibility of auctioning licences. The view heard that only the rare frequencies require the need for auctioning and that goes back to the past and has already been overcome, or the even more advanced view of the market judging them is extreme non-liberal views, which do not take into account that public frequency is a public resource. Why should this be given to loved ones of interlocutor? Why not pay for the public resource they manage? Why these millions, which we have given them for so many years, can we continue to give them away? And the argument that, in view of 43.2, verse (b) of the Constitution, a presidential decree is required, is essentially what it conceals? That the only thing to be done is two figures: the number of licences and the starting price. Tell me a presidential decree you know, which refers only to numbers. None. Because determining a number is also a specific and technical and detailed issue, what the Constitution allows them to be regulated by ministerial decisions. Therefore, this is where the objection is because of its inherent contradiction with Article 106. If we were to give the permits, we would actually give some of the national wealth. Evidently it is also unfounded in respect of 43.2, verse b. Finally, the competence of the National Broadcasting Council, as enshrined in Article 15 of the Constitution, is not affected at all. As you know, other legal classes in Italy, Spain, Finland provide that the authorisation is to be made directly by the relevant Minister. Here, because we do have a constitutional competence for the Broadcasting Council, the procedure we have provided for is in line with the Constitution. From that point on, there is nothing to give an ex post audit to the relevant Minister. The Television Council is therefore completely respected. In the state the only competence recognised is to initiate the relevant procedure. We cannot be blamed for what those who have for decades left the field unregulated, so inconsistent. Therefore, we come to cover sins of old communism for decades. We come to do so in a way that is in line with, not only with the constitutional principles mentioned, but above all with the democratic principle, because when the field of information is not regulated, the freedom to state the political will of the people is distorted. We saw in the referendum how the opposite view was addressed, what we put forward and welcomed 62% of the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u118	Censorship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u119	That's not censorship. To have rules and democratic order is the condition of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u120	Censorship! You won't judge what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u121	From now on, immunity ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u122	You have no right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u123	Complication is fine and worrying, and that's why you're yelling, you're defending it. That's exactly why...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u124	It won't pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u125	Mrs. Vulture, you're making it easier for the conversation. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u126	Mrs. Vulture, you're being exposed. Your annoyance is obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u127	... our promises will be kept.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Venizelo, you asked for the floor. You have the floor for only three minutes, warm request.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, denomination leads to the control of economic instruments and the property regime. We live in 2015. It is not enough for the provisions of commercial law. There are now experienced international audit firms that can, regardless of the legal form of the company, tell you who is in control, what business interests are and what financial instruments are. I call on the Government to amend Articles 4 and 5, so that every candidate can request and draw up an international auditing company that reflects this situation, so that they know the National Broadcasting Council, the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and the Greek people. Just stuff. Because, while for the infamous main shareholder and the collection of stations, the bill refers to the legislation in force, it changes the existing legislation on nominalization and opens huge windows, so that through foreign companies and outsiders you control a television station company, hiding who you are, if you represent foreign and fair, if you launder money, if you serve interests that conflict with great choices of national policy and if you play with those interests. That's a concrete answer. And what the Representative of the Independent Greeks said, that the 2002 Act was considered unconstitutional, is completely inaccurate. The 2005 key shareholder law was unconstitutional and, in fact, not unconstitutional, but contrary to Community law. Finally, however, the decision of the Council of State 2011 and of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 2008 allows a balance, just as I had described it, when the House voted in 2001 and aggregated Members called for strict measures against the main shareholder and in favour of the unconventional ones. I had warned then that there is the limit of European Community law. And that finally became clear from the development of case law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second issue. He says SYRIZA's main representative said there would be a tender, price fixing per licence, while it's per category. I didn't say that. Price fixing - starting price probably - will be done per category. The tender may, however, also be made on licence. The crucial thing is to agree here that permits will be as many technically possible. Where digital technology allows a ‘n’ number of licences, they must be auctioned. What I said, however, is crucial is another. Why would someone pay a price higher than what the market justifies, the expectation of profitability and survival of their business? Why does someone want to do a loss-making business? Does he have any money to launder? Does he want to engage in a smuggling of political influence? So explain it to us. To stir this up by the National Broadcasting Council. Because you say a number of words that you'll change the scenery. The result will be to keep the broadcasting landscape as it is now under pressure and political blackmail, and to launch an opaque transaction with unknown interests that are caradocon and in the middle of a wheelchair to be Mr. Tsipras with Mr. Papa. This does not help you or democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Venizelo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u131	You're always saying you're going to hit the complication. So what are you going to do specifically in relation to public supplies and projects? What are you gonna do? Do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u132	Close, Mr. Venizelo. Warm request.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u133	Therefore, to invoke, through Mr Katrugalos, the government once again the argument of the arrogance of the elector is unsensitive. All right, your government has a 39.2% majority in the electorate, less than the last thirty years. Does that mean that democracy and history are beginning in the country now? Now there are problems that outweigh the strength of democratic institutions and you have a great responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u136	What do you want, Mr. Red? What's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Venizelos said we were inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u138	Please, Mr. Red. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like to make a personal report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u140	I'm sorry, but it wasn't a personal matter. No further debate is planned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Venizelos said we were inaccurate. That's why I'd like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Red, sit down. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u143	I remind you of three decisions...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Red, I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u145	But he said, Mr President, that we are inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u146	The Bureau has not given you the floor. Please take a seat. The debate cannot continue any further. All parties were placed. The word and the conjugates, etc., were placed. The debate is closed, pursuant to Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of constitutionality. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Responding to the objection]] Obviously, the number of Members required and provided for in the Rules of Procedure has not been raised, and the objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. We continue with the special speaker of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u148	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo? I've already given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u149	Excuse me, Mr. President. I'd like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u150	Oh, no. Excuse me, you two. I gave the floor to a special speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u151	But I've been yelling so long and you can't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u152	Be patient with the special speaker, and if you want anything, you can intervene. Here, Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u153	I will begin with the reactions and confrontations that existed some time ago by the two rapporteurs of the Government and of the Anti-Population Officer. We heard that they were blaming each other, and that they were supposedly not doing what they had to do toward the big-timers and the big-timers, they did not get the money they owed or let them completely uncontrollable, and the others put them before their responsibilities, because in this bill the current government continues to do what they did. So, in this part, they're right, each other and the other. This proves paradoxically that none of the parties of the anti-constitutional and octopus arc are in the mood to deal with the big-fashioned and the big-worked ones. I can say directly that, unfortunately, you are all front-wing people who are coming in to cover the existing interests. We had the mood as Golden Dawn, after twenty-five years to support the bill, it came to observe some basic rules that we as Golden Dawn set. Unfortunately, we do not see any of this being observed. In fact, we heard some time ago - I repeat - the two rapporteurs complaining to each other, admitting that they have left large-scale fighters and big-blooders to do what they want in our country, the ones ruling ten, fifteen, twenty-years having granted these permits belonging to the Greek people, not taking the money they should take and letting them take sea-loving, not the banks of course, but the Greek people. This money was stolen - because it is theft - because the money they took from banks will never turn it back, none of them. The Greek people from their misery are constantly paying for it as a recapitalisation. So we say once again as Golden Dawn that this money has been stolen from the pockets of the Greek people and one throws the ball to the other, but without the power, Mr Ministers of Government, to do what they should do. We expected, with this bill and with what we heard from you, that you would put the knife in the bone and require at least the elementary ones. And it was not only what we heard from the rapporteurs, but by taking the floor at some point, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said that "we are against the interests and what this bill can do to the old bosses and owners of the television stations" - which everyone is smiling, but no one dares to put them in essence - "it is to allow them to take part in the competition again." That is the punishment that the current government will put them: it will allow them to take part in the competition with the new conditions and conditions, which the new government has allegedly put forward. So, what they stole, what they ate, what dishonest and illegal did, we throw it in the can of the useless, we go out, we have both the right and the left and the centre and whatever government there was and there is in Greece to cover them and give them forgiveness. Congratulations, gentlemen, and the Government and the Opposition and all the parties from which the House is composed! Minister, let's go to the bill you've brought. The truth is, there are several responsibilities that you take on you. I will tell you that you may be well-intentioned and keep up the process, as you must observe it and do what you are doing. You'll show it along the way. However, I would like to stress this: are you not afraid of yourself in this bill, if at some point your resignation loses elections and takes over another party or another Minister comes, will this Minister be the same of good intentions as you? So, this Minister will not be at his disposal, as will yours now, to officially manipulate the media and television stations? Because you are not currently legislating for SYRIZA just for the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government, but for what is coming. So you cover the respective authority and give a press - to which I think you all agree, regardless of the cohorts that are supposed to exist - to any post-Minister to take on this role and do what you supposedly brought the bill to deal with. Unfortunately, it's not the best. We have heard, then, once again in this Chamber talking about democracy, about pluralism of opinion. In accordance with Article 15(2) - we will also repeat it - there are two principles governing radio and television: the principle of objectivity and equality. These are as far as you, your own parties, your own views. As far as the third political power is concerned, which is expressed by the Golden Dawn, no matter how much you want all of it, there is none of it. On the contrary, there is a complete distortion of reality and a full coverage of ours. Yesterday in committee - and I think you saw that we have been trying to get as low a couple of days ago, not to exacerbate the situation and to hear good things that we expected we would hear, which unfortunately did not happen - we asked a question. We asked the representatives of ERT this: why is the Golden Dawn not called on public television? Imagine, not even private, but public. You, a few months ago, Minister, were here and you answered me to my same question again that you would take care to deal with the Golden Dawn from at least public television to be appropriate. I repeat that we are not asking for any favor as Golden Dawn, but we are asking for what is right and what is right. I'm sorry, but nothing happened to what you said to me. So while we asked the ERT officials yesterday, they answered us - without being ashamed of what they said - this: they do not want the other parties to be you, so we do not call you. Good, this is your democracy? If that's democracy, I'm sorry, but I prefer not to be with them. So if he doesn't want any of the other parties to be in Parliament, we won't be candidates in the other elections so that we won't ruin your grace? I don't understand that thing! I repeat, therefore, that we demand that we do so as Golden Dawn - and you must commit yourself to this, Minister - at least to public television in order for there to be a representation of the Golden Dawn. It requires our thousands of voters - we are the third parliamentary force - and they demand it and many other Greek citizens want it, voters of other parties, who want to know what the Golden Dawn says, and not what you say, not what the various opposing political parties say about us or what the various news reports of the eight, nine and ten say. Interpliers, who are opponents, only unite in one, at the expense of the Golden Dawn. So the Greek people want to know the positions of the Golden Dawn. You must, if you are a democrat, and if you are fundamentally respecting everything you say, give us the right to speak and represent our space and ourselves. So since I have heard a lot of talk about all these beautiful democracy, pluralism and all the rest of it, I repeat that when the media came out of the mud bones toward us, when about two years ago we were smuggled into various prisons, there was no official charge against us, but there is only some evidence that as long as the weather is constantly falling apart, like those who said it and those who supported it, no one came out of all the 'democrats' to say that what is happening is not right, it is not ethical. No one has come out to say that it is not human - if you like - the leader of the third parliamentary power and its MPs roaming around iron buckets, obviously to humiliate us in the eyes of the world, which, of course, you have not succeeded, and to break our morale, which, of course, you have not succeeded. But then I would absolutely respect it if someone dated and pointed it out and said it then. Because I personally tell you that as many political disagreements as I have with some, however politically rival we may be, his right to any human being I would never try to deprive him of it and the rest of the Chrysayites and Chrysayas. We're the ones who blame us so much! But we can say too much for you. I'm coming back to the bill. We have heard that it will be done by the PSE. Except, Minister, right now, it doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. So there must first be the PSE to give the opinion. So because it is rather time-consuming, I would like you to answer us - together with some other questions I will ask you at the end - what is your timetable for this. So when do you expect this process to be over? Because if we go into this process and leave one, two or three years, it's more likely that you yourself who are now saying that you want to get rid of the intermittent and big-timers you'll probably be with them, you'll probably drink and eat, as we see happens in the last few days with high-level SYRIZA officials, who meet with big-time rulers or representatives of big-time rulers. So I guess they're going to find them slowly. Indeed, once you allow them to take part in the procedure again, think and tell me how funny it would be for them to be. There really is going to be a very funny case, to say all of this right now, to shout about a bill that is supposed to come and finally see after six, five months, one year - you will tell us what the timeframe is - the licenses will be to the already existing people. That's where it's going to be a craving, really. Let's see. There is also an economic parameter that we have in this bill and to which we would like to stand. In particular, it says that it is not possible to calculate the costs of the new company linked to the ERT. The amount of this expenditure depends on facts and on the adoption of relevant administrative acts at the expense of the budget. Number zero. Then the same applies to E.T.T. There's nothing there. The same applies to the costs incurred in covering the operating costs of the new company, the amount of which cannot be estimated in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u154	If you have goodness, tell me which text you read from.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u155	We are in Article 18(3) for E.T.T. And we are in Articles 44 to 51 on the last thing I told you about the amount of expenditure which cannot be estimated in advance. I would really like you to answer that. We are also opposed to restrictions on licences. There is no reason why there should be a restriction of authorisation. Because if there is containment, there is most likely that the owners and occupants will get the licenses again, those who probably steal all these years the Greek people have enough money in their reserve, they have enough money in their fund, and they will be able to regain the frequencies of the Greek people, the Greek public. That would again be something I would like to talk about. Since the day before yesterday in the Commission, Mr Minister, we have asked you some questions that we have not received an answer. If we had received an answer and were things that satisfied us, we would have voted 'yes' in this bill. We don't have a problem. Unfortunately, however, in your silence you have not given us this opportunity. I would like to repeat them quickly: what about existing licences for television stations? Will they really be reviewed from a zero basis? Because if that is the case, most television stations at the moment and at this transitional stage will have to be closed because they are currently not fulfilling these conditions. So, if this process takes one, a year and a half, other television stations will work for which you and we all know that they do not meet the conditions that you have already set. Secondly, what about the fines imposed by the ERR on several television stations? We know very well that, fortunately, the PSE is putting some fines, but unfortunately the big-timers never pay. And they don't pay either by'so I want' or by coming to a so-called 'lisverissi', by compensation that we will play some advertising or do some such procedure to cover the existing amount. So they take money and give us advertising time - if they do that too! And I come to something else. We are asking once again - we have said it, but we will continue to say it - what will happen with their loans. It is not possible that these people have taken loans to the Greek people and that no one asks them to return them. This has to be over. That was something you were given the opportunity to do now, with which you would really show that you have a different attitude and an opinion with the previous ones. Unfortunately, however, all we are seeing is that there are again, in the Chamber, as if there are some locusts on the substance. These big-bankers, these big-fruits, those who for twenty-five years, unfortunately, have done what they wanted to the Greek public and the Greek people, stay in the unavoidable and what they have taken into their pockets, in their businesses and in the best of cases they will simply leave the active action. Actually, they don't have any damage. I would like to talk about all this, as well as give us some answers. Unfortunately, as Golden Dawn, we say that we will not be able to support this bill, because we do not think it covers us at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u156	Before giving the floor to Mr. Special Speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Papatheodorou, I would like to inform you that Mr. Loverdes had asked for the floor. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I have been asking you for the floor since Mr Katrugalos' speech ended. And I did that, Mr President, because we are now going to be placed. Since yesterday, we have issued a communication and I want to see - through the two Ministers which are here - whether there is a message about changes to the draft law which will affect both the attitude of the parties and the Members of Parliament. So yesterday, Mr President, we issued a communication which we said we had three - which Mr Papatheodorou also had in committee - very great reservations. The first relates to the need for the Minister to adapt to the remarks sent by the National Broadcasting Council. The second reservation is to adapt the legislation with the initiative of the Minister of State to technological developments. The third reservation is about proving respect for the independent authorities in full through the regulations. When Mr. Katrugalos answered, we got the message that you're not going to make any change. Is that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u159	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u160	Mr Loverdo, we have also committed ourselves to specific changes to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u161	I said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u162	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u163	Yes, and I said you said that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u164	Not to remove. I've been watching you. I may not have been in the Chamber, but I've been watching you. We have therefore committed ourselves to this paragraph and to the stickers that Mr Karras wanted, but also to others that we have discussed since the committee meeting with Mr Papatheodorou. These are legislative improvements, which will be submitted. That is what we committed ourselves to in the committees. They will be tabled by night, and I think they will cover a very large part of the well-meaning debate that has taken place in the committees. From there on, I want to say two more things that you have touched. The first to defend the independent and regulatory authorities - they are, they are not constitutionally guaranteed - will be us. We will not only do this in legislation, but also by cancelling all this misery that has been played through the regulatory authorities against transparency, against the law - and the national and European - and against the circumvention of constitutionally guaranteed powers, namely the government - of executive power - and legislative power and judicial power. In other words, it is what has been done by the EU T.T. In recent years, which we will be presenting next.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers and Mr Minister, so the basics remain the same, we do not change anything, we will see it along the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u167	No, what we agreed with Mr. Loverdo is changing, you'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u168	It is important, because today all the evolution of the debate that has been initiated by the unconstitutionality or the objection we have raised must come to the point that it will reveal or demonstrate more that this unconstitutionality, which we believe exists, also has another aspect, which is political feasibility. Why are we doing this? We have already stressed yesterday - Mr Loverdes said so to the committee - that the Democratic Reconciliation defends the need to reform the legislative regime, the legislative framework governing the functioning of the media, so as to ensure transparency and to protect the constitutional right to information, but also the constitutional right to the free development of the economy, to free competition, to ensure the legality and order in the broadcasting landscape and the compatibility of the national legislative framework with European law. That is why, so far, we have continued to express our reservations. Why? Because in a series of arrangements contained in this bill - and there are many - we have a circumvention of more priorities that we have set ourselves, while noting that these arrangements resurrect authoritarianism, a concept of party ownership for the functioning of the media and, in fact, shrink pluralism and pluralism in the information required by the Constitution. With the present regulations, there is a reasonable suspicion that the government actually wants to replace the so-called "television fireplaces" with new, essentially to reclassify and control the broadcasting landscape and not to combat the complexity, as it claims. We said yesterday that in these regulations there are provisions which are thermospheric bumpers. I have had the opportunity to tell the Minister during the debate in committee that Article 2 becomes the pan-authorized broadcaster of the broadcasting landscape, who not only determines the number - and we will see whether he can also determine the number - of the licences to be auctioned in accordance with the Constitution, but also defines the scope category, national or regional, the type of content, if it is an information programme, of the subject matter in the event of a non-information programme, that is to say, everything, following a legal and technological but also politically outdated, in many respects. The imposition of a closed number of television licences is a restriction on television pluralism. We have to accept this, that is: the closed number of licences is the restriction of television pluralism at the present time, but in which there is no longer the scarcity of the good, there is no scarcity of the frequency. The digital platform now gives a great deal of potential. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have said that the shape you are proposing is obsolete, it meets in the 1990s and not in the 2020s, it has a clear political feasibility to highlight it, but it is not only politically old-fashioned, it is also technologically old-fashioned. Because new technology, by compressing the digital spectrum, will soon give full competence to a large number of channels. This bill only regulates the licensing of linear audiovisual services providers, by repeating the provisions governing analogue television and radio, despite the fact that we have entered the digital age. I am not saying that, the position of the National Broadcasting Council. Here is very important to read what he says. It says that, not only is it not mentioned in the 2010 directive, but on the other hand, the whole organisation of the bill is done by a technology which is obsolete. The National Broadcasting Council tells you, which you have just said you are respecting, that you are respecting the independent authorities and not only emphasises this, but also highlights other things that we will see during the debate. That's why we're saying that you don't need that much trouble to control licenses and content, when the development of frequencies will be so great in the next period, where this law will really be very behind the needs of technology. Another question arises and we will see it immediately whether it is constitutional or not. We are asked the question of the classification of licences. On which criterion did you separate them according to the type of programme, information, general, thematic and non-informational nature? What is the study that offered you this thing, this model? And in what European country do we meet this model? I return to what the National Broadcasting Council said. In your suggestion, on page 3, it says that such discrimination does not appear to exist in any European country. Can't we hear it? If there's nowhere else, why do we do it? Are we doing this because there is any specific innovation in what we propose? I guess we're doing it because we have a whole different intention. But we need to talk about it, because we need to get out of this debate more wisely. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that the government has not done any study, no frequency study, no study on relocation, no study on the number of employees, no study that can be shown by some third parties to have said 'yes, this model exists or these are the needs of the country'. There is no study, because there is, in fact, a political feasibility for the redistribution of interests and the redistribution of wealth, which imagines exists in this area. We talked to you yesterday about the risk of the thermoplastic interface and the projection of a suffocating suffocation with fireplaces that seem to be preparing for new taxes in the broadcasting field. That is why there is no justification and no study. The question, too, is, what is the real will of the legislator, what is the real will of the Minister introducing this draft law? What does Mr. Pappas say? Mr. Pappas said to committee: 'Do not blame me for everything. The only competence that comes to the Minister is the definition of the number." Let's see. I am standing on two points, which I think are unconstitutional, because you will vote on it, colleagues of SYRIZA and ANEL, and you will vote for it and we will find it before us. With regard to the protection of the National Broadcasting Council, I would like to say that the protection of the PSE is not the task of one of Parliament's wings. It is everyone's duty, and here we are violating his responsibilities, but in order to violate them we will have a reason, and that is why I want to highlight. The provision of Article 2 states that the Minister decides the number of licences and the provision of the broadcasting landscape. That was the current view before 2001, before the constitutional review. Article 15(2) of the Constitution states that radio and television fall under the direct control of the state. It stated that this control of the state falls within the exclusive competence of the PSE. It has also specified that, when we say control, control takes the form of prior authorisation and is intended to be objectively informed. It's Article 15(2). What does that mean? It means if the PSE has sole responsibility, the Minister can't have it. This provision is therefore unconstitutional. Why is it going on? It is because it allows the Minister, the current minister and tomorrow's, to define the percentage and the kind of television pluralism, what we will see. That is why this provision has been made. That's why the Minister doesn't want to get her back. Why even what we proposed to him yesterday, should there be a consensus and a reasoned opinion on the part of the PSE, which makes sense, does not want to accept it? Why does he not want a Minister to be assured in agreement of a constitutionally guaranteed independent authority? He doesn't want to because he wants to control the pluralism rate that's going to exist in the broadcasting scenery. That is political feasibility, and that is what we are showing today. This independent authority, which has exclusive competence to decide, says in its report that authorisation cannot be granted, that is to say, as provided for in the draft law that we are debating today. It's not just her job to choose the contractors. The Minister may only intervene within constitutional limits in the formulation of the legislative framework, as the Constitution says. Here, therefore, the political question of government intervention also comes within the exclusive competence of an independent authority and we will find it before us. The second problem of unconstitutionalism, but very serious, has to do with Articles 4 and 5, ladies and gentlemen. It is about the denomination of shares, but also about the articles relating to the number of workers. I'll tell you something that I read in one of SYRIZA's announcements just before the elections. It's really very interesting. So, some time ago, the Council of State in its recent pension decisions - remember? - considered that cuts were unconstitutional because there was no comprehensive and sufficiently justified economic study justifying the arrangements for limiting rights and proving that these cuts are necessary. So the CoR said that this is why these cuts are unconstitutional and indeed then SYRIZA had said that it is the right to fight. Let's see. In this draft law, the legislator lays down financial conditions for the authorisation of equity, the number of employees, arbitraryly affecting the exercise of fundamental rights, such as the right to information, economic freedom, without any prior study by the Ministry or the PSE. The PSE points out this in its report. In these circumstances, I believe that Parliament, not only cannot legislate unconstitutionally, but neither consent to a pragmatic change in the legislative system in the broadcasting landscape, which, if not adapted to the constitutional framework and to European law, will be changed to a thermospheric interface. Furthermore, Article 4 on the minimum paid-up capital for the acquisition of a licence laid down in the bill, as well as the conditions laid down for the staff concerned, do not take into account the market conditions and lead to exclusion from the competitive process of small media, in particular regional ones. I'll tell you something else. Today I spoke to the Municipal Radio of Thessaloniki. We forgot about municipal radios and municipal TVs. They are excluded from this procedure. They're practically sneezing, the employees are fired. There is no possibility of being involved in this context, no position is recognized, because we know very well that municipalities cannot make anonymous companies. In this case, therefore, a party which is coming or a government which has so far defended social character should be launched by those who will be damaged by the policy it is going to implement. No, he doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u169	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u170	I know, Mr. Lappa, you said that yesterday. Has it been so difficult, since we are cut for the social rights of workers, not to ignore those of municipal television and municipal radios? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am not going to break too much time, I am asking for minimal tolerance. In Article 9, I repeat the question, on what criteria have you set the number of workers? Why aren't they less or more per category? Why, for example, is it eight million for national channels and it is not ten, fifteen? There is no justification for all the things you ask the Greek Parliament to discuss and vote on. We also have the recommendation of the ERT - net S.A. in Article 16. A public body is still being set up. Nor is there sufficient evidence that the EUR 7 million will be spent by the public for the company linked to the ERT. I also asked the representatives of the ERT yesterday - the Ministry has told us nothing, because there is no budget and no study - how much the installation will cost. I am in favour of pluralism and competition right now. I tell you there is not only one provider, like DIGEA, but many. How much does it cost? Who's gonna pay for it? Where will this financial burden be transferred? To the consumer, to the citizen. That's what we're talking about. What matters is also this: until now, two days before we are discussing, no convincing answers have been given to all these questions, only we have understood the political feasibility behind this bill. If we are to talk about political feasibility, you understand that we have a long distance from your own feasibility, from your own purpose. That is why, until the Minister and the ministers are placed on these objections, we continue to expect at least a political response, which will combine the reform with respect for the constitutional framework and above all respect for European law, which will come to control. Because there is no EPP, but you intend to change the independent authorities, not only because they work in a problem, but because you want to make your own. And that's the biggest problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u171	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and students and four educational sessions from the 2nd Gymnasium of Pyrgos. Welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, both in the committee and in the House today we want to repeat this question: why did the government want to bring in and vote on this bill in a fast track procedure? The main objectives of this rush are, in our view, two. One has to do with the government's pursuit of a communal distraction, at a time when the bills, hard, barbaric anti-grass measures come behind each other, at a time when our people and their rights are crushed daily. Last week we had the plan with 30% of the total prerequisites, we have Mr. Friends' 'fifteen', we have the debate on the insurance that puts gravel on what remains of social security rights, the debate on the preliminary draft state budget, which contains a cost of EUR 6 billion for the people's needs, EUR 4.5 billion from additional taxes and EUR 2 billion from expenditure cuts, the negotiations on the auctions are going on and saying. So, in fact, the government in this bill wants to cultivate the false image of the people, that it is allegedly putting them in some interests, that it is putting order, that it is supposedly fighting the oligarchy, when its overall policy, but also its policy in particular in the media, serves precisely this oligarchy, capital and certain parts of it. The difference between the current government and the previous governments is precisely that. We say that this is not going to last long, but at this stage you have the ability, through such communication tricks, to implement tough measures that have now required capital - a characteristic case of insurance - and that the previous governments have not been able to carry them through and implement them for a number of reasons. You guys come to finish this dirty work that the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK did not complete. You also have the impression that the people, through this process of the so-called 'parallel programme', as you say, have something to gain. In our view, it has nothing to gain at all. The question is: If this bill is passed, if other bills of the so-called 'parallel' programme referred to by the government are passed, there will be no wage and pension reductions, there will be no increase in the retirement age limits, there will be a stewardship of the populace, no implementation of this whole neck, which you have in the scarfs, and quickly implemented? Of course not. All of this will be implemented properly, unless the people with their struggle, through their intervention in developments, prevent you. At least as a JRC that is what we will do, that is where we will take the lead, in order for the people to really be able to put their matching mark on developments. The second and most important objective pursued by the government through this draft law is to speed up the process of redistributing the market in the media sector, the process of collecting pie into even less hands. In the field of regional channels and stations in particular, this is obvious because, in terms of the criteria they go, objectively some small stations will be thrown out of the market and the pie will be sold, the market, from even less hands. Perhaps some old people go out, some young people enter the market, both domestic and international groups, because many of them are said here. We're not clearing it all. For example, we have heard about transatlantic interest in interest from other countries in the European Union. In any event, regardless of the rumours that exist, the bill with its arrangements, with the international tendering procedure, with the possibility of participating foreign companies and even companies that will be exempted from the obligation to name their shares, whether foreign companies or that concerns listed stock exchanges of the European Union and the OECD, objectively gives this possibility. There has also been a lot of talk from the other opposition parties that the Minister wants to become a canalarch, wrong in our opinion, portraying the bill and hiding its substance, because with the substance of the bill and the rest of the parties agree. On individual issues, they disagree. We want to say that we don't blame the Minister for wanting to become a ruler. We don't blame him for that. But we blame him and criticise him because he is essentially playing the role of arbitrator of great business interests, playing the role of arbitrator of old and new groups competing for sharing, sharing the pie in the media, without being questioned by the government to the very least that the media belonged, owned and owned by these great business interests. Another issue, of course, is that through this process of licensing auctioning, the government, like the previous ones - all of them - did this, not of course, are acquitted - seeks to form an even more friendly business block towards it in the media sector. And we will say this again: not that today is hostile - because that is what is going on a lot of talk and debate. The criticism made by some of the media in the government is essentially to advance anti-grassroots reforms, to abandon - as they say - certain ideological burdens they have and to adapt to the reality they want, something they already do by the government. It is simply the criticism that is being made that this will accelerate and move at even faster rate. The bill, in our view, is opaque in itself. I say this because there is a debate on transparency, legality and it goes on to say. And why is it opaque? Because on very critical issues such as the number of licences, the starting price of tenders, the share capital of regional channels, all of which are not issues, are not partial, they are not relevant, but they also define the rest of the conditions of the competition, they are all left open, they are left 'in the air', to be settled along with decisions by government and ministerial. Basically, we have to vote on a bill and give the government a white authorisation to regulate a number of such issues. And the question is this: why does the government raise these issues which we have referred to do not specifically in the text of the bill? At times, representatives of the government have been asked how many licences will be granted. Another says five, another says six, seven, eight and goes by saying. Why does all this not clearly go into the text of the bill? What's the problem? What criteria will be laid down for authorisations? You used to say - I remember in the committee we discussed the draft law on ERT - that they will be decided on the basis of sustainability criteria. You don't have viability studies of the Greek market? You haven't done it? So put the number! Therefore, since all these issues, which are crucial, remain unregulated and are referred to decisions in the future, you are giving us the opportunity and the right to believe that this is where a negotiation is taking place, a bargain with various current or future candidate owners and shareholders around these issues. Second theme: Transparency and involvement in the media, really where does it come from? Is this about some bad owners and shareholders? In our opinion, it stems from where corruption and the involvement of all the sectors of the economy and this system are concerned, namely, the fact that frequencies, channels, the media have specific business interests, industrialists, shipowners, large capital and it goes on to say. And the question is this: is this going to change with this bill? Will all this cease to belong to great business interests? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Just instead of the renewal process and the extension of authorisations granted over all these years, the government has chosen this to be done under the tender procedure. However, it is still the business groups that will have the media in their hands, and this is reflected in Article 3 of the bill, which provides for the legal form of candidates, public limited companies and public limited companies and goes on to say. And here we're really going to go crazy. We heard SYRIZA's rapporteur talking about collectives, about social actors, who should... etc. Is there any of this in the bill? Are you kidding us? Here, even the special-purpose companies that the municipalities have, to have municipal TVs and municipal radios, even those who are forced to convert them into anonymous speculative companies, while so far they have been subsidised by municipal councils and municipal budgets, and you are making them either shut down or change their character and proceed to partnerships with various entrepreneurs. In fact, we recognize that this is your ability: Make the black white, baptize the fish meat and talk about collectives, mass and social actors - what SYRIZA said in an election campaign, but these were 'last year's', which say - when not only here, you put the big entrepreneurs, but you also take measures to raise the market in the media area. What Article 3 also says that the candidate must be an undertaking that is exclusively active in the media sector, and that is still air unscathed. Is there now a business shareholder operating in a legal form, as it is called, in the media field and at the same time not having other parallel business activities? They're industrialists, shipowners, bank shareholders, and they go out and say. In fact, they make use of the frequencies and channels for their service and competition in their other activities. Here is the main difference between the channels, the media as business, and the rest. An enterprise in the media sector may be loss-making and retaining its share as loss-making. For what? Because they're doing their job in another field. That's the reality. And of course, their main role is as a mechanism for the reproduction of sovereign ideology and sovereign propaganda. So there is the womb of corruption and interlocutory. And leave all that the government and the other parties in the Opposition say that there will be unadulterated and healthy competition here. Once the market is monopolised, there can be no such sound and undistorted competition. Third matter. It says in the bill that pluralism, television product quality and objective information will be ensured. Where does it appear that the objective information and the quality of the television product will be ensured? So, what's everyone gonna do? Are they going to highlight the problems, the rights, the struggles of workers and go by saying? Or will you force them to play TV program on this basis? They'll play whatever they want. They will show their needs as capital. Of course, because they have their particular preferences, they are not all the same, they have their particular preferences, there may be such a pluralism among them. But as far as the people are concerned, their rights, their concerns and so on, all of them will have a strong hostile view. It is not objective either the current state broadcasting, Minister, which you are supervising. If one follows some broadcasts and some news reports from state broadcasting, one thinks that he lives in another country, that problems are solved, that, where there is something, the government is dealing with it and goes by saying. That's the reality. Nor is there any objectivity and pluralism in state broadcasting, as we at least understand it. Fourth issue - I say it quickly - is the denomination of the shares. The rest will be discussed in the debate on the articles. We have also said so in committee, and we have said so once again. We would like to remind you that the nameisation of the shares has been a constant demand from the JRC for years - which has always been rejected - not because we have the illusion that if the shares are nominated, the problem of corruption will be dealt with, but even so that there will be another mistake. But it's rejected. You are now bringing Article 5, which reads ‘denomination of shares’, and at the same time Article 3 and Article 4, exceptions are made to this obligation. Mr Famellos who spoke before in the debate on the objection of unconstitutionalism and on the issue of denomination, at random, forgot Article 4. Article 4 isn't there, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u173	I'll take the floor to tell you. After you're mentioned, I'll take the floor to answer your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u174	But you forgot before. You have forgotten before that there is an exception to the obligation to denomination in relation to listed companies in the European Union and the OECD, which effectively cancels any control, as well as cancels any obstacles or incompatible with Article 6, since there is no such control right up to natural persons. I'm just finishing up with the workers. There's Article 9. In our view, it is incomplete. There must be a provision that we are talking about a collective labour contract as far as the employment contract is concerned. We are talking about employees of indefinite duration, working with organograms and on the basis of sectoral collective agreements between the associations concerned, journalists, technicians and saying. Also, this obligation to respect staff and non-refugee, non-energy, industrial relations will exist throughout the course of possession of the licence. Because Article 15, which provides for the reasons for withdrawal of the licence, has a reduction in staff - that if staff are reduced, leave is withdrawn - but it does not state that, if staff are made redundant, working relationships in the media are changed, then the licence is withdrawn. For other issues relating to the State ‘ERT-net’, etc. We will refer to the articles. I just want to say this: the JRC is clear that it will vote against the government's bill, it will fight against any negative effects that have on both workers' rights and the right to information. And, of course, what we want to emphasise, once again, above all towards the people who are listening to us is that the right to information, the right to entertainment, to culture, which the media should promote, can only be guaranteed when frequencies, infrastructure, telecommunications, are real social property, people's property, which will operate on the basis of popular needs, by means of labour control and, of course, in the context of radical overturning, power. Otherwise, none of what the bill says as declarations is going to be guaranteed. And that is not just the issue of information. There's another topic, that of parasiticism in this space. For the needs of business groups, channels, advertising and competition, human resources are being wasted, which could actually be used in another economy to satisfy the people's needs and not in the interests of business groups. For all these reasons, the JRC is voting against the bill in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u175	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Here you go, Mr. Colleague, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u177	It has been mentioned several times in my face, Mr President. I want to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u178	I didn't attack you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u179	But it's not personal. The report was related to the suggestion, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u180	Can I have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u181	I don't see the staff now. Anyway, please take the floor for a minute, to explain the reason for your personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, my colleague referred to my face by putting forward a view that we are not in favour of denomination of shares inadvertently because he obviously does not know that institutionally and in accordance with the existing institutional framework, listed companies on the Stock Exchange are legally dubious. I must therefore draw attention to him, because he is not aware of the legislation, and I must say that we are obviously in favour of denomination of all companies and their shares and there is no point in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u183	Mr Amyras Georgios, special speaker from the Potamian Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the permission to have and operate a television station is the equivalent of the license to print money. For twenty-five years we have felt this, understood it, and we have seen it in live transmission from our recipients. He ran money politics, circulated money as a contractor, business, party. For twenty-five years the parties that have been in power have left a situation to rot in the broadcasting landscape, despite the fact that the whole world, all of us, otherwise, started with freedom at that time - as was called - private television and radio - twenty-five years ago. The truth is, we had a good time. We saw the Court of First Instance, 'Children of the Night', and we saw President Leventis. At some point, however, we have built up and started to watch TV programmes a little more seriously, and we have seen the double gothic axe, a complex that hit and united two sides, the parties that ruled and some courtyard of strong businessmen, who, of course, with bank lending, banks, did what they wanted in the broadcasting landscape. We must, of course, recognise that the name for the notorious complexion had been given by Constantine Mitsotakis. Is this about interacting? No one has proved anything so far, Minister. Everyone speaks, the parties, the MPs, the citizens, the world every day. What evidence do we have? A reflection of some of the evidence - I think - we can find it that eleven media companies in these two decades came from the banking system around EUR 820,000. Of course, late is 39,000,000, a small percentage. Also, the Minister yesterday made it clear that they have paid their taxes, they are insurance and tax information and, in any case, they are elsewhere. At the same time, two parties owe three banks 250,000,000 euros, with the highest amount in delay. So this is the situation that definitely justifies, explains and interprets why for twenty-five years this landscape has remained unregulated and is a part of society, the economy, entrepreneurship, which has been directly interconnected with the functioning and the quality of our democracy. People did zapping on the channels, that's where the complication was. He's been zapping to the governments, and that's where the complication is. And then what? Then came the first time, the second time left or rather left right, because with their co-pilots ANELs, co-pilots who are racist, homophobic and anti-Semitismists I wonder how SYRIZA MPs do not rise up when they hear their co-pilots express a dark speech here and outside the House. Well, let's see. The first time has come to the left. From this step on February 10, Stavros Theodorakis, in his first speech, had turned to the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, and said to him: "Get the permit bill now, soon, to support you, but be a transparent, just, a clean bill, to put a class on the ground." We've been waiting seven months. It's just windstorm. Where's this bill? Here's the bill, there's the bill. Here a priest, there a priest, emerged Nikolaos Papapas, the strong man, who a minister, a natural person will decide on how many channels they will operate, how many permits and how much money they will give. Yesterday, Mr Pappas said to the committee: 'Hey, I do not decide for much, just for them'. Well, he doesn't want more. If you decide how many channels will work and how much money, you got 80% of the game on you. But you are also deciding on others, Mr Minister, and of course the Minister of State. So the Minister will decide, in addition to the number of channels and the money that those who claim these licences should give, on the minimum paid-in share capital that companies should have, which will claim permission for regional channels. The Minister will decide. It also sets the Minister himself the minimum number of employees per specialty. I think I'm more experienced to tell him at a TV station how many must be journalists and how many models. Where does your knowledge come from? The experience, no. So, what are your criteria not only on this matter and all the previous ones? It also decides that the Minister should adjust according to the amounts of the own funds to be allocated to the channels, Article 14. It also approves the founding law of the ‘ERT-net’, the subsidiary or the company linked to the ERT for the provision of a digital terrestrial network. He appoints five of the seven members of this company. And the Minister, a man, a natural person, without any other decisive competence or association of anyone else, amends the frequency maps. If this is not the definition of creating appropriate conditions for neo-complexation, who is it? Here we have a retreat of the rule of law, we have a retreat of the social achievements, and we also have a strengthening of state interventionism. However, this state intervention -'stops' the bill from this mood, intervenes by a minister, a government in everything that has to do with the broadcasting field - I think it is a little bit of what, slightly - forgive me the expression - ridiculous and failed. You say, for example, 'The minimum number of workers at a station, TV channel, all over the world, is the four hundred people'. So if, after a few days, after the license, a technology machine comes out that leads the channel to the decision to make it, because, for example, where it has thirty moderns, it will make it a very good job, but a modern must be sacrificed. What's the business gonna do? Will he fire this surplus worker? If he fires him, he goes to the three hundred ninety-nine workers, so he loses his license. Is he gonna keep him? And the other one will tell you: "What can I do if it doesn't give me work, don't I need it?" So, I want to tell you that reality, real life, and entrepreneurship are a wave of huge, which as many dams as you put it to guide you where you want, will make it all smug. As far as the 'high price' is concerned, it is a great deal of talk. "The Minister will decide how much the participants in the tender for licences should give as a starting price." Yes, sir. On what criteria? With what mathematical model? With what international experience? I will, of course, reply to you about Germany, Spain, Italy and America on how to obtain authorisations, when you, of course, tell us what you want to point out here. But there is this issue, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to point out to you. I have not even heard it in the committees from someone point it out. There is a risk, if we leave a minister, a man, that he decides what the starting price, the price is not high, that we have a cheap entry of new players. Already the condition for EUR 8 million share capital is an easy and small condition, a small obstacle to someone who has a lot of money or a lot of businesses. Watch out, now. By making it easy for the potential cheap entry of new players to the competition, at the same time, we also make it cheap and easy to get out of the broadcasting field of old players. If any of the channels, the big ones, what we know, can't hit the license, what's gonna happen? The canalarch will come and tell the workers, five hundred, eight hundred, tracous, who have: "We regret, gentlemen. They didn't give us permission. We're out of work. So, hello." "Hello", however, means that the bank lending, which concerns all of us, will return to us and perhaps some old players can leave without "opening the nose" from the main door. That's why it's important for us to know. What are the auction times? When will the licence be completed? When do you think you should start sharing permits? In two months, in a year, in a year and a half? And what will you do in the time of this transition - if there is, if we call it transitional? Will you renew a licence, as in previous years, with an interim provision? One should also answer the employees of all these media in the region, in Athens, of course, in large cities, but also in municipal radios and televisions, such as TV100, about what will happen to this industry. Meanwhile, while the stride for twenty-five years had taken TV, parties, banks and all together picnics of joy and enjoyed the celebrity of the sardine, with lots of water and very salt, at the same time, a sector began to grow. Journalists, technicians, moderns, picturers, sounders. Two hundred thirty specialties, ladies and gentlemen, are linked to the television product. Two hundred thirty specialties! What will happen to them? They lead to unemployment if their businesses fail to obtain the permission. Yes, sir! How about you, as a left-wing government? How do you think to deal with these consequences? The Minister tells us that "I wish I had a good PSE to trust, to do that job". We say, is the PSE useless? To a large extent, we have to accept it, and I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u185	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u186	I say so, to help chat. Of course, there are also reflexes with the family, in any case, to create some people's feelings of withdrawal from this subject. However, in the PSE, despite the fact that you put it aside and at the corner at the decisive point, that is, who will get licenses, how many licenses and how much money you give him and work to do. You say to him, "I don't trust you, I don't want you to decide" on the other hand, but you say to this PSE, who almost made it useless to the committees: to issue the licence notice, to carry out the tender, to give an opinion on the number of licences, to draw up the list of candidates, to judge the objections, to cancel the tender and, if he considers that, to check the infringement of the terms of the licence and to withdraw the channel licence. So since you give him the power to withdraw the licence for the channels, why do you not give him the power to decide what channels and how and on what basis and on what basis will they get the licences? In other words, once you open up the road and say "These will be, in so many ways, and so will the landscape" makes the PSE for the work of the house, clean up the hallway, wash the dishes, check out some tax information, so you have it. But, Minister, a crucial point which will largely judge our position, in relation to the bill. We think that yes, of course, we had to start from somewhere. We cannot yet be hostage to this uncertainty of interlocutory in this pending party on the channels, dan every half and an hour, bank lending. We have to get out of this, it's a question of democracy, but we have to go to something better. So we in Potami are saying and suggesting - and we have also told the committees - that the PSE should be able to surround it with confidence, with increased, decisive responsibilities, where necessary, by taking some from the National Committee for Telecommunications and Postal, so that we know what the frameworks are. Not to say that the Pope and Mr. Pappas have decided, I mean every minister who takes the place of time in two years, in ten, in thirty, doesn't matter. We also asked for full denomination of the shares of Greek and foreign companies. We have debated this very much in this very notorious article 5. From this point of view, the ERC is starting the real political consensus. We can't put the cart in front of the horse. In other words, we, the government, the one Minister who I will authorize, with what procedures and with how much money, and then I say, "Come and you to do the job." Oh, no. If you really want political consensus, you should first start with the PSE, provoke the meeting of the Conference of Presidents and, in a supra-party and open, human spirit, find those members so that the difficulty can be overcome, or, if you like, the safety of the 4/5 of the increased majority. We also proposed and told you to regulate the issue of antenna parks with strict standards. There's a bill on television licenses, but the antenna park didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u187	It'll be in a separate bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u188	Good. As also Mr Spirtzi and Mr Pappas, we have not heard and see nothing about radio licensing. How urgent is it that a process has taken place under fast track conditions, as the previous speaker said, by Parliament for the licensing of televisions rather than radios?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u189	I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u190	Good. Also, what about municipal radios and televisions? That's a big deal. We have proposed additional subtitling of private channels' information programs in human hours for deaf and hard citizens. Those who are late at 3.00 p.m. have to choose between 990, "Find the word and win 2 million euros" - and I address the students, don't get these phones, you're not suckers - and they're slowly transmitting subtitled movies. No, in human hours for deaf fellow citizens. Also, the transmission of ERT's evening central card and subtitled to the Greek sign language can be from the frequency of “HighDefinition”. Finally - and I will be brief, Mr President - I will tell you about the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts. We have serious objections to the arrangements concerning the independence of the EU T.T. In particular, Article 18 by changes in disciplinary procedure raises many questions for us. Finally, for national communications policy, these provisions, Articles 22 to 54. We all saw the other day, and he's become viral all over the planet, the two soccer traumats... [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Don't laugh, gentlemen. We saw where they took him out at the famous Ergotelis - Larissa. I want to tell you, life is beyond us. What can any national communication policy do when we have this image? That is why, Mr President, in order not to drive the country into the transport of a stretcher with two such injured persons, we want you to take very seriously into account what the river is tabling you. Otherwise, we will tell you "good night and good luck in the Click family". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Before giving the floor to the next special speaker, let me make it clear to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending our meeting, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, twenty-nine students from the Netherlands. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will now give the floor to the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vasilis Kokkalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Amyras, first of all I had to consider it myself and Mr Barriots on staff because you mentioned the injured person. The man explained.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u193	But Larissa was the victim.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Red, on the bill. Don't make soccer. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we are discussing the bill today at the outset. According to his explanatory statement, he serves the principle of transparency. I will try in this short period of time to prove whether it is actually serving the principle of transparency or not. We need to remember what legislative initiatives have been taken in the past for this purpose. As I said before with Mr Venizelos, who objected to anti-constitutionalism, in 1975 there were no private channels and neither did the Constitution foresee anything to be involved. With the entry of private television, the phenomenon was gigantic. At some point, in 2001 the political system wonders: something we need to do to hit the argument. We have to do something, so that we don't think we're covering up the mess in the media. By rapporteur, Mr Venizelos, the political system then decides, finding shelter there, to review the Constitution, a high political and constitutional process. The having and the lack of legal knowledge draws a conclusion from the Constitution's Review, that something good, something permanent and permanent is being done. They import the main shareholder. In application of this provision of the Constitution, in which Mr Venizelos was rapporteur, the executive is voted on by Parliament. He was found to be unconstitutional three times. Mr. Venizelos spoke, and with all due respect I regret, I had him a teacher. Teacher for teaching and law you don't hold. I asked for the floor on personal grounds, Mr President, and you did not give it to me. It has been said that I have said inaccurate, that the law, which he has shaped, was not considered unconstitutional. I present in the minutes the decisions of the Council of State, according to which the law of Mr Venizelos has been considered unconstitutional. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because in this Chamber I have learned at least one thing, which gives me an alpine impression, that everyone can say what they want. It doesn't cost anything. Nor, Mr President, can I speak by shouting and screaming. My political culture doesn't allow me to do that. The political system was forced to do one - I would say - a serious attempt to hit the conflict in 2005. So what did the political system say? That the review I made went awkward. All the provisions were considered unconstitutional. And they were judged to be unconstitutional, because they were in direct conflict with Union law. And here alone is the danger, Minister, to judge the unconstitutionality. Nothing has to do with Article 4, Article 5, Article 10 and Article 15. Only if the provisions of these are in direct conflict with Union law, as formulated in the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, chaired by Mr Venizelos, Mr Skouris. Only on that condition. In my humble opinion, this is not the case, even with the denomination of the shares. Because the denomination of shares serves the principle of transparency, which, of course, is predominant to the principle of economic freedom. All these years, the political system has been unable to find an effective way to strike a conflict, except in 2005 - and I have to admit it - with the main shareholder. Then it was - literally - rabies opponents of the New Democracy and Mr. Loverdos. and Mr. Venizelos. No one wanted that law to pass. 'We will denounce you in the Competition Committee. We will report you to the European Commission, if you pass this law," said Mr Venizelos and Mr Lovers. Mr Loverdos - and I quote the Minutes of the House since 2005 - has even blamed the then government of Karamanlis for bringing the legal middle ages to the 21st century. And now daring, they have the courage and they swing the finger to the Members of the parliamentary majority, saying: 'Do you know what you are voting on?' For years now, therefore, the political system, being incompetent, has not even been able, even with the revision of the constitution, to place a class on the media issue. The fact that there was no licence or that the licence was temporary was the spark to light the fire of the interlocutory. For when I give a businessman a temporary leave or I don't give a licence, it's like saying to him: 'You need me.' The media said the same thing: 'My permission is temporary, but you need me too'. Here, the complication! And we come in 2015 and this government brings a simple law in a simple sense: ‘Authorisation’. And here we fight, because it's gonna be empty five or ten. So, are we legislating with common sense or are we going crazy? The fact that we say that from now on the media will automatically be licensed, in fact, means that there can be no complication. For since the holder is lawful and since he has been equipped with the permission, neither can the government have he with him nor he with the government. You forsake us because the permits will be eight, ten, fifteen. Also, with regard to the auction, how will these licences be granted? Under the most democratic procedure: by auction. Does the Greek citizen care so much if the businessman pays so much money or less? The businessman has to pay for it. Who's making the auction? And I mention it, so we can see if there are any traces of interacting in this bill. The auction will be held by the National Broadcasting Council, which will gather the documents and decide and safeguard the successful tenderer. The opposition accuses us that the Minister will arrange the price. I would ask a rhetorical question: Who - supposedly - will be intertwined? Will the Minister arrange for the price and number of licences, or will he, who compile documents, decide whether or not to accept the application? I don't think there's any convincing rival. Instead, almost wholeheartedly, the opposition smears such words as "in the first place, we are in agreement, but the objectives of Mr Pappas are others that we cannot understand. Perhaps later." But will you finally decide? You want a media outlet with permission? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u196	They're empty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u197	You want there to be auctions? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u198	They're empty. You haven't read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u199	Ms. Buddhism insists.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u200	Hey, let's insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u201	Since 2014 they have been licensed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u202	If they were allowed, Mrs Vulture, why has the Council of State said so many times that the continued extension of licences is illegal and unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u203	These licences have been returned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u204	Can you answer me? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u205	These permits, Mr Colleague, have been returned. They have digital licenses. You don't know the subject at all. You say yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Red, continue your speech. I would ask the other colleagues not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u207	No, they are not 'ours'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Red, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u209	I'm on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u210	You're saying yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u211	Mrs. Vulge, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u212	I didn't stop you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u213	Mrs Vulture and ladies and gentlemen, I have said before, at least, that I am struck by the fact that in this Chamber everyone can say what they want and what they want, and without any cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u214	You too. Just like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u215	I, your former partner, have produced decisions of the Council of State that deny him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u216	But please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u217	Mrs Vulture, we are not allowed to dialogue. Please. Mr. Red, don't answer. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u218	You're referring to the analogue signal. You're messing with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u219	Mrs Vulture, I have no problem with dialogue. If you can't stand it, you can leave. If you can't stand common sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u220	Of course, we'll say what we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Red, you are now causing. Continue your speech. Place yourself, as you think and leave others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u222	Therefore, we can accept and are welcome. Legislative improvements again can be accepted. At least, however, at the outset all parties must vote for this bill. Do we want tax immunity? Yes or no? Do we want the insurance policy, the bank? We finally want to get a class in? Yes or no? The answer to these questions must judge the attitude of all the parties in Parliament, which must be responsible and in accordance with the definitions of the Constitution. I would remind you that we have sworn to the constitution by all the Members of Parliament. In conclusion, this draft law serves the principle of transparency. The fact that he puts a class is undeniably acceptable from all sides. At the very least, it would be resilient to say that both the New Democracy and the PASOK and the Potami and the JRC 'yes' in principle, 'we are voting on it', we disagree with some articles. We propose these, we propose the others." The draft law must, in principle, be voted in favour of all aspects of Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Red, let me have a remark, if you please. Men are judged by 'no', not 'yes'. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u224	What was that, Mr. President? What's going on with that? You have a role. There are MPs who can be placed, not the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u225	Come on, Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we believe that we have come here so that we do not close it all. I regret, however, that a bill, which was so much needed by the country, which needed the broadcasting scene, a bill which has been a great deal of talk about, is a draft law which we agree and which we support for the institutional necessity of creating a clear and clear institutional framework, one of the most important bills, passes through Parliament in the form of urgency in a nice costume, which you have identified as a combination of time. They are created, even if there are no clouds for its feasibility and another historic opportunity is lost to the as many as you have been given to the total ten-month rule of the country by you. You are wrong to yourself, to give up and put your executives in a difficult position. It's a rough, knee-writing, with many questions, with ambiguities, distortions. There are few points, admittedly, which could be discussed in a fruitful manner. It all started in the summer of 1989. Under Section 4 of Article 4 of the Law. 1866/89, concerning a licence for non-State television, publishers with experience and tradition in the media received the anointing of the preferred investor for the concession of the public frequencies that would lead to the first private channels in Greece. The criteria for granting and renewing the licence shall take into account the completeness and quality of the programme, experience and delivery of the company’s shareholders to the media. The first licence concerning the testing of a local television station was issued by TLETTYPOS. It was signed on 28 August 1989 and thus the MEGA was born, which came out in the air in the autumn of 1989 with the known shareholders. In the new year of 1990, the "ANDENNA" was followed by a well-known shareholder composition. The signature of this first test licence was issued in September 1989 by the subsequent President of the Republic of Kostis Stefanopoulos. He had said from this here the Stepping of the House: "My fellow Members, whatever you do in this article, as well as modifying it, which you do not dare, as well as claim as an assent, which you will not claim, the Government will grant permissions. There is only one way to intervene in this House and not to grant authorisations to people who are dangerous, to vote in favour of the provision whereby issuers are prohibited from obtaining licences." And he added: "I don't even have class disputes with them. None. With some of them I am happy to exchange and greet." I'm also very happy to trade with them and greet them. Stefanopoulou, however, little moved. The TV party began with the operation of the two channels in a full institutional vacuum and three years later, on the government, Mr Mitsotakis, seven special licences were issued directly. The end of the same year, on the Government of Andreas Papandreou, five more licences were issued, two national permits and three regional permits. The first tender effort to grant normal licences was undertaken in 1997 by Dimitris Reppa, with the addition of a hundred and seventeen licences for television stations, of which six national dimensions, fifty-three regional and fifty-eight local. The numbers refer to a television market of at least American sizes with supply and demand to break all the records. Ultimately a hundred sixty files were filed, left in drawers for five years. In 2002 the competition was simply declared barren by the then Minister of Press Christos Protopas and all channels continued to operate normally without any problem. At some point the main shareholder, who was defeated by a state, came to the well-known Rusopoulos law for the concentration of SMEs, the licensing of electronic media and the transition to the digital era. At the same time, the road to the gifts of the digital age, which were sealed by the monopoly of DIGEA, was also opened. Mr. Minister, believe me, you managed years ago to agree with the Canadians on a matter, that the bill you're asking us to vote on is a bill without study and planning. By the end of October 2015, we have been called under the urgency procedure to alleviate the incompatibility that has been left behind by the previous governments for twenty-six years. The Prime Minister and the Minister responsible before they even won the elections in January were given priority on their agenda the bill we are debating today. However, it took more than ten months to bring it to the House as an emergency. In this new bill, the new government is supposed to hit the big publishers and the complexion. In fact, however, he attempts to manipulate the channels and grinds butter on the bread of the few major canal rulers. SYRIZA - ANEL co-government is urgent to throw the ball into the platform and invented this way to disorientate the citizens from the barbaric measures that come with the vote and the implementation of a hard third memorandum. At the same time, it is obvious that the aim of the Minister is to become the absolute regulator of the new situation, since he will finally decide on the number of licences and, indeed, on a zero basis, ignoring an already shaped reality. I imagine, Minister, that you know that there are eight private channels in our country today, including ERT. You're saying you still haven't decided how many permits you're going to give. I'm sure you'll give five to eight. Therefore, even if those who are licensed remain interested and offer a higher price to auctions, you say that you will get from five to eight and, if necessary, close from one to three channels. On the other hand, and in case someone else wants to enter the game, someone outside the Greek area will also have the opportunity to enter. Only the five, however, will you, the ones that will give more. So, in essence, we do not care about growth, we do not care about investment, the fight against unemployment, but how these instruments will be as few as possible so that we can handle them more easily. Minister, the Centro Association has never been a favourite child of big-time and big-scale newspaper owners. Never! Trust me. Not at all. And yet, who can challenge through here that those canalarchs who exist today have invested many millions in logistics, building facilities and human resources? What's gonna happen? Do you intend that, for example, Mr. Vardinoyannis, Mr. Kontomenas, Mr. Alafuzos, do not conform, cast black and bring the MATs? What are you going to tell the workers of these channels, who will be fired, because the owner of the instrument that they were working on made a smaller offer in the auction and did not get one of the five permits you intend to give? What are you going to tell them? Despite the tsunami of redundancies and cuts, which have been made in this area, when justified and unacceptably, the channels currently in existence employ thousands of workers from journalists, technicians and administrative staff. So what are you going to do with this bill? You want to turn it off? You want to leave them on the road? Really, Minister, after the vote on this bill, will you implement it? In the meantime, you have such a rush to become a successor to former media ministers, who have forgotten that the signal is no longer proportional, but digital. I mean that there is now plenty of space available for frequencies that can be licensed to all those entrepreneurs who want to operate legally and under a specific framework and not just to some. As Mrs Canellell said in committee, this bill provides for the networking of regional channels. In other words, a businessman may, with this bill, buy ten regional permits and without inhibiting one's right to network, so he will eventually have a pan-Hellenic scope without the necessary permission. It has been submitted to you - and we have not even seen it - by Mr Loverdos' request for the communication of correspondence between the Government and the European Commission. What is this request in what phase? Do you know, Minister, that with the current bill a historic channel of the city I represent, of Thessaloniki, the TV - 100 will soon not be entitled to broadcast? Article 1 states that the authorisation procedure is carried out by the PSE. It is an instrument that operates out of constitutional boundaries today, without a president, with four of the seven members and half of the scientific associates from those for its proper functioning. In practical terms, we risk, even if we decide to do something, being declared illegal, because of the composition of the PSE. Even so, his comments on the draft law are of interest since he declares that he is unauthorised for a number of tasks. For example, Article 13 confers on the PSE the responsibility of identifying a licence auction procedure, and this answers unauthorised and without such experience. In his detailed remarks a little bit, Minister, he describes you as out of place and time. There is talk of a lack of any study on the subject. It says that you are ignoring European directives and that you are proposing regulations which will soon lead to the same deadlocks and problems that exist on analogue television and thus to the non-regulation of the market. You do not take into account the dividing line between national and regional stations. It is wrong for both of them to be placed in the same set of arrangements. There is no matching of sizes, capabilities, pursuits and interests. You have a tender logic, where the only selection criterion is money auctioning, without assessing anything else and, above all, the adequacy and experience of the contractor, which favours the emergence in the area of strong economic agents with other aims, but also national problems, through the management of the channels of the mainland and island border. This amount must be gradually covered, at least on regional channels, so that people can give the amount and participate in this tender. I fear the provisions of Articles 22 and 43. I reserve my time at this stage and will do so on Saturday on the issue of the establishment of the National Communication Policy Council. I am very afraid that your aim is to create an army of journalists, without the necessary equipment and knowledge and without any control, who will exercise a parallel foreign policy. We call for a transparent, reliable, functional, objective and fair system of assessment of combined criteria. To be multi-participation, to enter all actors and to cover all those watching and exposing themselves in the media. The specific characteristics and differentiations between the regions of the country must be taken into account. This concerns in particular the level of the start-up, the minimum paid-up capital and the own funds, as well as the necessary staff. It is necessary to clarify the procedure to be followed when the time of authorisations expires. Is the licence granted renewed or reopened? In any event, the express provision of the early warning obligation is required. It must be ensured that television stations in the border regions are purely Greek, which is what the existing regional TV stations in these areas ensure. The Centro Association's proposal is that there should be a serious consultation and that we agree under what conditions we want the channels to operate. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, say it in simple words: Frequency is, businessmen do not exist. Young businessmen think there will be? Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed necessary to regulate as soon as possible the rules of the game for the television scene, since they are frankly discussed, respecting the independence, freedom and pluralism of the press, with a plan for development for present and future investors, ensuring workers, but above all with respect to the public, the ordinary citizens. We owe them this after twenty-six years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u227	Thank you. Before we move to the next speakers, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three teachers attending from the 2nd High Tower. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Eleni Aylonitos has the floor for seven minutes, which will be the first speaker in the first place by the Members. A further six MPs will follow to complete the circle of one MP from each party, and then the Minister of State, Mr Papapas, has called for the floor. Here, Mrs. Alonitou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law ‘Authorising the contents of digital television broadcast free of charge’, etc. is the first law we are discussing in this House on the great issue of cartels in Greece. You know, in our country there's a tendency, all the economic activities of some size and importance are evolving in cartel. Even political representation in our country had been established in a cartel, a political cartel to safeguard and protect the rest of the cartels. In this transformation of a cartel in the economic and political life of our country, a key role has been played by the media cartel, and especially free television. Like all cartels, he tries to justify his existence with the tale of providing high quality products and services, which he can't offer whoever does not belong to the cartel. Especially the political cartel sells modernisation, sells reforms, sells Europeanism. So the main argument we have heard in the parliamentary committees and which we are hearing today in plenary is this: in what European country is this happening? I shall therefore ask, in my turn, the colleagues of the parties bringing this argument: ladies and gentlemen, in which European country do they operate television channels for twenty-five years without permission? In which European country is the sole and monopoly network provider, the ‘DIGEA’, owned by the content providers? To no one, ladies and gentlemen, except Greece. Wasn't that all these years bothering you? Why did you not solve it when you ruled for so many years and tolerated it for twenty-five years? Did this happen to you? Was it a modern situation? Was it a reformed situation? Was it a European situation? But now that the public asset of frequencies is given by the European method of the auction, do you have a problem? Now that you're breaking the monopoly of a single provider you're disturbing? However, it was heard by some that the provisions of the bill match the technological data of the analogue signal that lifts a few channels, but not the digital one that lifts a lot. Let us be precise, ladies and gentlemen, when we legislate. The digital system raises more channels than analogue. But he doesn't lift up indefinitely. There's no digital signal for anyone who wants to broadcast a TV program. The number of terrestrial emission channels remains limited. So when a public good, such as digital frequencies, is not enough for everyone, you know, in Europe it is licensed after a public tender. So that's what we're doing today. I note, of course, that there is no corresponding restriction on satellite and Internet television, since there is no use of a rare public good, so there is no natural oligopolistic situation in which there is a need for regulation. We are still breaking the 'DIGEA' monopoly with the creation of a second network provider by ERT. Thus, a licensed private channel will have to choose between two network providers. We're freening the market. And that bothers you? But you are standing up to the fact that the law provides for a reduction in the number of licences, by the Minister's decision. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Now, tell me exactly where you disagree? To limit the number of licences or to the government's decision? You understand, of course, that "Decision of the Minister" means "Decision of the Government". Who would like to make that decision if not the elected government which has the confidence of Parliament? Would you like the decision to take it again, a cartel, which only accounts for itself? But let us see why the government needs to set the number of ground broadcasting permits? The terrestrial broadcasting channels provide information and entertainment to everyone, without any charge, working with an economic model based on advertising. You know, they're not intended to provide lobbying services in business interests. Public frequencies are not available to obtain privileged access to public works and public procurement through them. It must therefore be financially self-sufficient, viable companies from the exercise of their basic and unique economic activity, which is to provide free information and entertainment. It has been found that this is not the case in Greece. We have TV channels in debt, which continue to operate with loans from banks, which would never borrow another private company with such financial information. What business are these channels doing and what exactly do the banks fund? Ladies and gentlemen, this bare landscape is coming to clear up today's bill. It is very modern, extremely reformative and extremely European, in the sense that these words have either Paris or Vienna. So those of you who are concerned about Europeanness come to vote on the bill in principle and contribute to improving it with your proposals on the basis of Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an expression of the arrogance and absoluteness of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. After the unbelievable statements of yesterday, Phile, on which you should be ashamed and ashamed, after the deadlock and the recurring Stathaki that have to do with red loans, after the unprecedented decision taken by the Ministerial Council on Savvaidou - an unprecedented decision - we may have made similar mistakes in the past, but you are sure that you have come to change them, so that we can be honest and know what we say - today you are bringing a bill that makes Mr Pappa an egg of the media. That's what you're doing. No transparency, no cartel beats or anything. You are fragmenting the television scenery so that one to one of the canalarchs can go through the table of the blackmail negotiations and do them what you want. You were not inclined for any transparency, because if you were burning for transparency, you would have laid conditions and conditions for transparency, and you would have been transparent in discussing this bill. What did you tell us? You told us that you would bring the correspondence that comes with the European Commission. Where is he? Have you read the report of the Scientific Council of the Parliament, or is it also in the cartels? Did you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u231	What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u232	Did you read the remarks in it? These are very serious observations, such as the fact that you cannot only have a Minister to determine the number of licences.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u233	Does it say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u234	You opened all the fronts of opacity...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u235	We have it in front of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u236	...until you give the right, canal owner in Greece to be a company that negotiates on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange, without having to name shares. That's what you're doing. Zimbabwe shall be a member of the OECD. All this, ladies and gentlemen, dress it up with his veil that the "first time left" came to clean the scenery, while all the others were compromised. Who was compromised? The New Democracy, which was the only party that never had a party instrument in the press? You had the "SGEI", the PASOK, the "RIZOSOPAT" KKE. When did New Democracy get out as a newspaper owner? When did he get a license? Some other parties had. Can I remind you of something else? May I remind you that in the 1980s, it was the New Democracy that fought against the ERT, which had become the ERT of the party vessels and the green guards, which any opposition voice was heard by the germans, was fired the next day? May I remind you of Maria Rezan? Let me remind you of Mrs Papandreou's evening calls 'Stop this show because I don't like it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u237	Arvanitis - Katsimi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u238	Please! And who was the news director of the last ERT that closed? The one who so far has been your most transparent supporter of a friendly frequency with a post-night show, editor of your second party and director? Was that the New Democracy's party domination in the middle, or the fact that traditional right-wing publishers were victims of terrorist attacks? Georges Athanasiadis, Momferatos. Didn't we fight for pluralism, when our mayors lifted up the antennas themselves, when we came down on the sidewalk against ERT, the ERT party? Ladies and gentlemen, we have fought for transparency in the media. We gave it to the main shareholder. It then impacted the European Commission. Today you are fighting no battle. What you give is a prime minister's and ministerial right. The first time Minister acquires such qualities, abilities and responsibilities. First time! We are going back to the era of the absolute party state, and that is your logic: to check everything, because we cannot satisfy any one, but none of our election commitments. Because we lied to the Greek people about equivalents, for parallel projects, we said what we were lying about about famous negotiations, and now, around the corner. All we can do is create temporary rivals through the walls just to save ourselves. And what are the channels? The channels that have manned political figures like Mr. Varoufakis, who out of nowhere made him a star? Have you ever been blocked out? Just so we know what we're talking about. I remember armies from the executives who are currently in the government headquarters, without any political status, showing up in the morning bars every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u239	Which government shut down ERT?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u240	Please, now that you're going to have transparency lessons for us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u241	Are you talking about another country?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u242	So be modest and in the way you conduct yourself in your criticism. And you'll hear it! From now on you're accountable! You're accountable for what you're bringing and what you're doing. You want to make a new blackmail? Make him, see where he's going out. Finally, I would like to mention, Mr President, that this is a multi-brand plan, because it concerns not only the channels, but also the creation of a new Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Through the restructuring of the press offices, you are creating positions of parties that will have the foreign policy. This is not even Dimitris Maroudas of the 1980s would have imagined doing on 'drugs'. At every embassy, in every press office you put a journalist - it will obviously be by your friendly means - who will make political contacts on behalf of the country, without being subject to the control of the Greek embassy. In fact, what is still an impression is that this bill, although it deals so much with our foreign presence, does not have the signature of the Foreign Minister. He doesn't even know what you're bringing here, and of course, he couldn't agree. You are building a board of national communications policy on the interior as well - only for propaganda, I imagine - and abroad, replacing embassies. I think this bill shows exactly your real mood and is the mood to establish a communal hostage, just because you know that very quickly these winds you have sown will reap them like storms, societal storms of your political decay. That is why we will be voting against the bill and we will be in favour of your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u243	Thank you. Please, Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u244	Today's subject is very interesting and gives us the opportunity at last to talk about Greece's involvement and indeed to talk about names. Because until now there has been a fear in the political system in general of saying names, as if an invisible hand would come and put pepper on your mouth, if you say who these intertwiners are at last. It was wined by Mr. Katrugalos that "we will hit the complex" and he says for months, but only the clashes do not strike with these bills, which make the complex even stronger in Greece. Previously, the spokesman of the New Democracy spokesman to the former director of ERT, who is, of course, Aimilios Liatsos and who is now in "KONTRA", the channel of Kouris, which is indeed the private media of SYRIZA. But I would like to mention a detail. What does ERT have on Liatsu, on New Democracy, on today's ERT, where is Chucknis, if I'm not mistaken, director? The public is one, that they both rule out Golden Dawn in both cases. In fact, the previous ERT had called us, in the two years it worked, once. One Saturday morning they had invited me as the party's spokesman and it became a revolution after and they took out all the parties announcements "Why did you call for 20 minutes on Golden Dawn?" So in the new ERT, we haven't even been invited for half a second. They have called all the "cuts" - ANDARSYA, such representatives I saw, nonexistent and unlikely - and they have not even called for a second spokesman of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. The Minister is not here, he is another representative of the government, and I denounce it, and I finally demand that you take a position. You can't put the Major in front or any necklace coming here telling us fairy tales and mocking us. Because the Major had told me personally that "I can't do anything about your exclusion. They come from above them." So to come here, the Minister responsible, to come here and say, "I have commanded that Golden Dawn be ruled out." With you, happy, you're government, anti-democratic functions, anti-constitutional functions. But don't hide behind the Major and Chakni or anyone else. You should say this in public and say to the voters and fans of the Golden Dawn not to pay even half of the euro again as a fee for public television, which is all but public today. As far as Members are concerned, the ridiculous excuse has been heard, the stupid one - I beg your pardon - is an excuse for 'no others'. And what happened when the others don't come? Let's go alone and talk. There is an opinion from the National Broadcasting Council on the pre-election period - which the law imposed on us there, and that is why we have been given the slightest step - according to which, when the MPs of the other parties are not here - no problem - they will be brought out by the Members of the Golden Dawn and they will be told and taken the time that corresponds to them. This was followed by an election, because the law said so, and the knife was cut on the day after the election, and this disgrace continues until now and the government is responsible for this disgrace. So I say again: let the Minister, Poppa, come here, say "It is my command to the Major" and not put forward, or else take an initiative. But what initiative to take? We would vote, said our special speaker, this bill. We'd vote on three terms. Firstly, to guarantee the equal visibility of the political parties, as defined by popular sovereignty. We are the third party and we demand that all the media show us as the third party. That is what democracy, the Constitution, pluralism, all these conditions that you have humiliated them and it is now impossible to use them in here, mocking people. But because I spoke about the complexity and the names that we must finally say, another condition set by the Golden Dawn and that should exist in this bill, but there is no, because you are also the bodies of the interlocutory, it would be that there should be the incompatibility of contractors and canalarch. It is not possible for Bobolas - who, through the "CAKORA" - to take all the public works and collaps them fatally, because it is intertwined with power - to have a channel and to have a "first track" previously among the neo-democrats and the populist MPs, today the Syrian MPs and precisely because of this projection to have public works and to be preferred to competitions and to finance them even by the NSRP and take millions. So incompatible, contractor, canalarch. You don't, because you're interacting bodies too. Of course, the third prerequisite - but only a Golden Dawn government can impose these legally binding measures - is the denomination of shares. Today, "TELETYPOS S.A." I am once again going to the 'MEGA', to the others and to Bardinoyannis, who is both in the 'MEGA' and in the 'Afghanias', I will go to all - who are today and will be with your bill, the same will look like the 'BENBAS', the 'HSBC' of Switzerland - the 'Lagard list' - the 'GS Bank', the 'MOONGOLD', the 'BALTAZI', the 'PODLASS', the 'OALTON', the 'BENBAY', the 'SARAN HOLDINGS S.A.', the 'PRIME APPLICATIONS' and a bunch of such offshore companies. What's that? This is Pseudos, Bobolas, Vardinoyannis. These are behind these interconnected offshore companies, like the company sold by the KKE, "902", and became the EPSILON channel, which is the well-known Vryonis factor. But these names are not said in the House, and that is why the conflict will continue. In Greece, unfortunately, neither a state exists a constitution nor a competent authority. Because you mention the PSE, I have here to deposit a volume. This volume is not "Papyros - Larous". It is the complaints of the Golden Dawn to the National Broadcasting Council from the day SYRIZA took over. For these complaints concerning a flagrant violation of constitutional legitimacy and pluralism, nothing has happened at all. I shall therefore present them to the Minister, in his seat, because the Minister is absent. Here, please, look at them. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kassidiaris, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because in Greece at the moment there are neither independent authorities nor a constitution. There's Bobolas, there's Psykris, there's Alfouzos, there's Vardinoyannis, there's Sunday, there's Kontomenis, those who control the system of power, through the intertwined channels, and you're not going to do anything at all. Because you're asking for proposals, what should you do? I will close my speech with the case of the'seafoods' that they took from all the systemic banks. How did the MEGA get a new EUR 98 million loan? Do you have any idea? I say this because you are talking about 8,000,000 euros, which they must give to get the frequency. We are going to say 'Paris' in that we do not say 'no' in everything. However, the 8,000 euros you ask to get from "MEGA", that is to say from "TLETTYPOS S.A.", is nothing, because it has received 98,000 euros of the "MEGA", while it has a total of 150,000,000 euros of the sea. Do you know how he got them? He didn't take it because he's a profitable business, because I go as a private person and ask for money from the bank, they'll ask me for evidence of the profitability of my business. The "MEGA", therefore, put some glue on a MORE STEPHENS company from abroad to cost its film shop. They cost the episode of "the smurfs" that MEGA has in its film - notice, I don't make sense - 1,100,000 euros, and now it takes EUR 98,000,000 euros, and the public pays it through the memorandum and the recapitalisation of the banks. So in these disgraces, which have been made in Greece, there will be no hindrances. Your businessman canalarch, Kouris, in his case 'ALTER', in the same way, had cost EUR 400,000,000 from the Alter film. And they're cleaning everything up now. "ALTER" showed some films with Stathis Psaltis, if you remember, that cost 400,000,000 euros. And I am talking about your own canalarch, interacting with you, and indeed, as the previous speaker said, Liatsos went to Kuris and today the KONTRA channel is the private channel of SYRIZA. In the face of this whole system, therefore, the Golden Dawn is standing. That's why they fought us. That is why we continue to see 'Greeks' in the dilemma. For some months in 2013, all day and every day the channels lied against the Golden Dawn. They couldn't do anything. But they did and continue to fight us, because they know that we are the only ones who can end them and impose legitimacy on Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Cassidy. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our resignation in the previous bill has also made a constructive opposition - an article, proposing a great deal that could change, be in the right direction and be voted on by us, because I really think that we all want to come up with a bill that will resolve this gorilla link with radio frequencies. Minister, we know that someone will change and testify. So far you haven't testified. I hope you really show that interest. Otherwise, as I and our rapporteur and other colleagues in the parliamentary group in the committee have told you, at the end of the day, if this is not the case with the National Broadcasting Council, there will be a large label which says: 'Do you want it to be a ruler? Go to Herodou Attikos 19, information Mr. Nikos Pappas.’ I hope - and I want to believe you will - that you do not end up with this, but do all the necessary changes and we are here to support them. However, I think what we have been described lately is that neither the citizens nor us have memory. I would like to say to you, Minister, that in the last five years and in the previous years, the antimony front - we have been wrong for you many times - you have not created it yourself. You created it with these channels. From morning to night, along with several journalists - not all - you were there and you lifted the flag of the antimony race. All your stars, i.e. Katrugalos, Varoufakis, Chrysanogonos, etc., are born - nourishment of the channels. In fact, I want you to remember that these big channels were stopping their programme to broadcast from Syntagma Square and the indignant discussions where Mr Chakalotos, the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, Mr Kazakakis and Mr Katrugalos were talking about how pensions would not be cut. And because these have "near legs", Mr. Katrugalos, whom you see speaking and not thinking about what he has said in the past, he will be judged, because his contradictions cost more. He was paid as a lawyer from the various funds to give various opinions and cancels them by law now. Do you want me to tell you something, Minister? The most favourite child - and you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - was Mr Tsipras. Do you know who brought Mr. Tsipras up when most of the SYRIZA Members did not know him today when he was the first candidate mayor in Athens? A satirical show that called him and begged him and supported him and supported him, and even with viewing numbers that surpass all expectations. Do you forget about this? Do you forget that these canals, these channels helped you get here today? Ladies and gentlemen, we have the courage today to recognise mistakes and omissions in previous years and to table concrete proposals. You will allow me to say something else that I forgot, listening to the previous speaker. Do you remember the channels that cared for the neo-nazis when they were hitting and struggling some people? So, randomly, the Nazi artifacts were gnawed? Do you remember how they behaved and with how anxious they were talking in the morning shows about the good kids who in Saint Panteleimon beat the immigrants and take the grandmothers to get money from the banks? They ended up taking political responsibility for the death of Paul Bryssa. So, in these channels and the canals, we want there to be rules. But you do not want rules, Minister. You want to be the people to whom they will come begging, negotiating, trading - not economic, under no circumstances - support for the next period. Let me just say one last thing. In recent years, when something was written about a Minister, SYRIZA's colleagues and other parties brought the matter to Parliament and asked for an inquiry into this matter. Yesterday there was a complaint from a Member of Parliament, Minister. There was a complaint from Mr. Theocharis about Mr. Alexis Flavouraris' company, that in her funds there was black money. I ask you: will you send the IMO, or will you expect to put one of your own that ensures the final conclusion? I ask you: will you send the IMO, to see if what a Member of Parliament has said to the Greek Parliament from the Step is true or lies? I ask you, I invite you and I invite you to ask the ILO to clarify the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr Constantinople. Mrs. Canelley has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if there is someone here - sixty years old, I am - who could make a television show out of this Chamber and in a way that doesn't get it and no one should ever get it, I think the lot is falling on me after forty-three years! I'm not stuck, my professional status is intertwined with journalism and television.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u249	Accepted!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u250	They've heard and heard great things. And if we keep the debate on something that you say has been suffering for 50 years and a landscape is to be built for the next 50 years, I would say that we are trapped in the television evaluation of the transition of such a debate. I will try to be as clear as possible. If you tell anyone in free market conditions, whose majority of people you are empathetic and enthusiastic, other than Lacekimoni - KKE - you will try to lay rules on the free market, so that it is not a loose market, and start who calls who does not allow and who does not allow, in the country that cannot decide where to put S -300 years now - it has made an investment, it took them a time and we didn't know where to put them - in the country still talking about 'green lines' in Nicosia, about fair and sustainable solutions to long-term problems that the country has, you want to tell me that you are going to demarcate now, here, with this bill of distribution of what? Recommendation one. Get out under the '89 Act, from which the media are going until the moment we speak your own legislation, the privatization of the public good. Because under the '89 law and all the media laws - I do not believe in transparency, and that is why I do not talk to you, since the opaques usually talk about transparency - so at the moment, you are trying to run a route on an airstrip that does not belong to you, as it has never belonged to anyone. Are you talking about a public good and going with money, with licenses, with number, by ordering the market, with references to loans, broadcasts, journalists, a report on persons, things and situations - such as who is a partner of whom, and where - I am, allegedly, to sanctify what? Who? Capitalism? That's natural. It's a genius! What are you trying to do? Is it a public good? If it's a public good, then you have private CECE. In the spirit of the '89s the concept based on the article of the Constitution that anyone involved in information is a user and manager of a public good. Now that's what you're going to do and you're going to invoice it. Some will talk about "Smurfs" and others will talk about something else. Is that possible? What kind of public good are you talking about? For example, the news is an option. Option! It's a choice what news you'll choose to say. Will you intervene in this on the basis of the number of licences? Oh, no! What can you do? A news channel, how many news cards should it have on the day? Are you going to say that? Oh, no! I told you to call EITA, the technicians, so you know! Based on the OECD, a pan-Hellenic or non-Hellenic-regional-range news channel, when you talk about information, will it be done by which professionals? And well, at the level of journalists, you can define this because they have unions. At the level of techniques and at the time of technology, with how many selfies can you make news reports? With how much, so-called, genuine and spontaneous folk material that you collect online and doesn't cost anything? Frago doesn't cost. No, no, no, no, no, Most people call and sell it online. How many viral do you want to make? This will be because you will decide how many permits you will give and will invoice the five permits you give? Can private television of all kinds and form be a public good and be on equal terms to NERIT? If it is, I'll tell you what's going on. They'll make money out of a pool briefing. In difficult areas, where it costs, private channels go and get pool information from the ERT. But you're saying you're going to fix it differently. You'll give the distribution, the possibilities for the ground stations, the ERT has its own. And now you need to compensate the whole public in Greece, which, in order not to change TV, when you could not get the latest-tech televisions - LED, MED, CED, FED, LOW and go by saying - paid two - three decoders per house, where there was a TV. If he now wants to see ERT, soon after you go ahead, he'll take other decoders and see the ERT and the Parliament's channel with a decoder. So, all of these people, you're gonna pay them back? I hear something about pluralism and pluralism. So, do you want me to give you - in the fifteen years that I have in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency - the decisions of the Broadcasting Council on the non-equivalent promotion of channels? You want to see the parties? Do you want to see the disproportionate when SYRIZA had 4.5% and had 15% and 20% view and the KKE always the corresponding to what was cut about 20% below? This can be the case in an election period. Why can it apply in an election period and is being discussed in the election period? Because in the pre-election period it is invoiced. And because it's invoiced, did anyone ever tell you that in the Prime time the election spot is four times more expensive than advertising? Did anyone ever tell you how the advertisement is being invoiced? Have you ever remembered how the morning TV was created in Greece? Do you know what time the geostrategic exploitation of television began? From the basic option that, in passing from black to colored - late in the 1970s, early in the 1980s - it was a strategic political choice whether we would go to the French axis or the German axis, whether we would take SECAM or take PAL. At the time we also took Mirage, we also took SECam. Then the technology went ahead. Now we don't have SECAM and PAL! What standards do you have? German standards? Do you think with this bill you'll make what? An ARTE, which will have... [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, please, I would like half a minute not to ring the bell, because it is being televisionally incomplete. It's transmitting. When it's transmitted live, you know very well that it has noise. The debate is very intense. When it's video, we're all cool. That's live. I prefer the conversation and the picture in here. You can't take care of the market like this. You can't auction things. You must have traveled sometime. You're talking about communication. Modern communication has another form. The digital signal can stop it a rain curtain like today. However, when you enter mobile telephony - similar to that, digital signal - and you go from Germany to France and cross those borders that are - you know that the Members who travel very often to Strasbourg - suddenly jack, when you go through it, you change the provider. However, if you go to the City Hall of Mytilini, it is most likely that the "TÜRKSAT" will come to you. What does that mean? That he co-manages telecommunications? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There's a future ahead. That would be innovative, see what the country's position is. We're not on a satellite, other countries across the border are. So you don't have a satellite signal. We are a country that once had YENED. How did YENED happen? It's done in Israeli standards. Is the Israeli how it was because she didn't have the chance? On a boat up and down. Currently in international waters there may be a digital provider. What are you going to do to him? You're going to sink him? He's going upstairs. Could be a plane, AWACS, going upstairs, unmanned, please. Digital supplier. What are you gonna do? At one time, in the early years of modernization, he was asked an immortal question - he is dead man, I do not want to mention names - a PASOK MP and he answered. He didn't know. They said something about insert, and he said "let's buy". Those who know TV, they know what insert is. The insert is a vaccine plan that comes in. The man was talking about it, since they know it on TV, let's buy it. That's what you reminded me of now. And they told him, you know, about the signal, that is about the EBU. Have you read the EBU statutes, that European integration begins with the Eurovision competition and the unification of news reports? It is the founding act of Eurovision, back in the 1950s, when I was born sixty years ago! This is therefore a specific European policy with interests. When you travel from Germany to France, the signal changes. When you travel from here to Skopje, does it change? And to what extent does it change? Who has the most powerful transmitter? Who has the most powerful receiver? When you tell me that you will invoice, will you invoice with what? I'm going to stand by the workers. I'll shut up if I don't. I told you about the press offices. If you do not, for example, put 40% technicians and 60% of the remaining staff, you will have a picture of the highest quality, regardless of content. It's not going to be the contents with the "Smurfs", the Golden Dawn, whoever it is! It doesn't matter. The aesthetics of the image and the image itself are language itself and vocabulary. He'll build aesthetics, standards, structure, way of thinking. So you'll have amateur images, which will be forged, because they're cheap. Big Brother's rights are a Dutch invention, did you know? You can play nothing from "Big Brother", unless you pay rights to the Dutch. So is the idea of a sirial. You know where the rings are most of the time, don't you? In the advertising companies, to make the target group to which they are addressed and then the advertising that connects things like this comes. How are you gonna do that? Costing the licenses? But the licenses will cost them to the goodwill that the "MEGA", "ANDENNA", "STAR", "KONTRA", "TRT", my shoe and my sock. We're gonna start talking regional channels, aren't we? ‘TV PERSONAS’, ‘ThASSOS TV’. What are you gonna do? You're going to credit. Do it. I don't care. You want to redeem the business market.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u251	Mrs. Canelle, please get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u252	I'm done. Let's get to the workers. What about the employees of the existing channels? Will they disappear? Because, based on this bill, every smart businessman breaks down the present, goes bankrupt, builds a new company and goes down. Listen to me. There's no minimum. If it is not the posts and does not protect the natural persons and the working relationships they have,'goodbye, my glarenza'! If you don't know the expression "good-bye, my Glarenza", let me clarify it. My "good-bye, glarenza" is a very specific thing. Those who came out of Zakynthos in Kyllini across the street, when they left Kyllini, called Glarentza, said "my adio Glarentza" and weeped at the time when communications and maritime communications were much less. This is my "good-bye, Glarenza". I'm not saying anything terrible. To clarify it for the Minutes tomorrow morning. Workers have rights. Let me tell you why you can't do it? Because you're using the OECD toolbox. So that you don't even have amateur television, since you don't even have a provision that says 'Amateur plan', no, you can't have it, because you can only build four hundred channels with amateurs who have no idea. And how will he do that? With the OECD toolbox. You know that in the previous memorandum, in its previous implementing memorandum - your memorandum is a follow-up to the previous one - in the OECD toolbox with one word the specialities and studies of all TV techniques, recognised by the Greek state, have been abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u253	Mrs. Canelle, please get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u254	I shall conclude, Mr President. How are you gonna do that? I am talking about a number of workers, I am talking about the protection of workers' rights, fundamental things, which are not about the area of bad businessmen with hostages, who must be punished for their choice. Because private channels were made by people who worked years in the state channels and learned their heads in the cassidy, with a state contribution. So, today, if you want to sit down and talk, you have to explain why you brought it in the form of an emergency and don't listen to hypocrisy here to friends of the European Union about contractors. Three-quarters of even left newspapers in France are purchased by contractors. And canalarchs are contractors of all kinds and form! And Berlusconi and the Berlusconi contractor were! So it's not about contractors, it's about capitalists and money. The public good can be satisfied on the basis of technology without you. When you decide to intervene, you cannot use the consent of the world as an alibi, the urgency of the matter. Here comes the French, we've chosen SECAM, they have a model, I don't know what Mr. Holland's businesspeople are bringing with them on television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. I would ask the next speaker and the next speakers to respect time, because respect for time is, in fact, respect for other fellow speakers. Because when we break time, some will not speak and some will be confined to speaking. Therefore, the request to limit time. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the political topicality these days is rich and in addition to being rich, it is a bit hard, not only for the Greek people, but also for the government itself, as we are among the two implementing bills that we all know have many and difficult arrangements. We both have two major discussions to develop at all levels these days. One concerns VAT on education, which I can only use the term 'communication debacle' for the government, and the last unfortunate statements from many aspects. The other very long debate on the subject these days is the insurance policy, which reforms in a different way in the morning and in a different way in the media, Mr. Katrugalos, the Minister responsible, on a common basis, in any case, for cutting pensions and extending working hours. So while we are going to trouble - not to say from defeat to defeat - and to cut it off - because this will be the environment for at least the next few weeks for the government - we have been wedget and urgently the long-awaited and long-discussed - it is the truth - the law on the media and the reform of the media, in reality there is nothing urgent, and then I will say why this procedure is not at all urgent. Incidentally, the last law passed by this Parliament under normal procedure is n. Adopted by the Commission on 13 June. And I think it's one of two or three laws that SYRIZA's governments voted with normal procedure. Otherwise, as a matter of urgency, an act of legislation, as a matter of urgency to anything other than normal processes. So I think the law has urgently entered, as it is easy to communicate: SYRIZA against the barons of communication. Very easy. It is such deception - and it is not unfair - in the popular consciousness of the media and their opposing operation, especially to your voters, since we have recently learned that your voters are a particular category of citizens. The VAT guide to education has learned whether or not it concerns your voters. In any case, however, this is a privileged matter. In the consciousness of the Greeks in general, the media are discredited. So an attack, the opposition to it, is in advance a communication cause. So we will have the debate today on this tomorrow, and we will have a little spectacle, in French, on Mr Holland's very important visit to Greece, on Saturday we will again discuss the media, where we will obviously raise the tons as much as possible and this week too. The Greek government had no strategy in negotiating, Mr. Juncker said recently. We're beginning to understand something. I said before that it is purely communication for the simple reason that there is no possibility of directly applying the law. As long as the National Broadcasting Council is in the air, it is not in a legitimate function, there is no possibility of any of the things provided for in the law, no tender can be made in any way. The Minister admits it indirectly, the Council of State says so in a number of decisions. So it's what we used to call TASA, Regular Operations Without Army, to have to say, basically, paper exercises. Let us say, in order to forget HPAI, which is landed in most households these days, to forget pensions, to forget VAT in education. However, the issue of SMEs also has a lot of substance and even a lot of substance. We will vote 'yes' with a cold heart. And I say this from the outset that we will vote 'yes' at the start of the bill, because we want to demonstrate by works, by means of actions the need to regulate and reform an area which is deeply problematic in the way it works at the moment. Unfortunately, however, the bill is not what we would like to see. It's not the bill we'd expect from a left-wing government. That is why we are not going to vote on the articles in question. We will vote on some in the second part, such as setting up a second provider from the ERT. Questions are specific. Is that a better law? Does it preserve freedom of speech better? Because that is the object, ladies and gentlemen. It's not the interests, it's not about avengeing people or rewarding others. It is the guarantee of freedom of speech in the political scene and in public opinion. Is it enough to replace the oligarchs than others to guarantee freedom of speech? Is something going to change the fact that X is going to leave and that X will come to his place to do exactly what the previous guy did? Does this procedure, the new law, cut the politicians off from the publishers? He's barricaded? Is it improving transparency? By focusing on one person, without any commitments, and without the need to justify the decision and signature by the Minister of State, by the Ministerial Council, by the ERR even, which could give a regulatory opinion, the entire bazaar is obviously going through - let me express it - in a particular cycle. Someone in particular, a man, the best possible, undertakes to define the media landscape for the next ten years. I think that is a problematic provision. Does it perhaps prevent what we have seen and is problematic, too, the creation of oligopolists or monopolies in the media? No denomination of the shares and the transparency of the shareholders are at all clear and, above all, the right to participate in groups or entrepreneurs in more than one instrument is not excluded. In fact, someone with the limitations of the old law of 2007, if I remember correctly, can have up to 30% or 35% on a case-by-case basis of all the means available to the country. All the means, five pan-Hellenic and forty-five locally, can in theory have the same shareholder, a large shareholder. There's no limit. In the next minute I would like to talk about regionalism, which is a completely different world, which is badly balanced by this bill with the pan-Hellenic range and is poorly balanced, because if the conflict is a serious argument in the central political scene, business and activity in small societies are a completely different thing and a very difficult thing for local media, as we all know, at this time. They have a completely different way of working in local communities. It needs excellent consideration, as it will cause problems, it will cause unemployed, it will cause great problems with loans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u257	Here you go, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u258	Thank you. The possible bankruptcy of the existing channels - because, obviously, what is unauthorised will go bankrupt - requires particular attention and much more discussion. Let the PSE be well, we have plenty of time until we have a new instrument. Nor can it be only a criterion for the survival of the authorisation of the regional stations to be regarded as the price of the licence. There is a much more complex way to be implemented, taking account of capital, investment, but above all of the knowledge of people who have already been serving the sector for many years. It requires, above all, protection of economic independence - on the basis of the previous one I said - for shareholders everywhere. There is a very great risk of creating virtually unofficial pan-Hellenic chains through the collection of many regional permits. The law doesn't forbid it. He doesn't even make any conditions for it. There is the possibility of creating well-founded subsidiaries of the central media and these are matters that we need to look at in another spirit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen - and I end with this - the landscape of the media also needs regulation and reform. Ensuring freedom of expression and pluralism must be the key guide to this reform. The law opens up the debate, but, unfortunately, it does not go towards more transparency and more democracy, but towards centralisation. We will continue to try to light up the shadows and demand greater transparency and more democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be simple. As an engineer and as a Macedonian, I'll try to be simple. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill places the functioning of the media in order. It is something that society is asking for. We were all done and become daily recipients of our friends, the world outside, who says that at some point a class has to go into this whole TV scenery. Electronic media have confused their role by mediating public opinion and citizens, if you like, becoming means of shaping or propaganda of public opinion. In short, they're directing information as they want. We have all lived up to what was happening in the referendum, which presented the results of the 'populations', and they have said that it was going to become a derby, and the result was anything but a derby: 62% -38%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u261	In the national elections, the same thing has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u262	It has been the same in national as in other Member States. Why? Did I say anything different?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u263	Yeah, you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u264	And at national level, didn't they say it was going to be a derby between the New Democracy and SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u265	Please. No dialogue. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u266	What does that have to do with anything? Are we transmitting them? So they shouldn't transmit?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u267	Was it a derby? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u268	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u269	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u270	What am I saying? I told you what I'm saying. There's got to be some sort of order finally. In any case, Mrs Vulture, I would be worried if our views were matched.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u271	Definitely! So am I. It's self-evident. With your extremist views!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u272	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u273	I am really pleased that we do not have the same views. Anyway, I'm on it. The same happened with the national elections and some of the media fought rabies to stay the Independent Greeks out of the House. They did the same in the January elections. What I would like to say, Minister, is to see what is going to happen with the antenna parks, because in Thessaloniki we have a situation in which a check must be carried out on Chortiatis. I would also like to say that the separation of channels at national and regional level is in agreement, because in some way local channels should also be supported. Furthermore, the charges based on nature, that is, whether they are informationary or entertainment or educational, and that is what we are in agreement with and it should be checked whether their content corresponds to those characters they have taken. We also need to see what will happen with municipal resources, which must also be supported, because it is a way of raising the issues of local, regional and local communities, etc. We've been supporting it, as I told you all along. What I have pointed out to you, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr Lazarides. Mrs. Kerameau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with a point of order. How is it possible to have a sincere and constructive dialogue on such a crucial issue, when the three hundred two-page draft law was posted on the Parliament's website on Monday evening, and we were invited to the committee on Tuesday morning when the procedure envisaged was that of urgency, while the relevant ministers did not tell us in committee about any objective reason to haunt the urgency, how much more so when you say that for nine months this bill is coming? I shall close the procedural procedure and, in fact, I shall concentrate on three points, although, unfortunately, there is much more to be considered. Firstly, the assignment of unjustified and excessive powers to the Minister of State. The powers conferred on the Minister have no criteria, no conditions, no conditions, no control mechanism. Disprove me if I'm wrong. Minister, Mr Pappas, with all due respect to your face, why should you - not you personally, but the Minister of State - decide as the absolute rule the number of licences, the level of the auction, the minimum share capital of the regional channels companies? Why? Tell me one reason why Greece must be differentiated from the rest of Europe, which, on the basis of knowledge, confer all relevant competences on independent authorities or the law. The committee has been told by the relevant ministers that the PSE is not working properly or that it may disagree with this policy, and therefore the powers must be exercised by themselves. Even assuming that this is the case, even if we assume that the PSE is not working, what are you saying? That when an institution has operational difficulties, are we not trying to solve them, but are we simply abolishing competences and transferring them to people of executive power? Secondly, the licensing procedure. As you know, since 2011 Union legislation has imposed the conversion of the transmission signal from analogue to digital. What does that mean? Quite simply that there are no longer frequencies as they used to be, that the emission spectrum is potentially unlimited. So, Mr Ministers, why provide for a limited number of permits? I have not heard one reason why you are introducing the concept of restriction into something that is unlimited. In fact, by mouth of your Parliamentary representative, you prejudge the number of beneficiaries from five to eight. So you are putting arbitrary restrictions, and there is absolutely no reason to have any restriction. Let's get permission as many as possible. Why is that bad? What's bothering us? And it is not provided for in the draft law and no method of determination at a starting price. It is up to the absolute crisis of the ministers, and it will only be a criterion of who will give the most money for the permit. No quality criteria, no appropriate criteria. Thirdly, the provisions concerning the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts, the so-called E.E.T. Mr President-in-Office, this is unfortunately a direct violation of Union law. Why am I saying that? E.T.T. is guaranteed as an independent authority not only by Greek law but by Union law, by Community Directives 21/2002 and 140/2009. These Community Directives lay down the absolute independence of the ECT. What are you doing with this bill? You are hurting the independence of the authority and you are therefore in breach of Union law. But since I always speak with examples, I shall do the same with two brief examples here. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, it is laid down in the draft law that EE.T. It is supervised - they are the words of the law - by the Minister for Transport and Network Infrastructures - Article 17. And not only does it be supervised, ladies and gentlemen, but it is foreseen - listen, as a disciplinary offence, to the violation of every act and decision of the Minister! So where is the independence of the members of the ETF?Huh? Secondly, to date the law of E.T.T. It stated explicitly that the EET. - and I read the law - 'acts independently and does not seek or receive instructions from any other body'. This draft law you have before you what he has done? It has removed the entire phrase. There is no longer the phrase that E.T.T. says. It shall act independently and shall neither seek nor receive instructions from any other body. So tell us, Mr Ministers - Mr Pappas will follow - why is this proposal removed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u276	Higher courts must not listen to it by E.T.T.Huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u277	What does the court have to do with it? You're not a court.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u278	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u279	I'll tell you what this has to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u280	Because you don't want the E.T.T. operate independently and is provided for by Union rules; Mr Spirtzi, Union rules have more formal effect than the laws we are voting on here, whether we want it or not. Unfortunately, however, these examples are only a manifestation of your plan to affect the independent authorities as a whole. The first step of the plan - and I would remind you - was the government's request to resign members of independent authorities, including E.T. But that didn't work. The second step was Mr Katrugalos' attempt, if you remember, to impose an age limit on the active members of the independent authorities. And why was that a problem? Because the independence of these members is shielded precisely by the existence of a term of office. So if you end in the middle of one's term, independence goes. We have fortunately avoided this because we have explained to Mr Katrugalo the responsibility that the government would have for applying such a provision. And now the third step of the government's plan: to affect EU T.T.'s independence. Legislative and make it a nucleus of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Fortunately, you do not only have opposition to this approach to you. You also have the European Commission, which, Ministers, has sent you warning letters on breach of Union law. It is the so-called EU Pilot process. For those who are not lawyers and who do not happen to know her, I am reading you from the European Commission website. It is called, ladies and gentlemen, ‘an infringement procedure and provides that if the Member State in question does not provide satisfactory answers and does not apply a solution to correct alleged infringements of Union law, then reference may be made to the Community court’. I am tabling a copy of the relevant website of the European Commission. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are all called upon to vote on a bill for which the European Commission has warned the Government by letters that it is contrary to Union law and that our country's reference to European courts is threatened. Despite our repeated harassment, the relevant ministers have not yet given us these letters in advance of their confidentiality. The statement of confidentiality invoked by the Ministers is expressly provided for the citizens and not for the Members, and in any case let us be given these letters on a confidential basis. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, do you have a quiet conscience when you vote on this bill, without even having read the key warnings of the European Commission's illegal legislation? We call again on the relevant ministers to give us these letters, as they must do. After all, Mr Ministers, if everything provided for in this draft law is lawful, then what is the reason not to present those letters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u281	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kerameau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u283	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Ministers, will you put forward legislative improvements? Theoretically you should have done that since the beginning of the meeting or yesterday in the committee. We've arrived late this afternoon. When are you going to testify? If you testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u285	Of course, right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u286	When is that? This right now is...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u287	Within just.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u288	We talked about it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Ausgeus, we can't put time on them. They'll testify when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u290	We need to know why there has to be a process. We don't work in the leg. We're not government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u291	Minister Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, I asked for Mr Theocharopoulos to be preceded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u293	Good. Mr Theocharopoulos then has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. I think it will help to have an overall position then on the issues of the Minister of State. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who really believes in the need for a clear, strong and operational institutional framework to define the broadcasting landscape, which will ensure legality, transparency and pluralism, cannot be satisfied either with the current situation or with the legislation that we are discussing today. Anyone who has been publicly and unequivocally in favour of the definitive ending of the long-standing unregulated use of frequencies and the responsible transition of our country to the digital age can only have serious reservations about this bill. The Democratic Reconciliation has been in favour of the creation of a new framework, which ensures legality and transparency in the broadcasting landscape, while respecting the provisions of European legislation and regulations and adapting to modern technological developments. However, the question is whether this draft law highlights these necessary rules on the basis of European reality. The question is whether this bill meets these conditions, so that there are transparency rules, or it will create new problems. From now on we must create clear transparent procedures. Overcoming the suffocating context of the debate of such a critical bill - which, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA Members, you have complained of - but also of not making any real use of the results of the public consultation, the government has brought to the vote a piece of legislation which lays down the licensing procedure without strict conditions which ensures that there is much transparency and multilateralism. Without account being taken of the constant change in the audiovisual landscape in the media and the reality of the market, the bill, with an anachronistic logic, only provides for the licensing of linear audiovisual services, by repeating the provisions governing analogue television and radio at the 1990 time. It is therefore more than necessary to adapt the provisions to new technological developments, as the report of the Competent Independent Authority of the National Broadcasting Council says. Ladies and gentlemen, as President of the Democratic Left and as a new Member of the Democratic Alliance, I would like to point out this. I do not agree with the context of lack of substantive rules and order in the area that exists to date, but I am mainly interested in what we are doing from now on. I'm interested if the rules of transparency are in place. The government cannot respond constantly in terms of the past. We ask: 'Why don't you have a dialogue?' You say, "But it never happened." We ask: 'Why do you not consult, as you should, within Parliament?' The same answer. "Why don't you move on to a new framework, transparent and with an important role for the independent authorities?". “ But the independent authorities and old times... ” and so on. You're giving the same answer. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not moving forward in this way. I'm interested in what happens from now on, from now on. We must no longer legislate manually and fragmentally, without respect for the independent authorities and in such a way as to allow non-transparency. Not to respond constantly to everything in terms of the past. This procedure does not lead anywhere. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, how exactly will transparency be ensured, which you very often invoke? The delegation of powers to the relevant Minister of State does not give a solution. I am talking about the number of licences auctioned, the starting price by category of licences and the minimum amount of capital paid up. That's an argument for the opposite. And we don't. The reports, the Regional Channel Association, the National Broadcasting Council, say them all the reports that have come over the last few years. At least take note of these. In what way, then, does the government intend to place order in the media? Getting the briefing on her measure? These issues must therefore be laid down by binding opinion of the National Radiovision Council, so that there is no possibility of arbitrary treatment of the Minister concerned. This is our clear proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Integration has expressed its opposition to specific provisions that it considers unfair, such as those which undermine the contribution of regional stations to information, entertainment and local development or do not guarantee the protection of the sovereignty of independent authorities from the possibility of arbitrary intervention. Why is it even that the Greek Region's Information Television Association, the small regional stations, is against the new regime that is being created and stressed in their letter that not only dialogue was held, but they did not have simple information in this process? These questions must be answered and answered clearly by giving improvements, which are essential, to all of which we are putting forward. Ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR stated its intention at first to support the bill only if the necessary changes are made clearly, which will be convinced of the sincerity of your intentions. We have asked for specific changes and we expect concrete responses concerning: First, the adaptation of the provisions of the bill in the framework of the relevant Independent Authority, the National Broadcasting Council, so that there is no possibility of arbitraryization of the respective Minister for the establishment of licences. Secondly, the adaptation of the provisions to new technological developments. Thirdly, the protection of the sovereignty of the independent authorities from the possibility of arbitrary intervention. We have called on you and we invite you today to prove the sincerity of your intentions. So far you haven't done it. If these fundamentally self-evident changes, for anyone who really believes that they need to enter the media, are not accepted, it is clear that your real intention is not to have transparency rules. We are waiting and will wait until the last minute to see the real changes to these issues. We in the Democratic Alliance understand exactly the opposition in this way: not a sterile opposition, but a programme and a constructive opposition, with proposals. Because many times in the past and throughout this process, New Democracy and SYRIZA, SYRIZA and New Democracy have gone ahead with an opposition that has not helped and is not helping the country right now. They need proposals, they need concrete actions, which will lead essentially to improvement rather than a sterile opposition. So go ahead, even now, with these necessary changes and we will support the new framework. But, otherwise, do not seek accomplices in a new anachronistic framework that will even allow opaqueness. We will not allow that. We will not allow a new framework to exist from now on. We want rules to come into order and a new framework, which will be respected by all and all of the Greek society and all the actors will agree to this process, so that we can move forward. We cannot proceed with an up-to-date procedure that is not accepted by anyone. Neither national channels nor regional stations nor the independent authorities are currently accepted. So go ahead with the corrections, move on to the improvements to the specific issues that we are putting here to discuss them and be able to move forward in a new context, transparent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr Nikolaos Papapas, Minister of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, with a feeling of great responsibility, I am going to the Stepping-up of Parliament to recommend the bill, because this legislative initiative and its past has been delayed too long. It is for us an institutional section in the information field, which has had to have happened for many years now. As you know, the bill includes the process of licensing content providers, the strengthening of competition in the area of the provision of a digital signal by the creation of the ERT network, the intervention for the operation of the telecommunications market and the competent regulatory authorities, the establishment of the National Communication Policy Council, the establishment of the National Centre for Audiovisual Media and - very importantly - the creation of the Internet Media Register. Honestly, these days in which the bill is being discussed were very few voices - both in committee and in the public debate, but also in the hours in which we have been working in plenary - to say that things are now well burned. Here I would like the criticism, as the time passes, to become much more specific, because a key issue that has emerged is the inability of the supposed draft of this bill to name shares. In this, ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing but to refer you to the painful reality that we are experiencing at the moment. There is currently a blog that includes offshore company. Something has been wrong. I would even say that criticism is always acceptable and I also welcome the creative spirit, because it seems to be a matter which is self-evident. I am optimistic and has made it clear that there can really be very broad consensus. I would like in this sense to welcome the intention of the River Parliamentary Group to vote in favour at first instance. You will be distributed within a short time and the legislative improvements, so the other parties will be able to place themselves. Our intention is to contribute to the development of the audiovisual industry and communication, taking into account all horizontal links between the communication sector and public diplomacy, the development of infrastructure and technology. That is why we propose interministerial action and synergies between the public bodies involved. We hear that everything we do is to blackmail and get favor and that we are late to get favor and that we are threatening to get favor and bring this bill as well to get favor. Whatever we do, I do not think one can seriously support the fact that the fact that I have the honour and the burden to represent at the moment has the favor of the majority of the media. Let me go a little more thoroughly into the chapters of the bill. In Part 1, the authorisation procedure is regulated. Here I would like to stress that any objections and the opposition parties have to at least call on them the provisions on the auctioning of licences to vote for them - it will be a very serious, positive message - by keeping everyone's specificity and criticism of the bill, which is absolutely legitimate. However, I believe that this will be a very clear message, particularly to those concerned and to everyone seeking to shape the new landscape. The authorisation procedure for content providers is therefore regulated through the tendering procedure. This is to restore legality in terms of the operation of television channels and in line with the constitutional requirements and the relevant decisions of the Council of State. A criticism from some colleagues is that the spectrum is unlimited and that there is no need for authorisation. We heard this criticism this morning. I must say that it is a criticism that is unstable. In detail, the co-rapporteur spoke to the committees. He will do it again, to show that the television spectrum is not unlimited. In particular, this unfounded argument must not be reproduced in order to decouple one of the main objectives of the draft law, which is the auctioning of licences. This is not an unlimited range - much more will be said by the co-rapporteur - and I think the world is also convinced of the opposite. In no country in the world is it possible for the network provider to provide quality services to an infinite number of television channels. It was heard this morning that the market should regulate how many channels they can empower. Do you consider that a process of self-regulation has emerged from our television scenery, whose, if anything, is anarchy and immunity? Obviously not. Non-viable economic patterns and past problems of interrelated with the banking and political system have been recovered. It has been said several times over the last two or three days that a Minister and therefore the government cannot determine the number of television licences, that this is unconstitutional and that it is inconsistent with modern technological reality. To make a little reminder, particularly to the MPs of Officerial Response: The arrangement is identical to the 2007 law. It is acceptable to make criticism. To raise tons, though, and to try to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u297	Of course you don't agree. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u298	In 2007, they were few.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u299	Wait a minute. I say that raising tons and building, through this provision, an argument that will lead to the vote, is not something that is politically functional, if you would like me. Allow me at this point to submit a note on the Minutes from the database of the European Audiovisual Observatory, according to which in seven countries of the European Union the authorisation of content providers falls within the scope of the responsibility of the relevant Ministry. Please listen to me. Licences are subject to the responsibility of the Ministry responsible in Italy, Spain, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark and Finland. It does not interfere, there is no interference by the independent regulatory authority. They're handed over by the Ministry. We are talking about arrangements which have nothing to do with the arrangements and provisions of this bill. [[At this point, the Minister of State, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The regulatory authority plays an important role in the licensing process, and in our own bill it is foreseen that the licensing is carried out by an international tendering procedure, the auctioning of licences on the basis of a notice, not by the Minister, but by the National Broadcasting Council. The PSE does not just issue the notice, it expresses a reasoned opinion - and we will improve the regulation - on the number of licences, it collects, controls the documents and it pre-selections, which means that, if anyone wanted to obtain a benefit in order to participate in and succeed in the tender, any other than the government should discuss or deal with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u300	Will the PSE opinion be binding or merely consultative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u301	The PSE opinion at the moment and if we wanted it cannot and should not be binding. Because it itself admitted the PSE, in the text which we distributed, that it does not have the scientific displacement and the adequacy of judging neither the number of licences nor anything else. Well, I'd say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u302	Equip it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u303	Please don't interrupt me. I would say, therefore, that the necessary steps must be taken here, so that the PSE can obtain a legal composition, through a process of wide consensus - I repeat it for the Minutes, Mr Augias - and obtain a legal composition and leave any shadow from the debate that some will try, through the narcisation of the process of setting up the Broadcasting Council, to mine the licensing procedure. The PSE therefore pre-selections applications, grants and renews licences, can withdraw them in the event of breach of the terms and, of course, retains all its existing responsibilities. There are, of course, very strict and specific terms and conditions for those involved in the tender. Minimum number of employees. We have heard criticisms coming from different aspects. Others said it's too big a number, others said it's too low. It is a number that responds to the reality of employment at the moment at private television stations. There is, of course, the provision for technical completeness and infrastructure requirements, and there is a requirement for transparency in the ownership regime, 'from the point of view', denomination of shares to the natural person, loan outstandings and liabilities, minimum paid-up capital, maintenance of equity throughout the period of authorisation and, of course, specifications of the programme. Licences have a ten-year duration. The tendering procedure and the completion of the licensing procedure shall be completed in accordance with the applicable frequency maps. The starting price is determined by a joint ministerial decision of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of State, and the PSE controls applications for compliance, as I have said before, with the conditions for participation. The tendering procedure excludes those who have been convicted of felony or other offences, such as fraudulent bankruptcy, operators who conclude public contracts, as provided for in Article 3, owners, partners, managers involved in broadcasting and advertising companies and, of course, those who are not tax and insurance information and do not provide a certificate of bank information. Rules are laid down to ensure the provision of a digital signal network throughout the territory. Here, let me repeat something I have said and in the discussion procedure in committee. I and my co-rapporteur have received 12 parliamentary questions in the previous administration for areas in the country that are not covered by the digital signal. I repeat this and repeat it: it must be a lesson for all of us that private initiative in the major infrastructures has proved to be non-functional. We regret to note that there is a lack of signal in areas which are sensitive to national issues such as Thrace and the eastern Aegean. The creation of the 'ERT-net' is therefore fully in line with the founding law of the 'ERT SA' and the earlier legislation, as well as European experience and Community law. This draft also establishes the National Communication Policy Council. The government, aware of the critical moments for the country and with a sense of responsibility, is moving towards the establishment and functioning of this institution and on the organization of communications diplomacy structures, which, ladies and gentlemen, have been institutionalised in the country for decades. We have not discovered, as some people have said, the communication diplomacy and, of course, the press and communication offices are not being established today abroad. There are other countries such as France and Germany, and I think that there should not be any criticism that would lead to the vote. We believe that the effort must be strengthened to present and support Greek positions to the international public, because our country is an island of stability in an unstable region, and this must be known to everyone, always and constantly. For example, there are similar functions in the United States with the National Framework for Strategic Communication, the Public Diplomacy Council in Catalonia, the Communication Delivery Board in Great Britain and the French Government Information Service in France. The National Centre for Audiovisual Media is also set up. This is the basis for the development of audiovisual media and digital technology. The aim is to save the country's historical audiovisual stock and the development of the cultural and creative industry. The previous governments have unfortunately ignored technological developments and have undermined the importance of rescuing and exploiting the country's cultural and audiovisual stock. To reverse this logic, the EMFF will implement programmes and actions to support public and private initiatives in the areas of audiovisual and digital technology. The company will be exclusively served by civil servants and therefore there will be no additional burden. On the other hand, its nature will be developmental and will in every way help to support activities in the audiovisual media sectors. The Management Board shall be composed of representatives of the Ministries concerned. Finally, we recommend the electronic media business register. We need to strengthen this activity, the activity of the internet, and we need to record and subject them to the general regulatory framework for the media as far as possible. Particular emphasis is placed on respect for transparency and ethical standards and respect for workers' working rights. Before I close - and I shall be brief - I would like to say two - three things about change in the bill, which will be distributed to you, among other things, because I do not know if you have been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u304	They haven't been distributed yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u305	They haven't been distributed. In paragraphs 1 and 4 of Article 2 we will speak of a'reasoned opinion of the competent independent and regulatory authorities'. Secondly, for people with disabilities, Article 8(5) and (6), special care is provided and we accept the proposal that has been put forward to establish three days as a minimum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u306	New Democracy has been submitted, say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u307	New Democracy. And it is the river's proposal to transmit to very specific programme hours, which will also have the functions that will make them accessible to people with disabilities. Thirdly - and importantly - for the number of staff of the candidates to be granted a regional licence for regional channels. We understand the proposals of the bodies and Members of all the parties and propose that the minimum number of their staff should be decided by a joint decision of the Minister for Labour, the Minister for Social Solidarity and the Minister for Social Solidarity...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u308	It's worse. Tell the ministers how many they'll hire?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u309	No, it's not worse because...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u310	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u311	I repeat: we propose that there should be a future ministerial decision on the level of employment, that the provision should be left, which seems to have very many negative immediate consequences, but that we find the time to discuss a reasonable working framework, because at the moment in the regional media there is...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u312	This, Minister, creates even bigger problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u313	Uh, okay, that's our proposal, Mr. Aygaki. I think we have all the opportunity to hear your counter-proposals. No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u314	What ministers did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u315	Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Minister of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u316	And the public order, probably, together, to impose...!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u317	Finally, in Article 37, the position of the Heads of the Organic Units of the General Secretariat for Information and Communication will be addressed by a presidential decree of its new organisation, expected after the draft law was passed and in accordance with the instructions and circulars of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. It remains clear that in the organic units related to communication diplomacy, as defined in this law and its organisation, they are exclusively employees of the Communications Industry. I close, ladies and gentlemen, with this: I think there are many comments to be made about the bill. This bill is a major intersection, it's a new beginning. I urge you to go over and over - and the opposition parties - and keep in mind that it is very important for the state's license and strong effort to get into the television scenery. Content providers may and must be known with their name, not to be hidden. We mustn't let any windows hide. The state must intervene where the uncontrolled market forces proved to be unable to give the citizen the good of information, as they should, and we really need to start a new era for television things, but above all for the relations of the political world with entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Pappa. The President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Michaloliacos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already heard the Minister... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, a little politeness would not hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u320	Please, those who want to leave, leave immediately so that the meeting can continue. You're welcome, Mr. Michaloliaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister spoke earlier about the legislation which the government brings to Parliament, which will put an end to the complexion. Of course we want to put an end to the complexion, but we have great doubts as to whether or not that will be achieved with this legislation. Everyone in this Chamber should already know that there are very strange and mysterious types in luxury restaurants and luxury neighborhoods with bodyguards, who say they have studios ready and TV licenses ready. For twenty - five years, since 1990, when the famous free television came to the surface, the political world has been subjected to full slavery to the pimps of the channels. The model of power is a channel - public works contract - a football team. With such stars the country went twenty-five years and was led to bankruptcy. He said earlier that everything should be checked by the Minister. Yeah. At this point, we have to say a great deal of truth: there is no television. There must be no private television. Frequency is a popular good, a national right and cannot be given to any barbaric speculator in order to carry out his works. So the power must really be to the government on television stations, but it must be controlled. And there comes the role of the National Broadcasting Council. The model that has been applied so far must be shared that it has not served. Either the fines imposed were never collected or no one ever listened to them. And we have a bitter experience as Golden Dawn from our exclusion. In fact, all of you who represent democrats and respect minorities, the 7% minority of Chrysayites, the four hundred thousand Greeks and Greeks, why do you not respect it? Why do you exclude us from all channels and from all newspapers? [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Powers, therefore, to pimps and also to the other raw violations of the Constitution. In the days of the New Democracy Government, and in particular Kostas Karamanlis, an effort was made with the so-called special shareholder's law to check the immunity of the channels. And it came to the point - the journalist, Mr. Kotakis, writes this in his book - the New Democracy's own factors were absent when the law controlling pimps was passed. And at the end the European Union itself, which is the great pimp, the pimp of pimps, came to stop this from happening. And so, while Article 14 of the Constitution specifically states that the property regime - not to read it self-determination and eat time - does not matter - it must be fully controlled and there is nothing to do with public works contractors, we have seen the contractors continue to have the same rights and have the same channels and regulate the political life of the country. In addition, Articles 14 and 15 clearly state that there is a freedom of the press, other than those at the point where public shame is affected. Who really remembers the case when a prosecutor professedly "insane", one of those crazy people who drive the nation higher, prosecuted the late Lambrakis for the famous ads - '090' was then, '90' is now - and the police never arrested him, why was it considered an unknown address? You don't remember. But you'll remember something now. Here is the newspaper "THE NATIONS", this brilliant newspaper that also covers the largest television station. Look at the ads. I'll testify to them in the Minutes. 'Hot stories', 'hot moments', 'take us now', 'awaiting for you', 'powerful delights'. These are the pillars of your democracy! These pimps and the very serious commentators who come out in the 20:00 newsletter and tell you the different things and have buried the Golden Dawn. And right, they've buried her, because that's their role, to bury anything national. The same people are paid by who? Of all the perverts who get these phones, which belong to offshore companies. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn submits for the minutes the above-mentioned newspaper, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The same regime is happening with the newspapers, it also happens with the channels. I did not see you talking about this at all, Minister, and what will happen on this matter. In this respect, all these companies ‘90 ts’ belong to multinational companies and offshore companies. How will they continue to speculate at the expense of the Greek people with an asset of the Greek people, such as frequencies? We have also not heard any foreign restrictions in order to buy Greek or local frequencies. Can you imagine what will happen if the Turkish consulate, which has a river of money at its disposal, buys a television station in Thrace and makes the propaganda it does? How are you gonna stop this? With the law? Everything about globalisation? Open borders in the palm and so help us? The money above all and above national interests? You also need to deal with this issue and put on a safety net. It is a great role for the fourth authority. On this subject, since we are talking about 'free' television, about private television, you must be aware that when it was first made private television, it was where else? In the United States of America. So what did they say? They said those who have newspapers can't buy TV. What did they do here? They called the journalists who had newspapers and told them 'take and take TV'. If this is not called a conflict or a concentration of power, then what is it? So the situation went on. As the subject of the report by my competitor, the Member of Parliament for the sale of '902', I have to tell you that it is not just '902'. Of the major stations, which exist today, do you know how many on their blog they own, which belongs to offshore companies? What about all of them? So we've got a lot of shopping. Even the president of a party, who recently entered Parliament, had a television station, which he sold. I'd like to know, all those people who had the stations, who got them distributed as journalists, how did they sell them after? What was it? Was it their father's vineyard or a right that the state had granted them free of charge? You should therefore, if you want clearance, see what it means. Not from now on, it's all good from there and beyond what's been done so far, we're folding it and it's over. Here, for what has been done so far, there are responsibilities and criminal and economic interests, which are not covered by the law - a scandal about the responsibility of the Ministers. There are responsibilities which absolutely need to be sought. I have already spoken - and I shall come back - about the National Broadcasting Council, which does not listen to the channels, write it to the oldest of their footwear and which is planned to be an intergroup. We fully disagree. It must be an independent body controlled by judges who see whether the law applies. Because otherwise the bazaar begins. And there is also no provision for those fines, which require that they be collected and not by means of administrative courts, to be void. And, of course, the Minister, if the question of freedom and democracy is raised somewhere, can withdraw the licence of the television or radio station. At the meeting of the bodies, my Member and competitor, Mr Papapas, asked, in order not to be confused with the name, because state television is not calling us. He replied that others would not accept. Their right and respect, we have democracy. From there on, however, in a period of a hundred minutes we have the legal right of one eighth, if you like, of time, as representatives of all the parliamentary parties are called. This should be imposed on the channels and not be sent as a directive by the National Broadcasting Council and from there on to write it on the oldest of their footwear. It is also necessary for those who have had their hands on the large television stations and have regulated the country's political life to give an account of their financial and political debts, to have no right now to take a licence, when they owe another 150, another 180, another 100 million, but also to give us a reason for their lives and their state all these years. It was not long since July 5, 2015, when we had the referendum, when all the major television stations were straying and jeopardizing the 'yes'. Who gave them this right to make public opinion of the people? It's a right they took with dirty money. This must not pass, because otherwise we do not have democracy, we have a corrupt pluralism. And that was with those channels. They must therefore provide reason not only for their financial debts. To give an account of their political debts. How many people do you remember in '99 all the big television stations having every afternoon television show on the Stock Exchange and driving the Greek people like sheep to deposit their property there - in that, do I agree - the fornicator of capitalism that is the Stock Exchange and lose its property? Don't they have any responsibility for the channels that have created this climate? Up to a close advisor to the previous Prime Minister, he said the Stock Exchange would reach seven thousand units. Memory weak. No one remembers it. And the Stock Exchange is not today in the seven hundred units. No responsibility, therefore, because they led an entire people to the first bankruptcy with the Stock Exchange. For 2004, directly responsible for bankruptcy, so many scandals in public works, equipment, many, what money did the channels get to advertise in 2004? Has anyone seen the funds? They don't have a responsibility for that either? Do they not even have a responsibility for the famous Memorandum when, for four, five years, they have prophesied that we will be saved from the Memorandum? Shouldn't all this be sought out? They must be sought. The Golden Dawn has to denounce this vicious regime of interlocutory and wish the new government to crush it. We're on our guard. We don't have an opinion yet. We'll see. There's a lot going on. We in this bill did not see there being a clear picture that they would be punished, that they would cease to have influence by those who raised governments, those who led to the looting of an entire people, those who created wounds in the very body of the national trunk. They have to pay and only then will it be seen whether it really will clarify the issue of interactiveism. As far as the Golden Dawn is concerned, we are honoured to be excluded from pimps. We need a respected part of the people. That's what we serve and we'll stay up till the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much. The President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u323	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot allow myself not to talk about this issue. Very rarely, or else I shall be speaking as a Member, although I am following as much as I can and as much as I can, because, apart from being present in the public debate and in the course of the last fifteen years for the media, I have also been rapporteur for the question of ERT in the previous period and a member of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, in which three or four very serious debates on these issues have taken place, which I would recommend in their minutes, because they have a lot of technical and political elements that have been raised in those discussions, to proceed by Saturday when the last debate is to take place. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact over the past few months, and particularly in the past month, I have been feeling very well watching the channels - I mean most private television - and the sensitivity to all the issues and the consequences of all the policies being pursued. It's like living in another country after five years that you couldn't see anything that refers to the consequences of the crisis and, really - I don't say it ironically - I'm sitting there, although I understand that to a certain extent they're selectively folded, because that affects me for our work here. He's pushing me. I don't feel bad. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of issues which need to be cleared up and cleared up. In the morning I did not want to intervene when discussing constitutionality in this respect: for example, the issue of the number of licences is a very great mistake for those who think that because technology, the digital spectrum, there is indeed a great deal of potential for many channels. I'm talking about the national range, I'm not talking about regional. This is a market issue. In fact, I saw that Mr Venizelos in his speech and the important one, that, that is, the market will eventually show what will remain and what will go away. It's a big mistake. That's exactly where it's confronting public character and frequency ownership. All the public debate that has taken place in Greece and Europe - and I say this and do not look into it - in recent years, both for analogue and digital spectrum - tends to see that every time national channels and the possibilities that some will have to be in relation to the population and the economic opportunities available, i.e. advertising pie, etc. Otherwise they can't be maintained. Otherwise, because no one is immoral in here, they will constantly degrade their level. Obviously, they can work twenty-five, so--and? - with three and a half employees, a caller, play, ready movies, no journalists. How will they survive? Advertising pie is specific. In the phase of the analogue spectrum, two to four permits were said in Greece. Now let them be as many as they are. I fully agree that it is a matter of understanding how many permits are to be granted. How many? Is that six? Seven? I am talking about national channels, not regional and other. It's absolutely right. Otherwise, the complication starts from there. A business to live wants advertising, degrades its product, goes and find someone who is provoking it, politician or businessman. Should we speak with names, pan-Hellenic?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u324	Let's talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u325	I didn't cause, Mrs. Vulture, to God! You will have realised that I am not going to talk about any party. And that's how the complication begins. So the issue of the number of licences is extremely important and we should also have a scientific debate and a political debate. Secondly, unfortunately, I did not hear any self-criticism about the black in the ERT. So, how did that thing happen over the past few years? And what does one appreciate and now in relation to the opportunity given in there, I mean by pluralism and themes, to approach social issues and others? There was also no criticism of the unregulated television scenery of so many years. I mean in some respects, because in other respects, there is a systematic criticism on them. However, most of the people who raised the tons and in the previous debates were not talking about misery - let me say - who has largely dominated this television scene all these years. Can we talk about manipulation? Clean things now, don't talk about it. In addition to the degraded cultural or other level, political manipulation has been clearly attempted for decades, in all the critical turnings of the country's political life, in the name of interests and others. Of course, private interests and private businesses may also have an opinion and anything else they want. But let's see. And when you find it for everyone together, you conceive, i.e. that it's part of the war, it's an organic part of the war parties, ideologically and theoretically, you have to point it out. You have to say it bothers me, even if it was on my side. In any case, you must have lower tons when you say to the new government 'do not change anything'. As far as we can see, the demand for these days is 'do not hurt or change anything'. Why? "Because it is certain that you go to find new strife and new pimps and prove that it is not so." I have heard this four times and it is incredible and absolutely challenging, hypocritical and abstract. Because we all live and we all know what happened these decades to all sides. Another point: "Look at how things worked, don't go and do the same and worse" and don't say anything. Because nothing has been said as a critical view of what has happened in recent years. I mean in some respects.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u326	It has been said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u327	Was it said? All right, all right! Was the other one said? From this seat some of the oldest of all wings remember how many times the "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks", with the serious issue - now I do not raise the tons like I raised them at the time - of the agreement that was made on DIGEA. It's never happened before. And we had asked it three, four times here and the answer had not been given, as was the case with the committees. I heard yesterday and Mr Liaarellis, who was on behalf of the television channels in the committee. It does not raise a question whether it is one or two or three frequency providers. Okay, this should be discussed. Is it possible that the only frequency provider to the programme providers is the cartel of all the channel programme providers? These are, they are programme providers and channels. So they have formed a cartel and they give the signal, they give the frequency to themselves. How many times have we said this from here? How many times have we called to answer? How many times did we tell the committees? Never answered. There is a legal framework, there is the 'Holy ERT', which has made all these simple. Do we like it, ladies and gentlemen? Is that a good thing? It's not. It's abnormal. What has happened over the years has been unnatural. Should I tell you about the other things, when the passage from analogue to the digital age took place? You know it's one of the issues that I know from my time in this House. When the passage from the analogue to the digital age took place, it was signed what was to be signed, extensions were given, in a August... Do you know what was not considered by the ERC at that time and did the Council of State intervene? The capital adequacy of the canalarchs, businessmen, who went through self-sufficient. In other words, there was an amendment that said that those who transmit a signal by 31 August are going through the other era. There, however, the law says - and the PSE knows it better than all of us, because it is the guardian of the law in these matters - that one of the main issues that is being dealt with, in order to obtain permission, is capital adequacy, is the situation of loans, debts. It's been like this. Nothing happened. In a judgment, one, a year and a half ago, all this was done. So don't talk in general and vaguely, because I have heard good speeches about technology and so on. Let us also explain on this issue: technologies are not neutral. Note that whether or not a technology will be promoted to come out, what priorities will it have, in what order of research it will have, how much it will cover the previous technology, to what extent the threshold for passing through a new era will be in many sciences is a question of choice, made both by the market and by politics, surround conflicts of interest and so on. Of course, from the outset there is no technology left or right or class, but in the field of what technological development is going to be, in what direction, obviously the perception of what is going to be covered is very much inertia. And I close with this because it matters: in this House twelve or thirteen years ago - if I am not mistaken - but also in the public area there was a very strong debate on the main shareholder. And I am sorry - Mr Loverdos is present and he is one of the old - how he appeared this morning by the rapporteur for the Democratic Partnership, on the issue of unconstitutionalism, on how democracy was defeated in Greece at that time. It appeared as if it was a storm that came, like what's happening, like crises sometimes. It wasn't like that. Both the Left - both parties on the Left - then voted for most of the articles in the final bill and the final conflict that took place. It set up a lobby in Brussels, which set against the Hellenic Republic what was heard this morning, namely a legislation that made the large lobby uninformed for two months from great interests locally from here. And it became too hard a conflict where the government was defeated. I don't remember if it was then the New Democracy in governance. The government and the ministers and the Prime Minister were defeated. Because then it was a crossroads, it had already become aware of how the history of private television had been distorted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time bell of the President of Parliament is being alarmed.]] I'm done in a minute. He was conscious, and it was a great opportunity to get things right, in order. They didn't get in. And you know why they didn't come in? Because while there was Dutch case law, Mr Loverdos - you know it, you were in Brussels too - and Mr Theocharopoulos, to be regarded as a cultural product, as a media product and an opening-up to television, and therefore to be treated with some Nordic and values and rules, it was considered a commercial product. There has also been a conflict in the European Union, and since then all of this has gone through as trade products, as if we were talking about feta and calf! Yesterday I heard colleagues say: 'Get us to see the European Union's papers, see what they said to you, see if you are in line with the values and rules of the European Union'. I don't know. I have no idea what Mr. Spirtzi said. But I want to say that that's where the story started. To be viewed as the whole story of telepsy, which is a revolution with the digital era, as all the media are now working together and not just the media. Obviously, it's the limit of a new age that we already live and experience from our children. And mobile telephony and so forth is a model that works together. That's where it started. We have left culture, information, information, what the Constitution says, predictions, guarantees. So what do we have to do? In the name of this perception, all of this must be forgotten and said in this ironic way, which I have also seen from the dear representatives of the PSE, 'is it '95, '97' or 'is it old'? Let me say: let us be serious because this is a very serious issue and we can really demarcate a new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u329	Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mr President, following the speech of the Minister, Mr Pappas, I had the desire and willingness to remain in a very strict context with regard to what I will say, in connection with provisions, to be very specific. I won't be able to do it as I'd like. I reserve my dentology and my tritology. We'll have time. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] However, following the speech by the President of Parliament, I am obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to raise a number of wider political issues. Perhaps, Mr President-in-Office, you did not find the time to hear - logically, you have so many jobs - yesterday and today, at least from our side, but from other parties which show the spirit of understanding, you did not find the time to listen to our rapporteur, Mr Papatheodorou, President of DIMAR, Mr Theoharopoulos and I to make three conditions. The first condition is for the government to adapt to what the National Broadcasting Council analyses in its comments. The second condition we have set is to adapt to technology, to see from technology what is relevant to our subject and not to be contradictory to technology. Finally, the third condition is that there should be a complete compromise with the independent authorities. In fact, our intervention is creative. We have heard Mr Spirtzi say that he is in the mood to intervene on Article 18. We, Minister, have also proved this in other draft laws - and now you will see it - that we seek consent, agreements, that we can convene on issues of national or common political interest. Yes, Mr President, Mr Voutsi, the broadcasting landscape needs intervention. Let me remind you, after you've gone to the past decade, that the Simitis government and Christos Protopas had begun their licensing procedures. Mr. Russopoulos stopped them later. And he stopped them because he had the choice of the legislative specialisation of the main shareholder, changes in the constitution that we had done. We said to him at the time: 'Beware of European Community law', then the Union today 'because you will be having problems and then you will not be able to collect them easily'. I remember now that Telemahos Chancellor is speaking to three ministers of the New Democracy, the current President of the Republic, Mr Roussopoulos and one more, because they had come here to take them back, torn apart and to say to them: 'You remind me of a funeral and arrogant relatives'. We must not do this again, be serious and make the speeches, Mr President, which the country needs. You make an intervention and we say 'yes'. We are in the mood to support the principle, but to see what the principle is. The principle is that a class should enter, not become the same again and in worse ways. Get a class in. I spoke this morning about the subject raised by the television communication speech, about the fact that he lends the banking system to canalarchs and newspaper owners. It's about 800 million of their debts. What's with the banks' money, that is, the people and so forth? And what are you doing? We agree with Article 10 of the up-to-date candidate. If that's the way you came into this, you'd have a lot more to do, not to tell you Catholics, consents. You don't get in that way, though. Among other things, that's it. I have already talked to you about two provisions that we will support. But let's go to the beginning, because now the debate is at the outset to reach a consensus. How do we find her at the beginning? With the complaints about what happened in the past few years? Let me tell you what Mr. Constantinople said. All your executives made political careers from the media, key guests. 'My honour, Mr Tada, where you are here'. And the gentleman said that he and the gentleman did not give up on various bulbs, which life proved to be like that, because he came in after three, four, five years, after forging what was going on, to tell us exactly the opposite now. Yesterday, in my speech on the privatisation of the FIFG, which we supported, I mentioned Mr Katrugalo, who found unconstitutional what was happening for five years and now cut off subsidiary companies. And he says it on a TV show! Let's take a little care of the strength of the arguments. They may sound pleasant, but may be unpleasant in substance and do not give solutions. Now let's go find out what the beginning is. We say that the Minister needs to clarify the implementation times. How much, Minister, will you take us to implement this legislation? Say you don't make any more changes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u330	Without an ER, too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u331	Without an EPP alive nothing will happen because even if you follow your insistence on the opinion of the PSE, which you would like not to be binding but justifiable - I will say that afterwards - there is no PSE. The House must complete it. This matter differentiated you from the former President of Parliament for months. We don't have an ER yet. To have an ER, to get into these procedures, to start objections. I see it in a diligent way. But I'm not an expert. I don't know the matter as you know. My legal approach is that it takes a year and a half. If it's a year and a half, we have a year and a half to talk and some to be in a hostage to play communal government games. I'd tell you this is the beginning. That's an easy argument. That's where we hit each other. I'll say it myself, that's what you want to do, that's the beginning, your political slut. It's not right to talk like that. Let's go see the beginning. The principle, ladies and gentlemen, does not come out of intention, comes out of the arrangements. I gather the beginning from about fifty articles in the bill that regulate something. The principle that emerges from this is a state, a state. The Minister runs the test on permits and on the price, executive authority, state, and even the third provision we shall be voting on. To agree, we are not like you, throwing stones. The third provision we will be voting on, for example, the one that provides for the creation of a company, a subsidiary of ERT, which will be a provider...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u332	Linked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u333	Yeah, right, linked. This is again a state, a seven-member Councils, capital of the Greek people. It's a state! It is right that there should be competition, and if the market does not show it, the system of governance should show it. But that's a state too. On the argument I conclude: State. Let's go down. Concept for communication policy from the limits of child: national communication policy, definition of law, international communication policy, definition of law again. And behind it and after that and next to it: institutions, council, again state. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been struggling since 2003 - I have been the first to do so - to set up all our services abroad to an agency and to be at the embassy and the economic and commercial followers - I have carried them - and efforts have been made for the press representatives to be at one point. It is also a question of economy among others, but it is not the main issue. Here again in the 1980s, we return to our own structure. I wasn't a politician at the time, but I remember them, with the late Maruda and the press. The years and decades have passed and the Hellenic Republic has grown. We've seen that's what they need to get together. But you're rechanging it back and you're back there. It's not right. But it's a state here too. Re-establish the Institute of Audiovisual Media. Life has abandoned it as useless. Fourthly, that is, a point that we have a state. This is not a problem. I gave you a very clear indication of our intentions, to be aware of the candidate, to be all his debts regulated, otherwise he can't. I have given you a political attitude on our part. I gave you a form of method to get into the problem. Instead, you put in place procedures that are the same as the past, which have not succeeded. You are insisting on a political commitment that I do not understand and above all on arguments of honesty and transparency, but which are not based on the draft law. They are probably based on your own intentions, which we do not doubt, but on the text of the draft law. Example of the conditions we have set, Mr Minister, but also of the reality, as someone else shows, not us: we say that the denomination of shares has been a weapon in the past. We wanted it to know who we are dealing with in order to implement the incompatibilitys. All the incompatibility, ladies and gentlemen, that exists in the plan, if we do not have a clear view of the shareholder and do not know him, is to have a good witness outside. We are telling you that denomination as it was in force did not prevent what you raised, namely offshore companies from participating and that we do not know what the situation is on any television media. You also insist on this, and the provisions you put lead, by overlooking the experience, to worse results. I will tell you not what we say, the Democratic Reconciliation, but what the National Broadcasting Council says. Listen, colleagues. These are in our hands from the relevant document with the Council's comments yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u334	Today's text?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u335	Last night. It is not understandable why the shares of domestic companies must belong to natural persons at second level, where in the next paragraph - that is paragraph 1 - foreign companies are allowed not to do so, invoking the law of their registered office. Hello! Paragraphs 2 and 3. This is more serious. Foreign limited companies are required, according to the draft law, to declare, by simple submission, the persons who effectively control the company the beneficial owners. We believe that this regulation does not guarantee the transparency of the property regime. Appropriate provisions should be adopted with those in force in other Member States of the European Union. See, for example, the legislation of Germany and the United Kingdom. How is transparency ensured? How is the Minister of State - and was his first word here - guaranteed by his own regulations? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little more, 'cause I don't have time. Mr President, please. He says Mr. Pappas "do what you want for all the others, but support the tender, support the auction". I would like to say to him - Mr Spirtzi - that you should pass it on to him and, ladies and gentlemen, see the text - that is: The auctions are self-evident for every licence that the Minister will set the number. Dear Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, you said something this morning that was interesting and I looked at the law again. There is no indication of the number of those who will take the licence. The number has emerged and the number is determined by the recipients. If that were what you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u336	He's not finite, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u337	...we'd be in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u338	He's not finite, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u339	He's not inexperienced. The government says it's wrong to say he's inexperienced. Mr. Pappas said that Mr. Spirtzis proved this. Yeah, but it's not five or six. Spatiality's bigger. As to whether you were right, I listened to you, I immediately looked at the law and said "the man may not have noticed it. I imagine that you have noticed it, but what you thought - which would be right - does not touch here. He doesn't touch the draft law. If we have an own-initiative auction - think about it, Mr Ministers - we may have another leave tomorrow, both national in scope. Watch out. With the rounds of auctions it costs me to get the alpha license and another beta. Is that right? Is it right for the Minister to set the starting price, then the market to shape one another, otherwise the third licence? I would say, 'I want to take this money, I am entitled to it, I determine the price', and the offer will result in its advantages and its disadvantages from other criteria. You say that. But tell me that, too. Because you have also invoked the past, since there is, as the National Council assesses, a opacity to the shareholders, what prevents one who has a channel to shut it down, to feed the whole world and to be a candidate again to a nomination company, to a company or consortium, as the law says, without appearing? How do you rule that out? You can't rule that out. That is why, when PASOK and DIMAR, the Democratic Integration tells you to see what the National Broadcasting Council says and to adapt to it, we are not telling you to find reason to strike you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u340	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u341	You do this with us all the time. We say it to see if there's a common place or if you want to play games on our back. And because you play games on our back very often and because you don't have a deal, we'll wait. We are convinced of the Spirtzi adaptation, as Mr Papatheodorou said yesterday in the Standing Committee. We'll probably go together to Article 18, as you told Mr. Papatheodorou yesterday. But it does not convince us, ladies and gentlemen, that I am closing down with this - the Minister of State and we want to see it again. We say to him that you should go to the National Broadcasting Council - which does not have the same potential, but on many issues, not only for that - the competence to determine the number and to adapt it. While he said, ‘Opinion’, he adds ‘Reasoned opinion’. It'll be justifiable anyway. The question is whether it is binding. We call it 'according to the opinion', which is where you must justify your refusal or your decision to act otherwise. And if you're clean and want to go to transparency, to get the Pope and the Pope on top of him, you have to say, "After a binding opinion" and so you closed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u342	Set a perfect one, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u343	I'm closed, Mr. President. When it comes to other legal classes, which say that at the end of the day the Minister gives permission, that is formal competence. And that is what the Minister will say, but it does so in the definitions made by the National Broadcasting Council. Our point, Mr Spirtzi, is not who signs the final act, it is not our subject. It's about who determines who he's going to be at work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u344	The terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u345	The formal act that surrounds the relevant decision of the National Broadcasting Council is not our point. It's the Minister. In this sense, everyone has such an arrangement. Our question is who makes the essential political decision, who takes the decision on the basis of criteria and, as it proved - and I closed it - you took the record back of how many people have to employ every channel, national, regional and local. Four hundred...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u346	Just peripheral.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u347	Just peripheral. That was their request.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u348	Is that all you got? Does that not tell you, ladies and gentlemen, as a method, that matters are unreasonable? When you say, "I'm taking back the two of you," how did you get to the two of you? Why didn't you put five hundred?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Loverdo, we'd rather you finish this once, not three.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u350	We're not playing the courgettes here. Here we see the needs and the numbers come out. Please, by using the method you have used for regional channels, see your weakness - and every government, not just that - of putting these criteria in place and trust them under the Constitution, and in this case the National Broadcasting Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u351	Minister Spirtz has the floor to make some legal interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, not now. Parliamentary representatives shall not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u353	Mrs Vulture, the Parliamentary Representatives have told us that they are waiting for some amendments and will then be put in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u354	I didn't say that. Anyway, what can I tell you? If you want to talk, okay, that's fine. Let's talk. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u355	Say you're in an advantageous position to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u356	Mr President, I would like to put forward the legislative improvements so that they can be distributed so that you know them. Come on, talk. I'll be here by night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u357	You must present them, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no. They'll share and present them later. Mr. Pappas presented some and I will present the rest in my speech so that we won't be late. Come on, Mrs. Vulture. Mr President, I am tabling the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, the Members are here finally only to vote! It's not about talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u361	Mr Karaoglu, this is not just about the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u362	It's all about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u363	Mr President, since this morning eight Members have spoken and it is 21.00 hours an hour. We've been here since morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u364	You're right. I call on the parliamentary representatives at least to respect the time. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, I will need six minutes. I don't want more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u366	Thank you very much. Mr Karras promises that he will set a good example to the other parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u367	I will try, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, because before entering into the bill, it has been heard - and it has remained - by Mr Michaloliakos that our President, Mr Leventis, is the owner of a channel, we must clarify a few things. He was the owner, you're right. However, to clarify: it was not incompatible because it was not a contractor and it did not have contracts with the public. He was a freelance professional and under the current legislation he had some shares in a channel, which he then transferred. It is the well-known 'EXTRA' channel today, which operates under other property. We therefore believe that this should be recorded so that it does not go far or far in any direction. I shall now refer to the concept of the principle of the draft law. I must point out that this bill, whether we want it or not, is a cumulation of four bills. There is a partial continuation in the first and second chapters, but the third and fourth chapters are completely irrelevant to each other. What's the third and what's the fourth chapter? The third chapter regulates the issues of the Committee on Telecommunications and Posts. They are not relevant in that sense. Nor are the provisions relating to communication policy or to the so-called 'communication diplomacy' relevant. These are issues which have nothing to do with the bill being discussed. Also, they have nothing to do with the same bill on the issues of co-financed projects or the opening on the National Road, in order to communicate or anything else with areas used to serve passengers. So we think in this sense that, as far as the bill is concerned, we are not in a position to vote on it in principle. But we have said something and I want to point it out. Where the first chapter refers to provisions relating to licensing and ensuring transparency, but also to the procedure, we are positive. On Saturday in plenary we will be placed in particular. But since some improvements have been made, I want to say something. The Ministers accepted the notion of a reasoned opinion which I requested yesterday in committee. Mr. Loverdos had a different view. He said he was not in agreement and therefore, since the opinion was not in agreement, he was not binding on the Minister. He'll let me tell him something. He's a law firm. It is not present but note that the reasoned opinion obliges the independent authority and the regulatory authority to have full reasons. If they are not fully justified, the Minister should reject them. If he accepts them, his decision will be null and void. So we think that, in the sense of the assent, we have come to this legal result. We consider this provision to be positive. I want to note one more thing. We also consider the provision on regional channels to be positive. I am referring to improvements to the bill. I haven't seen Mr. Spirtzi's improvements yet to be placed. Given that the number of workers in a joint ministerial decision depends now on regional channels, I would like to ask for something on this point. Regional channels do have a problem. I think all the wings in the House have accepted it. We can't accept... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I am watching time, Mr President, and I am a little nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u368	No, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u369	Since we have all been placed on the question of the number of workers, I would like to ask that this provision be improved by a number of criteria. I listened very well yesterday to the fact that one can hire gardeners to scaffold their land and show them as workers on the channel and show that it covers the number of people employed. I would therefore like to see this provision entrusting the Minister with the number of workers - and I understand that it will have regional differentiation - that Thessaloniki cannot have a regional channel called 'Thessaloniki' or a regional one in Evros or in a single island with the same number of workers, so that certain criteria can be laid down quantitatively and qualitatively, so that the power given by the legislator to produce the House is complete. Let me just say one last thing. Mr Katrugalos referred to me and said that there is a provision when I raised the issue of the main shareholder that they should, as long as they are foreign or foreign companies, be forced annually to produce their shares. I said it because, as the law says, it refers to a single or a transfer. They must be obliged annually, because there is no procedure for authorising the transfer and there can be no legality. Mr Katrugalos mentioned that there is an authorisation procedure in Article 10, I think, if I am accurate. There is no authorisation procedure. There's an announcement procedure. So in that sense... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. Give me one more minute. The communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions is very different. So it should come back there. We will insist that it be added to the provision: 'the annual deposit of the register'. There should also be administrative financial penalties and, in the event of relapse, there should be a withdrawal of the authorisation, because this alone will not guarantee 100% transparency, but we will improve a step in the right direction. In other words, I will refer to the Saturday articles debate. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. I don't see Mr. President, Mr. Voutsi here, but from his speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u372	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u373	Okay, excuse me, Mr. President. ...I understood very well - although we had understood it before - because this bill is coming right now and why you are showing up fighters of interlocutory right now. You're doing this because out there is the troika you're talking to and with which you would never talk and somehow you had to cover this up. Mr President, Mr Voutsi, on 23 January, two days before the elections you said: 'There is no draft meeting with the Troika, because there is no subject'. And Mr Stathakis - who is three days there until tomorrow - said to us: 'The Troika will not return to Athens because the new government will not speak with the troika'. That's it! You're talking to the troika, and then it's your freedom of the press!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u374	Olad's out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u375	Listen now! With the troika you have been speaking since yesterday, and even in hotels!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u376	Yes, but you refer to the January elections!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u377	It's Genoa's. In the meantime, what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u378	In the meantime, twice more, the people trusted us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u379	The troika is here! And then he came...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u380	With this program, Mrs. Vulture!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u381	No, no! Let go of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u382	That's not what you're saying! Incidentally, however, you hide some things!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u383	Don't waste time on me with an unexistent argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u384	Mrs. Drill, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u385	Don't waste my time on an unexistent argument. The people would give you a second chance, just like they've given Deligiannis. Don't go to these now. You're wasting my time! That's a special speech now! In my view, as far as the Minister of State responsible for press affairs is concerned, I think we have rushed to call him a 'Canalarch'. The title of this bill finally proves to be small for its measures. I think that this bill forbids himself, like any of his counterparts, to "Minister of People's Enlightenment and Propaganda". Remember who had that title before and at what time! Because we are indeed in front of a ghetto inspirational piece of legislation! When Mr Katrugalos spoke before - who would not see the troika and would resign if the troika told him what to do - referring to report content, i.e. clearly referring to censorship, then we remembered - at least I remembered - a famous speech by Goebbels that began with the phrase 'We seek a law against conscious lies'. Kanalaarch became the Minister when ERT was reconstituted, when the supervisory board was abolished and the management himself decided to appoint. Yesterday, it was discovered that the Minister did not apply his own law to ERT. And I do not know whether anyone should go for a job violation, because Mrs Savvaidou cannot only go for a job violation. If the law doesn't apply, someone else has to go. Now, then, with this piece of legislation, the Minister gathers all the powers on his face. He's doing what he wants to the ERT, having raised the payroll to 50,000,000 euros! When you tax what it breathes, when you tax on farmers, when you raise VAT on education, I inform you that with everything you do, ERT costs 50 000 000 euros a year! And of course they don't have enough money, because the rest go to the surplus to do what you say in your bill. The Minister decides not only for the ERT but also for the General Secretariat of Information and even decides specifically who will become heads, who will be promoted, how much is needed and what the needs of the service are. The Minister again "builds" and journalists public officials - his employees! - because it no longer permits a journalist who offers his services to a public press - because journalists will also work there - to have a second job in the private sector. So it makes him his instrument. The Minister is dismantling independent authorities. It underestimates the National Broadcasting Council only by saying that it does not have the knowledge. But the board doesn't have to have the knowledge itself. I was a member and I know!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u386	Don't you have to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u387	There were people of unknown prestige and underneath there - I don't know what you've done now - services, technicians, knowledgeers, lawyers and solved these issues. Of course the board doesn't need to know all the issues. Do we all know each other? Oh, no! So, after all this, the Minister of Press - whoever he is - becomes the head of a newly-familiar Council of National Communication Policy, i.e. a national propaganda centre from which the government's non papers will now be released. In fact, they put this in the bill and give the definition of 'internal public opinion'. Where did you see that? Have you seen in a bill that the legislator can explain to us what 'internal public opinion' is? It explains what 'democratic mediation' is in an unbelievable way. He says "democratic mediation" is the mediation of journalists in the negotiations with foreign internationalers. When did this happen? There's no terminology. There's mediation, but it's not about them. It is completely inappropriate and appropriate to talk about regulation and supervision in the media, and you do not distinguish them from electronic media. You're talking about media. No, they're the electronic media, and that's what the Constitution talks about. Well, actually, you dare talk about internal political information. What regime does this and it says it and it legislates it? Well, look, you've lied too much. And when the lie is revealed, there is no refuge from the courage and from the repression. And here it seems you're doing both. Well, we all remember what you were saying in this election, Mrs. Drickley, not then. But, anyway, when you first saw the people's vote, what did you say? That there will be no recovery of HPAI in 2015, that the wage and pension reductions will not increase VAT, the zero deficit clause will not be applied. Mr. Papas himself, when Mrs. Merkel had that dinner with Mr. Holland on 30 January, because now Mr. Holland is here, said to Mrs. Merkel "we will say good appetite, but we will not eat the Greek people". And in February, before the agreement of 20 February, he said, "I laugh at those who dream of assholes." Please, I have here for the Minutes a little blooming because I would lose all my speech if I referred to everything that has been said. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So now that you've forced the damned ass, now that you're really preparing to eat the Greek people, on your own responsibility, what are you doing? You offer spectacles for distraction without bread. Because you've lied too much and the bill is a lie disguised in a bill. That's how they do - I inform you - all the totalitarian regimes. They're finding out a fantastic enemy and they're attacking him. They become the incarnation of the good, and the evil is against them. In other words, they make people's enemies to be able to fall asleep. What's the bill? Absolutely nothing! There's a great lie here, Mr. Geebbels. Why do you know that Goebbels said that the people believe that a great lie is easier than a small lie, why do you say, "well, my child, is it possible to lie so much?" Your bill goes back before 2011, when the signal was proportionate. You're trying to regulate something that doesn't exist. You know that the whole world really knows that from 1989 to 2011 there was immunity and anarchy. You know that this has been impressed in everyone's mind, but no one knows at the moment in the country - I am not only talking about people who are not involved, but also about others, as I heard here - what happened after 2011, that there was a mandatory digital era beginning, that all procedures have been followed, that network and content providers are shared, that frequencies in the state and network providers have been returned from 2012 to 2014. Of course, no one knows that the auction you're talking about has already been held at an international auction in February 2014. None of this, of course, remembers any of this from the people and that's why you're mocking him. The people remember, because it was a very long time ago, indeed, the state of anarchy, which we, too, built at journalistic conferences, etc. Well, what you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u388	The contest...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u389	This is another competition, this is 'DIGEA'. If you don't like it, put ERT...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u390	Was it only a one-company auction with DIGEA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u391	Fifty million payroll has! Yesterday ERT's gentlemen came and said: 'Oh, it's nothing, it does five and a half million. Oh, it's nothing, it does 400 thousand. Oh, that's nothing, a clutch, decoy, etc. Makes 17 thousand." Where do these come from? From the farmers' VAT? So where are you going to get them from? It's the Minister's word from the payroll. And what is the reward fee to share it, as you wish, at the beam? Are farmers paying the reward fee or not? Will you relieve them of the ERT's reward fee after you put them in VAT? Oh, no. So they will also pay VAT and the reward fee for you to say that you are making companies and that you pay 50m euros wages in times of crisis and memorial. Well, you want to limit the right to information. You want to censorship at source and inform the roots. Constantly engage in misinformation and disinformation, and in reality you are making your own midterm oligarchy, at the same time claiming that you are hitting the complication. Become the wheelmen of intertwining. You think you'll make fun of the people. Do you think you'll tell the people - how do you imagine? - "Okay, we did not give a tax that we promised, we did not abolish HPAI, we did not avoid increasing VAT, we did not pay a minimum wage to 751 euros, we will not give a third pension in December, we will eliminate supplementary pensions. We put VAT on education, you will pay taxes even to breathe, but don't worry, you will eat cannabis, we will fight the bad guys." And you think that the people will forget all this and say 'they are fighting a great battle, let me starve, I will eat canalarchs, just as long as SYRIZA and ANEL hit the bad guys'. Is that what you will tell the farmers? "We will tax the subsidies from the first euro, we have uploaded VAT and taxes, we have put you in a 100% tax deposit, we have tripled the contributions to the OGA, we have kept the ENPIA and all this, but come on, don't worry, we are fighting the intertwiners." And then you'll play with permissions, and at the same time you'll tell the people that you're the preachers of interacting. And I shall end with that, Mr President. First of all, remember that this law will not apply even here. Under no regime has any Minister ever shared something that he is not entitled to share under any democratic regime. This happened in other times, or now in the case of Chaves, who, I remind you, forced private channels to pass on their speeches and once one channel only put it down, it closed. Look, no matter what you do, no matter how much you try to mislead the people, it's time to pay for your lies, because those fairy tales you said so long it's time to pay for them. As for the fairy tale you picked now, there's no dragon. And if he's got a dragon, he's the one who's gonna try to manipulate to have a connection with your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u393	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really wonder when the government will finally follow a formal process of drafting a bill according to Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Because in the case of today's bill, everything is becoming extremely pressing, at the expense of the substance and therefore of the quality of the dialogue, which would be in everyone's interests and, above all, of the objective information of the citizens, for which you are supposed to be so much cut. You brought the bill on institutionalising the television scene suddenly on Monday evening, and you decided on an irrational acceleration of the process, which is not related to Memorandum obligations or to some other obvious reasons. Of course, those reasons which are not obvious to us for you to be clear and targeted. They may be communists, which is what you are accustomed to, and which relates to your usual propaganda policy, in the well-known context of citizens' misinformation at the expense of revealing your real works. Soon, and be sure of that, despite the communal distortion of so many serious issues, you will be faced with the reality, with all the lies on which you have built your policy all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the question of the resolution of the television landscape has been a key issue in public dialogue for many years. No one has doubted that there is a need for a serious institutional response to the problems. In addition, a number of regulatory instruments were adopted to the governments of the New Democracy in the previous years which were dealing with the main issues of the broadcasting landscape. On the basis of this position, we have waited for you to be more serious and more dissatisfied. Obviously these, along with the koruna on interlocutory, are pleasant words, because in practice what you are doing is bringing in a problematic, incomplete bill, which could have been prepared at another time, many decades back when the technological data was completely different from what is currently happening. The pluralism, the objective transmission of information and news, the social mission of television is good words that we have heard all this time, because you have again in practice done other things. You have also proved that in the case of ERT. It is clear that you want a state-controlled television and not a public independent and multi-speaking television. Today's bill does not even ensure the minimums of what the Prime Minister and your officials have presented in the previous period. In practice, it circumvents pluralism, by imposing controlled, limited channels that will be licensed, without providing a minimum of the conditions. In 2015, when, throughout Europe and internationally, the pluralism of television activities is for granted, we are limiting it here. That is the huge originality of SYRIZA. While the number of channels can be regulated as the rules of the free market require, even though Mr Papapas just said to us that these powers are uncontrolled, you decide the opposite. And we wonder why? You want to manipulate? Do you want to rule out? However, the only thing that is certain is that you do not want to regulate the market, or rather - to be precise - want to regulate it with your own opaque aims, within the limits of the Constitution and within the limits of legality. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also works backwards. The technology allows the television programme to be transported in other alternative ways, for example online or satellite television. Why are you doing what you're ignoring? The bill produces ambiguity on the television field in the tendering process for content providers. Digital technology has changed all the data. You must know and have adapted it to reality rather than to legislate with your mind in decades past, decades that remind us all of the deposition of the state monopoly. Because this bill supports the state monopoly. It is obvious that ERT is being enforced, particularly in the field of information. With the bill you set a maximum working limit for information channels, and even the change made with the legislative improvements to regional channels providing for a joint ministerial decision, so even more vague landscape, is still not in the right direction. The draft law strengthens unfair competition between terrestrial digital information and alternative distribution platforms, and at this point also raises many questions about the government's intentions, motives and objectives. Many questions arise, of course, and also the granting of legislative authorisation to the PSE to carry out the licence by auction, when there is no President either. Really, how do you invoke the PSE when you know it's weakened and because of your mistakes? Is there a plan here that you're still not revealing? Is there any plan why there is no corresponding authorization for radio stations? We have said, Mr President-in-Office, that many unanswered questions, so much that you obviously leave us no room for support, as you have already asked, to be supported by a State Secretary with over-optimism. This role is to be played by Mr Pappas for himself, because by decision of the Minister, who is also a political leader of the General Secretariat of Information, the number of auctioned licences, providers, contents of national and regional scope for at least 10 years will be defined as well as the price of opening by a joint decision of the Minister with the Minister for Finance. And not just that. It assumes broad responsibilities outside the borders, aiming at becoming both a verifier of the country's image and abroad, the ruling of the government's communication policy inside and outside Greece. The sovereign, in other words, of the government propaganda. What really is the place on that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? The new offices will be autonomous? Will they make foreign policy? Will the Minister of State eventually be a deputy minister to develop the country's foreign policy? These, ladies and gentlemen, are particularly dangerous things that need a direct, clear answer. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, as shown by the above arguments, does not provide modern solutions for regulating the broadcasting landscape on the basis of the principles of equality, transparency, pluralism and pluralism. Unfortunately, it did not rely on an honest dialogue with all the parties involved. It is not a serious or credible proposal to address issues relating to the regularisation of the television scenery. It is mainly confined to an effort by the government to monitor the television scene completely in a non-transparent manner, by cancelling and distorting free and healthy competition, even while not even respecting the acquis communautaire. For all these reasons, we cannot vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u394	The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u395	Mr President, won't a parliamentary representative and a Member speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u396	That's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, we are, in fact, dealing with five very big issues of the democratic organisation of our state and state: the process of licensing broadcasters, the provision of a digital signal throughout Greece - because in 2015 we do not have a digital signal everywhere - the functioning in a transparent and efficient way of telecommunications and the competent regulator - which also has serious problems in its effective operation - the establishment of the Communication Policy Council and the National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Research and, of course, the operation and creation of the internet media registry and I would say to a very large extent the fight against working-age on the Internet. We are talking about a very important issue, therefore, of a democratic organisation in our state, after three months of public dialogue on this issue, and I am of course asking, of course, whether there was no dialogue here. There was a public consultation at the opengou.gr for at least one month for this bill. There was a strong debate during the election period and, of course, this was a fundamental commitment. There was a discussion of the political leaders here in Parliament, during the programming statements and last week there was an announcement from the Prime Minister, as well as an invitation from the Chief of Officer of Anti-Population and the Chief of the River to put the matter in the House. So with full maturity and full dialogue, an important issue that creates a democratic event in our country is entering Parliament's debate. Why, though, is this so important? Ladies and gentlemen, we have understood something the Constitution wrote in our country, but I do not know if we understood it. The last citizen of our country felt that information was an important democratic asset and that is not something that should be considered even today, in 2015. Because in the past twenty-five years, we have experienced significant violations of this democratic good, we have all experienced attacks instead of information, terrorism and information, manipulation rather than information. The value of today's debate is that we have the possibility, just one month after the elections, and after significant legislative work - last week we spent a multi-brand plan - to discuss a matter of constitutional interest. From the Constitution the broadcasting of a television signal and the operation of broadcasting stations is a matter of public interest and has repeatedly been involved in political analysis and public opinion. Our debate goes beyond the simple issues of the equality of citizens that characterise the Left throughout its legislative function. Because the operation of television and television channels is also about knowledge, about culture, about education, about culture, about the morality of our people, and even about the broadcast of the image of the Greek state towards the world, towards the whole world. In SYRIZA’s view, overturning the status of the uncontrolled operation of television channels and introducing rules of democratic, effective control on television broadcasts was a key element in the election announcements and commitments. I would say that it is very satisfying for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, it is a terrible thing for us that so soon and so effectively this bill comes to become a state law. Because it is an integral part of the democratic reform of our country, the democratic reconstruction of our country, because the functioning of the channels and the intervention of the state with transparency, with equal status in the channels is an effective proof that we are interrupting corruption, interrupting the strife and inspiring the entire society and inspiring the citizen to get rid of micro-corruption and dependency, walking and living freely, working honestly and claiming the sweat of his work, and doing this to his livelihood and his family. This whole regime of interlocutory, great and small dependency, from the channels to the waste bin in front of someone's house, had led to a humiliation of the ethos, hope, of the right in our country and caused a great deal of delay in real product production, real progress, real growth. For these reasons it is much more important to rebuild the state, to restore democracy, because growth, work, progress, the future and justice depend both on the functioning of the culture and on the functioning of the state. However, the area of television frequencies and emissions, the channels, as the world knows, had been underestimated - I would say - consciously from the political leaderships of recent years and had come out of the public space debate. It was not considered the channels and television broadcasts of public space and public good, even though the Constitution makes it clear that they are such. Of course, this was very much in line with the Memorandum of Understanding which the parties to the bi-party have so far had. By dismantling all the operating structures of society, the economy, the administration, the control, the quality of our lives, they easily gave the channel space to partners, mediators, canalarchs and journalists who were serving the same direction, in violation of their ethics. What was the situation? Is it secret there's been no license so far? Is it secret that there were inappropriate laws from the mid-90s to the law of the main shareholder? Is it secret that there was a vicious circle of dependency in this entire system of power, which was half part of politics and the rest of the media? How did the story of private TV start? We opened a window for our friends to get in. We did them a favor. The whole place was suddenly occupied by all those who had an interest in the large public procurement contracts and the television media became the property of the public procurement stakeholders. Suddenly, the power gained by the information, to enter the living room of any Greek and to shape the conditions of his life and public opinion, reversed dependence and instead of depending the canalarchs on the politicians who opened the door, the politicians depended on the canalarchs. At the same time, the owners themselves of the means of production and of the contracts, all these state-owned people - because they are not a healthy competitive private sector that can compete in Europe equally with the other professionals, which we would like for our own production class - all these state-owned people were also pushing the workers on the channels, violating ethics and consciences in order to serve the same purpose, direction, guidance, and the riding of public opinion in the interests of the same interests. An interdependence, therefore, "beyond keeping you up to the mountain". But they weren't climbing the mountain. They took Greece down to the swamp in the gutter. They lowered political standards and political values, because only in this way could they survive politically, by taking down the standards with micro-services and micro-sfetti, but also terror. Every afternoon in everyone's homes, the horror came in. What do we see happening lately in the same environment? Tax obligations didn't exist. A person’s decision extended the obligation to pay tax for a year. It's the D.A. thing. A person took the decision. He broke the law. The channels don't pay taxes. Do television ads pay taxes? Oh, no. The government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks had to come to pay tax on television advertising.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u398	The Minister said they were paying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u399	Are they paying for the transmission fee? They went to court against the Minister's decision to be forced to pay emission fees. None of this happened in Greece of the 21st century. Did at least the money collected went to the workers? Medium age and working conditions within the channels, but a competition took place. Didn't the representative of the New Democracy tell us before? Let me read from the committee minutes what has happened. One comes down to a auction contest and finds against him as a competitor, as a network provider, a consortium of six customers that he should have. The content providers made the company get the network contest. "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks." Second, within eighty days the new investor had to do what DIGEA did in four years and compete with the tender. Third, if only one of us went to the contest, he wouldn't give a discount. He took the starting price, the one that the state had set to give to the system he had been serving until then. Also, the Polytechnic and the University of Piraeus carried out a study of two hundred and seventy - five emission points. Within twelve days, the two hundred and seventy - five emission points that had to be installed became one hundred and fifty - six emission points. This is the competition, with a contestor who was the broadcasters. Nice competition, clean, beautiful world morally faked! Of course, then, we oblige local government to pay "DIGEA", because they do not see the villages of the Prefecture of Thessaloniki, let alone the Cyclades, Evros, Laconia or the Ioannina. They don't see the border, they don't have digital access. That was the result. No competition, preferential conditions, public costs to the detriment of the public benefit. Of course, this has been very nicely combined with ERT's black. We're already shutting down ERT because it can get into competition. He can get into the contest. Not even the private sector has the right to compete. Is that the nice free competition of the private sector and the free market? Is that him? Is that the dream of the private economy fans? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I am going to need some time from my second speech, Mr President. Of course we can't forget what happened. The government has destroyed a part of the public sector so that it does not compete with the private sector, which has ratified and multiplyed its own power. That is what was done with the ERT and DIGEA scandal. And it is a scandal that must go to the beginning of the law, it cannot remain just in political dialogue. Because he continued, if you like, the game. He continued with the intimidation of the people in the elections, with the intimidation of the people in the referendum, by the fact that we have to leave our country. Many Greek children left because the channels terrorize young scientists every night and convince them that they cannot produce in their homes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u400	Oh, that's why they're gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u401	And we must return this hope to the Greek people. And all this has to change. To tell you the truth last week by listening to the Chief of Officerial Responsibility calling on the TV channels debate I thought there would be a proposal for a debate on the need for authorisation. But we still don't understand. Does the Qualified Opposition propose that a framework should be established for the licensing of competitions on its own terms? And we'll hear them her own terms. Is he suggesting? Do we have to set a framework for the TV broadcast process? Let us hear it, ladies and gentlemen, and listen to your terms, because if you think there is a framework in the Far-West jungle of the twenty-five years of uncontrolled operation, then the Greek people have done very well and put you on the sidelines. Because it is a constitutional obligation to have an authorisation. It's a democratic obligation. It has been decided by the Council of State since '97. We've been implementing JCC decisions since 1997. And at the same time we ensure something very simple: that Greek citizens in the region, on the border, can watch television, can be informed. Why is the Greek region excluded, the possibility of decentralisation, regional democracy because of the system of interlocutory and agreement with the canalarchs you have set up? That was the state of anarchy. For twenty-five years this has been happening. And that, if you want, was the democratic right. At the Monopoly of Thessaloniki, the 2nd Region of Thessaloniki, they don't get a digital channel. But also in Folegandros, my mother's homeland, they don't get a digital channel. In Gadus I know they don't get a digital channel, but in Jumerka another colleague told me they don't get a digital channel. This is the democracy we have today! In our proposal, ladies and gentlemen, the principles of independence and regulation are strengthened - and everyone is responsible for its actions. No one's empty of control. We all have to apologise and we all have to deal with transparency. A complete distinction is made between the content provider and the network provider. There are procedural and substantive guarantees for a modern rule of law. There are blockages now and inconsistently, because that is what the constitutional legislature imposes. And there is an avoidance of monopolistic exploitation and manipulation. Three things I would like to say in the last minute. The employment of professionals in the television area, their professional rights, are of interest to us. We want to guard them, organise them and ensure them. Secondly, the regional operation of television. Regional channels are not a monopoly function, they are not economic forms of competition, interlocutory and interests. There must be arrangements to allow voice in the region, breath in the region and the work of journalists and technicians in the region. And third issue is municipal TV. There should be arrangements, interventions to ensure that this form of democracy, local government, is able, as should the state, to provide, inform, feed local development and not be subject to the rules of the economy and the profits of the state. We, Mr Ausgeakis - of course, are not here - because you have put the question 'Where are we', we have taken responsibility. When you left the summits in 2014, because you were Europe's black sheep, we knew the lot would come to us. We weren't afraid of responsibility, and we took it. And in the referendum we spoke clearly and in the agreement we made it for the benefit of the country. You did not take responsibility for the first time in December 2014, the second time you voted in the summer and now you do not remember what you voted for, but today for the third time you avoid taking responsibility for conflicting with your old past. You don't take the responsibility of colluding with the complication that you've been uprooting for so many years. We have one condition in place to compose here in this Chamber: what we plan to be transparent, fair, pluralistic, decentralised and effective.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u402	Colleague, how long does one minute last?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u403	Wait a minute, yes, yes! I think I'm taking my time. The vote on the bill, in our view, may mean that some people did not forget the "black" of the ERT, we continue on the same path. We after restoring the ERT function, will also undertake to clean up the television scenery. We have decided that this place needs to be changed. We have decided that no one can claim to be more equal than the other. Every citizen must feel equal to every individual, every Member of Parliament, every businessman. Transparency in politics and the democratic organisation of our state will also fuel the economy and growth and the future. That is why we are voting in favour and we support the channel bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u404	Minister Spirtzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u405	Won't they change with the MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u406	Mr President, it is 20.20 seconds and fewer than eight Members have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u407	If that is the case, then tell us when to come and vote. We don't have to wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u408	Wait a minute. You're right to protest, but the Minister has taken him down before the Step. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u409	If a Member still has to speak from New Democracy, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u410	Go ahead. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u411	Good, I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u412	Minister, you have the floor. Keep going. Ladies and gentlemen, we are wasting time now. Please! You know the Rules of Procedure very well. There is an attempt in the context of the consent to speak more Members. You're right to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u413	Switch!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u414	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u415	You'll be informed of a lot of things you don't know. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's draft law, the government and the parties that support it demonstrates that despite the problems, despite adversity, we are firmly committed to policies that we have committed to the Greek people. We remain firmly committed to transparency, social justice and the protection of the public interest. We are firmly committed to policies for the dismantling of the political system by the media and the economic system. We understand the responses of the parties involved. We do not understand, however, either the Greek people, because the parties, in particular the political opposition party, which recently governed the country and for many decades, did not contribute to the improvement of the government's effort and to the safeguarding of our democracy. A few years ago the current President of the Republic, Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulou, as the Minister responsible, recommended the draft law for the main shareholder. The then Civic Opposition did not support it, and there were many well-meaners who have pushed everywhere to suspend a serious step of transparency. Today, after decades, it becomes the same. This time, however, the draft law will not fall, no matter how hard it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u416	Why? How?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u417	We call on the historic memory of the New Democracy and the rest of the opposition parties to stop this tactic, to attempt as a political system to mature, to structure institutions and procedures that do not allow for the phenomena that have made politics in our country so many years. I have heard both the committees and today criticism of the draft law. In fact, my colleague, Mr Augias, accused me of attempting to intimidate the EU T.T.A. I have to inform Parliament and the Greek people of my view about the role played by the regulators in our country, which are not constitutionally regulated, but act as independent authorities with administrative and financial self-sufficiency such as the EU T.T... These authorities are intended - with independence and impartiality - to regulate the market. Theoretically. Unfortunately, however, in our country many of these regulators have acted as a means of bypassing the constitutionally distinguished powers provided for in our Constitution. of the executive, legislative and judicial authority. They have acted as bodies to circumvent transparency procedures, control mechanisms, higher courts and finally as bodies to enforce and serve other interests than the public interest, the national interest and the rights of every citizen. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not say air words. We'll prove that by showing what E.T.T.'s done so far. with the legislative framework you have put in, in good cooperation with the Samara Government. Step by step - government decisions by the Samara government and E.T.T. They have brought us to absolute distortion, to absolute opacity in private monopolies. First act. Common ministerial decision on the frequency map. It is signed by two Ministers of the New Democracy. On 5 October 2012, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Networks has opened a tender. He commissioned a study, which was completed and calculated two hundred and seventy-five emission points. The study was prepared by the National Technical University and the University of Piraeus. A hundred and fifty - six emission points were predicted in the CSR publication. Although there is, I'm filing it in the Minutes for you to know what's going on. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We've been through a lot of research at the Ministry. We didn't find any other study. The Services of the Ministry received the study of the National Technical University and the University of Piraeus and the CYA published another thing. The consequence was that all the border regions could not watch Greek television - and not only - and this is a question of democracy but also a national issue. Second result. A much smaller investment for the company that would become a network provider. At this stage, in the first drama, at the first stage of the drama, the then Secretary-General for Telecommunications had a consultant who helped to modify the study, without, of course, the assistance of the Services, Mr Papaulakis. At the same time Mr Papaulakis was also a member of the Plenary Assembly of the independent EET. Today he is Vice President of the E.T.T. The then Vice-President of the E.T.T. He is today the other Vice-President except Mr Papaulakis. And another advisor also Minister of the New Democracy, not to mention names, is a member of the E.T.T.'s plenary today of this Independent Authority. The second act of the drama, 27 August 2013. The plenary session of the independent E.T.T., in full composition - the previous, not today - decides: "Taking into account the will of the State, as reflected in points 1 and 7 of the relevant letter from the Secretary-General for Telecommunications and Post of the Sub-Municipal Post. E.E.T. 22468/22-5-2013), we do not insist on the expressed view of the plenary that at least two licences should be issued for the development of a national coverage digital terrestrial network." I'm putting this in the Minutes too. They're official records of the E.T.T. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] This independent authority is not ashamed. It writes it in practice, it's fine! It's independent. So he changed the decision. Instead of there being two network providers, one has been allowed to exist. Third act of the great drama - we have all experienced it - June 11, 2013, number 1414: "Following the public operation of Greek Radio and Television" - do not forget the law - "Black" to ERT, that is. I'm tabling the relevant FEK for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, I give you a signed report from Mr Stavros Kabouris - he has the elements of the man inside - which I read: ‘To each competent authority for each lawful use’. On June 11, 2013, I had a service as an ERT employee at the radio broadcasting centre together with a colleague. For about 22.00' - 22.30' I understood a group of about thirty - forty policemen entering the site and dispersed in all the apartments of the center's transmission. I, with my colleague, remained in the office until a major politically dressed person asked us to tell him where the channel transmitter is located 44, i.e. the broadcaster of the ERT programme. We asked whether there was a public document or a prosecutor's order and refused to point the place out, because they did not mention something like that. Then the citizen himself, along with the police officers, climbed the stairs and headed the upper floor where the digital transmitters were installed. We then noted from the indication of the office's album that television transmitters had been interrupted, i.e. the ERT signal was no longer working. Immediately afterward, the police forces asked us to leave the room and accompanied us with two patrol cars in Athens..."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u418	What's that, Minister? Someone's diary?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u419	"The next day, we found that this citizen was the member of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts Mr Nikolaos Papaulakis." Take that for the Minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u420	And you're going to increase the tickets, that's why you're saying that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u421	Yes, your tickets were folding! Your ten minutes were folding!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u422	Mrs. Vuldesis, you're not at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u423	You will tell them "pay tickets and eat Papaulakis".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u424	I ask, Mrs Voutis, in what capacity did Mr Papaulakis go with the police throwing 'black' to the ERT. As adviser to the Secretary-General? As a member of the independent E.E.T.T.Huh? There weren't any servicemen? Wasn't there anything in this country? Ladies and gentlemen, those of us who were at the ERT courtyard on that night, either with our natural presence or with our hearts, stood against an act of totalitarianism, a political decision foreign to Greece and the Greeks, foreign to Europe, foreign to democracy. We understood why much later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u425	Paying Papaulakis the ticket.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u426	Yesterday we learned that the programs for the systems of people with visual problems and hearing, while ERT was closed, were lost. They're lost because they're forming on computer discs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u427	And where do you know it wasn't during the occupation? Who are you complaining to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u428	What's the behavior of ERT's fortune, Mrs. Vultisis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u429	Wait a minute, Minister. Mrs. Vulture, please! You used the name of Goebbels four times and no one interrupted you! Listen. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u430	The fourth act of the programme, December 2013. A competition for the network provider. Participating in the competition one. Participating in the consultation twenty-six. ERT's closed. Random.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u431	Are you denounced? Did the occupants do it? Call the D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u432	One contestant offered an offer for the four multipliers of a pan-Hellenic broadcast. Two additives were awarded to the starting price because the conditions of the regional channels tender were provided for. Two binding terms of the contract were converted into the contract, the technology model and the time of implementation of the contract. I'll let you know that E.T.T. does not give the computer files - we haven't sent them to us - of the two techno-economic models. I'll let you know that E.T.T. as Regulatory Authority, which regulates the market implements competitions, it has no control over them. I inform you that if a service were to carry out such a tender, if there was a director who signed such a tender, it would be five to six other officials, from the technical board - let us say - if it were at the Ministry, from the Independent Authority for Public Contracts, from the Court of Auditors, etc. The independent E.E.T.T. as an institution, not as persons, where is it controlled? Is it God’s service? It is certainly not people's mercy, it is transparent, it is in the public interest. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4070- Minister was Mr Vorides - it prohibits the network provider from being a content provider. In the correspondence we had with the E.T.T. he responds - I will testify, because he has too many revelations, the responses of the ETF, not ours - that he is not legitimate to exclude this candidate, because he does - he says - the network provider is a different legal person from the content providers. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned correspondence, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We ask the New Democracy - Mr Vorides is unfortunately not here, Mrs Vulture was a Government spokesman, so she will know - what was the spirit of the legislator. Would it be a network provider a pan-Hellenic channel, or would everyone get together to do another company?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u433	Somebody do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u434	Not to tell us. You legislated then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u435	Why didn't others come?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u436	And what does it matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u437	And in another place...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u438	I don't know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u439	It's okay, you'll get it, you'll read it, and you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u440	Do we have debate downstairs in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u441	Take and that's enough answers will study them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u442	The Minister quickly learned, changing party learns.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u443	Too fast! But most importantly, why don't you ask for the E.T.T.'s mail? with the Ministry, that makes me impression - the letter of 31-07-2015 - E.T.T. in my question, which reads: 'The file of the contest'...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u444	The Minister quickly found out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u445	Listen, Mrs. Vulture, you'll find out...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u446	Changing a party, the Minister quickly learned! Then you guys were in PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u447	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u448	E.T.T. He says it, I don't say it. She's answering questions I asked her. "The tender file," says the E.T., "was not submitted for pre-contractual audit by the Court of Auditors, since this was not provided for in the contract notice". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Parliament has many legal, engineer, economists. If a minister, a commander, a district officer, a mayor followed such procedures, you know where it would be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u449	Weren't you at the TE back then? Why don't you talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u450	I'm asking you to tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u451	Minister, do not give interactive time to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u452	Mr. Aggenakis accused me of attempting to terrorise the EU T.T.A., of this independent authority. I believe that those who have proposed these people should ask for their resignation. We are not deceiving the independent authorities. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is a government and I also wish for a political system that has been in another era with other features in other ways. We are trying and calling on all the wings of Parliament and we also welcome the decision on the principle of Potami, and we hope that the PASOK will hold such a stand and call on you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u453	Put a perfect one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u454	I shall conclude, Mr President, if you please, because it was a presentation. I need three more minutes. We must all fight together for rationalisation, transparency, public interest protection, make the independent authorities and regulatory authorities, in fact, independent and regulatory, and not by name, break the private monopolies so that ERT does not pay EUR 2.2 million a year, so that regional stations do not mourn, and have sustainability. You requested a technological study if the investment of the ‘ERT-net’ envisaged to be a network provider comes out. Today, ERT makes a budget contest for the two multipliers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u455	Marble leaves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u456	And she pays 2.2 million a year at DIGEA for her own needs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u457	How much "pay" though!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u458	I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u459	$50 million a year!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u460	Do you want a special study to understand that it's coming out? What else do you want? Special study do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u461	Babe, cut off the farmers and give them away!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u462	You are accusing us of opacity and supremacy with the relevant Minister of State. In fact, we have shown the mood for understanding and converging to put a line in control of the political world from the country's economic system, not for the return. There are eight multipliers in total. Four high-resolution stations can be transmitted from each multiplier. It's a limited number. We are talking about the pan-Hellenic channels, but we also have the thematically pan-Hellenic channels that we want to have and are described in the draft law. Frequency is therefore limited throughout the planet and a rare and valuable resource, and the Minister of State will adopt the ministerial decision on the number of channels and the starting price. The competition will be open, it will be public, it will be bidding and it will be conducted by the PSE. I'm asking you. How will the Minister affect the contest? I really want to figure it out. Is he going into the files? Nikos Pappas is, he's not a magician. How will a new arrangement be made, with an open voyage, when he gets the license, when he gives more money?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u463	You know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u464	How will the new arrangement be built up when there are regular permits and there will be no temporary ones, so that there will be a balance between the Minister and the canalarchs? You're talking about the starting price who's gonna set it. Who's gonna appoint her? Aren't the government going to define it? Are we not committed to what revenue should we have? Does the government not have political responsibility and the rest of the responsibility? Does the PSE have that responsibility? Unfortunately, Mr. Varvitsiotis left. You'll let him know. As you can see, the canalarchs will not be intimidated by us, by these provisions. Don't worry. There is a lot of fuss about the letters sent by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u465	With this to complete, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u466	I still have two things. There have been reports from the people affected. The institutions of the European Commission, as they have said, are asking questions about the reports that have been made. Why don't you tell the accedings who might have informed you what they said? The European Commission has made a communication and says that 'the exchange of views between the Commission services and the national authorities is something that continues'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u467	Give it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u468	I'll give it to you. Since it's published. It is Briefing of the European Commission. You got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u469	That's not what we're asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u470	All right, all right. Where have you seen the complaints made by the European Commission? You're telling us we're hitting the EU T.T.A.'s independence. Because we want the President and the two Vice-Presidents to become full-time and full-time? Because, instead of a presidential decree, we brought the disciplinary framework to be discussed in Parliament? I'm presenting the presidential decree to you. This presidential decree is a disgrace. It's three rows, marked in yellow color. It's the disciplinary framework that you had foreseen for E.T.T. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because we amplify the incompatibilities and place bans for after someone leaves the E.T.T., doesn't go and work where they handled the cases before? Because we're strengthening transparency? Where it is established that the E.E.T.T. Does it lose its independence, its self-interest, economic and administrative? Just the E.T.T. She'll stop being a black box for her things. The party's over and everyone will take responsibility. The regulatory authority cannot be a licensing authority for antennas, competitions and no controls, to do what I presented to you just before. The draft law lays down a register of professions, which puts a class in the professions of people working in the channels. The draft law on permits and projects will provide for the authorisations of antennas. The regulatory authority cannot also be an authorisation authority for mobile telephony antennas. Of course there will be soon - because you asked - and a draft law on antenna parks. As far as radio is concerned, there is no Community directive on compulsory switchover to the digital age. It has been commissioned by the Ministry, which is completed, for the map of frequencies. And here we will have two maps, not more and fewer broadcasts, such as television. We'll have a map for digital radio and one for analogue because it's allowed. I conclude with something that I think we should discuss, because there are political differences. There are two perceptions that there will be a large number of channels and that the market will regulate what will happen. That's a neoliberal concept. As many years as we have had this perception, we have been applying it, many - not to say most - television stations are in deficit. Why are they kept? We all know why they're kept. So even in your perception, it doesn't thrive on the model, it doesn't work the market, it doesn't work. Others are the purposes that keep these channels. The smallest number of channels means whether or not sustainable and healthy market. We are in fact proving the effort to widen the tide of the political system. We have tabled legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u471	Minister, except ineffective, I'm getting tedious.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u472	I'm done. You'll see them. What we have committed more than what we have committed is inside. I do not present them because the President is right. I conclude by that we, in spite of adversity, will implement our commitments, implement social justice policies, defend the honour, dignity and independence of the political system from the economic system of the country and shield our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u473	Mr Karaoglou has the floor, and then Mr Papachristopoulos, whom we have wronged, even though he is the first to respect religious reverence every year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u474	Mr President, I request the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u475	Mr Karaoglu has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u476	A question about the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u477	No, after that. You facilitate the process, Mr. Augenakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u478	Now he's gonna talk. With the permission of this House and Mr Karaoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u479	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u480	Just one question, Minister: Apart from these improvements, will there be any other on your part? Are there others about your ministry? More specifically, on Article 21, which is a great deal of talk which, in our view, is a purely photographic provision, you have not said anything. If you have something to say, say it now, it's important to have a conversation about all the improvements that you've made. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u481	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u482	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u483	You're saying it's a photographic device. For God's sake! Here I have tables of both "ATITIC MEASURES" and "ERGOSE" and of what they sent me from the Ministry will also be sent from "EGNATIA", but they did not make it possible for them to be exempted from VAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u484	I'm saying another thing. I'm talking about bars.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u485	For bars, no, there's no legislative improvement in Article 21. We believe that road safety applies to all terms and rules. The terms and rules are to exist every thirty, forty kilometers of automotive service stations, such as in the approved studies by the Ministry for concessions. And we said that the concessionaires should move on, build the stations to shut down all the passages. We're in consultation with them. Mr Aygeakis, this arrangement was in the knowledge of the service when it was sent without the political leadership knowing that a letter to close the exit of the country, which meant that the inhabitants of three settlements could not go to their fields without paying tolls. We have a sensitivity to this issue. I don't know if Mr. Pallis is here to testify that he's climbing every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u486	Mr Karaoglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u487	Before you time, Mr President, I would like to have a minute on a point of order and then put my time. I have asked for the floor for a minute and I am entitled to it under the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore like to say that there is a very serious issue in relation to the functioning of the House. The Bureau should proceed as soon as possible to changing Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This time we don't have four parties, as we had in the past, but we have eight parties. Eight parties mean eight parliamentary representatives for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u488	Mr Karaoglu, I think you're wrong with the Bureau at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, I did not personally say about you. I am referring to a question of changing the Rules of Procedure of the House, and I think it is not without them. It's something that needs to be done. I am sure that the President, too, is listening, but you are listening very carefully, we must deal with it. It is an issue that must concern us. We've got eight parties, eight parliamentary representatives, we've started at one hour and it's gone about 21.00.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u490	Your proposal has been heard, Mr. Karaoglu. Proceed to the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u491	We should also look at the issue of time, namely how much each speaks. Because before that, Minister Spirtzis, he had to speak ten minutes, but he spoke twenty-three.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u492	But for now, you're going to eat him like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u493	The President of the House, who should theoretically teach us, should speak ten minutes, but spoke eighteen and so on. So I think we should respect the Rules of Procedure and the time limits it gives to each of us. Otherwise, if you don't want this to happen, then let us know which day and time the vote will take place, come to vote and make a process between you two bits and end the story. Before I come to the bill, I want to say something because I see my dear colleague, Socrates Famello, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA. I believe - because I know him - that he used a particularly heavy expression at the edge of his speech. In other words, he said that the Greek people put New Democracy on the sidelines. Obviously, it was an expression that he said - because I know him - at the edge of his speech and he didn't mean it. Because it is a heavy expression to say that 30% of the Greek people are on the sidelines. And we didn't say that when SYRIZA in 2007 or in 2009 was marginally flirting with 3%. We never said he was on the sidelines. So I imagine - I repeat - it was a wrong expression. I come to the bill, and I would ask you, Mr President, to count on my time, because it has been a point of order. I'm one of the people I've learned to say the figs and the boats. I'm one of those who I think the mistakes of the past should teach us. And on the basis of that logic, I am putting myself in place and saying that the closure of ERT in June 2013, without there being a specific resolution and reopening plan the next day, with other conditions and other specifications, was an error. Nevertheless, this should not be an alibi for the'second time a left-wing government', the government of poverty, overtaxation, the rapid increase in unemployment and deadlocks, which unfortunately wears ideological bumpers and destroys contractively, I would say, the economy, health, education and it is clear that it is putting its mark on now and the good of information. With this perforated bill that we are discussing today in urgent procedure again - really, were you not that a few months ago put the emergency procedure as coup d'état, anti-democrat and all the rest? - attempts in a steadfast way and in a secret way, as no discussion with the relevant bodies was actually preceded, to re-size the pieces of television pie by manipulating the media. In the only way the Left knows, that of the creation of enemies and without any respect for press freedom, but without honesty dialogue, it targetes television stations with various pretexts and attempts to divert society's attention from issues very important, such as the unpleasant and painful measures it imposes, by legislating in structuring, without any social and progressive sign. It aims at television stations which, some time ago, with the permanent, continuous and shameful projection of its executives, turned them into stars, and it proved to be the result that they were finally homogeneous - see Varoufakis. Watch out. I claim that the resolution of the television scene is necessary. However, while carefully studying the bill, I dare say that it is not the government's sincere goal. The imposition of a limited, controlled number of channels that will be licensed is opportune, is anachronistic. It destroys democracy, squeezes the wishing pluralism, significantly restricts television pluralism, controls information, supports the state monopoly, strengthens poorly understood competition, forms a virtual reality and tries to manipulate the Greek people, and at the same time makes the responsible Minister for absolute regulator of the situation and a national canal, since he will be the one to decide on the final number of television licences. We are talking, in essence, about the absolute return to communist regimes that are only found in the North Korean TV scenery. This is obviously the dream and vision of Mr Tsipras and his colleagues for informing our fellow citizens. It seems that after Mrs Savvaidou's conscientious and mental dismissal, she goes on to clarify the television scene in the way she sees it. So there are many and open issues that we need to discuss seriously. One of them has already been mentioned by Mr Michaloliakos, and you should, Minister, because you are from the region and you are very well aware of the issues - to take a position on this issue, namely how to protect national interests from licensing in specific sensitive national areas, as well as whether there are certain criteria or whether you intend to set certain criteria for who will ultimately be owners of regional or national television channels, and especially when these regional channels are in sensitive national areas - and I am referring to Thrace and the eastern Aegean. Another major issue is the future of municipal television stations. I raise this issue, bringing to the plenary session of the Greek Parliament the issue of municipal TV Thessaloniki. With the bill - a trap coming for a vote it is a direct risk of falling "black" on "TV100", on the Thessaloniki channel. According to the government proposal, municipal TV stations will have to operate with a status of public limited companies and not as a scheme of special-purpose municipal companies. In practice, ladies and gentlemen, this means that the possibility of funding from the municipalities is stopped and fatality is led by these stations to a forced lock. This is not only about 'TV100', but also about other municipal channels in the rest of Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This development in terms of our city means that the city's image will be extinguished, that the voice of the local information will be shattered, while hundreds of workers - journalists, technicians and administrative staff - will be added to the long list of unemployment that the city of Thessaloniki already has. In this light, I call on the Government not to go ahead with the equalisation of municipal media with private media, as far as licensing conditions are concerned, because this leads them with mathematical accuracy to maraudism and indulgence. As I also call on my dear government colleagues from the I and II regions to assume their responsibilities, urging them to join forces in order, even at the last minute, to avoid black in 'TV100', the first television medium in the country that broke the monopoly on state television.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u494	Mr Karaoglu, because you are in favour of Members speaking, if you can, be shortened, please. Put an end to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u495	I shall conclude, Mr President. Strengthening the voice of Thessaloniki and highlighting its problems should be a priority for all Members representing it in Parliament, regardless of party and ideology. Thessaloniki cannot withstand the closure of other media. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, when they sign tombstones on municipal TV in Thessaloniki, let them also find the answers to the question that our city society will address them: 'What did you do and where were you when the black fell on 'TV100'? In conclusion, I would like to say that it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy is voting against this bill. It is also obvious that we are not going to follow you in your decision to set up private broadcasting. I have said this since the beginning of my speech and I will repeat it again. This bill marks the end of pluralism and leads to full media manipulation by Mr. Tsipras and his chosen friends. That is why I call on you, even at the last hour, to return to the word and the path of reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u496	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second? I want to say something about the station issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u497	Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u498	There is, ladies and gentlemen, a reasonable question, how can border posts be controlled when they pass into hands which are emitted with some propaganda, which is not ethical. The National Broadcasting Council has many ways of controlling anti-ethical television stations, much more when they are broadcast with propaganda, which is anti-national. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr President. I am around eight months in this Chamber, and I would like to believe that I am one of the most diligent Members, that is, I am a long time in Parliament. Extreme expression I never heard from any party leader about someone else. Sometimes there is a lot of tension and sometimes they are heard, but not by high-ranking executives. And he's made a good impression to me. Three days ago - because I heard about North Korea, about communist regimes, about Goebbels - I experienced this television experience. He was invited to "ET1" as one of the four candidates for the nomination of the Chief of New Democracy. I listened very carefully to him calling the Prime Minister of the country, not once but three times, a political fraud. And a modest - indeed - voicer, who didn't know what to do, smile. That's the answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u501	He must have stolen it from the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u502	It is the answer to how directed the new "ET1" is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u503	Since we're talking about a bill on the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u504	The "German Girls" you forgot?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u505	Mrs. Vuldesis, North Korea is not allowed on vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u506	No, they're allowed, but then...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u507	I've never interrupted anyone. And I have too many objections about what is said. I would therefore like to make the point and remind you: how many channels they have been operating for years. The whole world knows that financially, almost none of this is coming out. None. Obviously, there is another way to work so persistently in eight, nine channels and some local. And you say, "Well, how do they all get out?" at the time when the person responsible had said, "Did they not survive one and a half with two and a half channels?" And they kicked him out. They didn't want to hear more than that. Apparently, there's another way. Let's see what that way is. I'm explaining. I would like to remind you that there was an incredible dance of information directed to the Stock Exchange, where a large part of the Greeks was led to play its properties. Uncontrollably then the channels said that the Stock Exchange reflects the soundness of the country's economy and something like that. It was about six and a half thousand then by incredible companies that didn't exist anywhere, which, uh, I don't want to remind you of. The channels themselves then entered the Stock Exchange and earned infinite money. Of course, it became the greatest redistribution of wealth. It was the first experience of what "free television" meant. That was about '99, if I remember. I would also like to remind you that the fourth power today does not remind either Vlachos, Kokka or Dimitris Lambraki. These people had nothing but a newspaper. And indeed, they were controlling authority. And that's how it should be. And so it should continue to be the fourth power. Where are these today? I have never heard anything, for example, about overpricing the Olympic Games. No television mentioned anything, nowhere was mentioned, except on any marginal channels, in any newspaper you don't count too much. It was then budgeted around 4 to 5 billion and reached over 20. No one ever spoke of the influxes - outflows that were cut by the poor George Sourlas to control them. Why didn't he pick up any channels? We have now reached the Competition Committee with information that six companies have received 80% of the projects for years and have been in agreement with each other. That's not why we heard anything. I mean, do we live in another country? Did anyone forget that the only one who had reacted at that time to the way the licences were granted to the channels were Kostis Stefanopoulos, who still lives? I respect Constantine Mitsotakis, but I think it was his big mistake and he paid for it. A particular canalarch, in fact, said "I will make one million available and I will throw it". And he "slashed him". I would also like to remind you that a PASOK MEP is still alive - he said that there are sectoralities - in Parliament he had said so many times - businessmen and canals. Eight hundred and eight million are the obvious money given to television media without any guarantee. We don't remember that either? And it doesn't get 2% that they never paid. 20% doesn't get in. The rest doesn't go in, the financing of those involved in this company or company. I believe that the end of these people has come. I was surprised by the article of a man I have many disagreements yesterday in the newspaper "Kathimerini", that everything is changing and that tomorrow is another day. I believe she'll be someone else too. The time when the canalarch or banker was taking the politician or the civil servant and saying "you will do that" I think it has gone backwards. This bill, if you ask me, is very diligent. I'd like it to be tighter. Still, I think he puts the right foundations to get in order. It's not a matter - believe me - of laws. I heard, say, carefully the old PASOK leader talking about constitutionality and reminds me of the whole process. It's all the same again. When Prokopis Pavlopoulou brought the main shareholder with the approval of Kostas Karamanlis - please forgive me the popular expression - "she had a door" not only in Greece, but also in Europe. It seems to me that the Members of this party, whose leader at the time and today's President of the Republic recognized that something had to change, today present another person. I welcome the statement from the river that it will first see what it will vote on. I want to believe that PASOK can think about it again. I'd invite New Democracy to see it again. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that Ignasio Ramone in 2002 had written a shocking book, the 'Geopolitan chaos', which he predicted with mathematical accuracy that politics has given entrepreneurs its place in multimedia. Ramone, the old director of the 'MONDE DIPLOMATIQUE', made a complete mention of how policy slowly retreats and not just Greece, which we live in - is done by some entrepreneurs. I believe that at least today, which gives us a great opportunity, a great, unique, historic opportunity - and you forget whether SYRIZA governs and is also based on the Independent Greeks - to go against this attitude, to bring politics back to the fore and businessmen to do what they always have to do. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u509	Before I place myself, I would like to make a comment. I have heard the previous speaker, Mr Karaoglou - and he has no tone of personal reference - referring to an issue that the leader of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Michaliokos, pointed out in his speech earlier this afternoon, as far as regional channels are concerned, particularly those in border areas. Mr Karaoglou mentioned the region of Thrace and the eastern Aegean. He mentioned Mr. Michaloliaco in his honor. But I don't know why he mentioned it, maybe he did it to his own voters. This is another debate. I also heard the Minister's reply, which said that there is a security net, there is the National Broadcasting Council, which has the means to ensure from anti-national propaganda, if you said so. Question: What are these ways? The fines he may have - to add - to the region of Epirus, why is it not just the region of Thrace and the eastern Aegean? Will the Broadcasting Council, then, set the fines to close these television stations that may be propaganda in our own country? We see exactly what propaganda is going on. A little while ago I read online that, in view of a race between Greek and Turkish team, the center of Athens has filled Turkish slogans. Is that therefore the safeguarding of fairness and her - I would say - of order according to national standards, even the centre of the capital? With regard to this draft law, I would like to say that during the past twenty-five years, when the analogue stations started out in a scandalous and graceful way, it was adopted by the regime - and I quote, because there was no difference between New Democracy and PASOK in this twenty-five years, both had the same features of power - a variety of provisions regulating the media area and their licensing. The last law, Mr. It maintained, in the way that it was amended, a legitimate - we would say - regime, which not only covered the administrative inability to respond to its business towards the contractors, but also left the canals, these both blackmailers and blackmailers, completely inconsistent. In this way, therefore, this corrupt leadership proved its great "respect" towards Greek justice, which had repeatedly expressed judgments of the Supreme Courts and in particular the Council of State, which referred to the need to establish rules of operation. Administration has never done anything or - better - continued to mock both the institutions and the state and much more to mock the citizens and to intercede, in the well-known habit of the New Democracy and the PASOK. So there was never a real auction of the frequencies that were, as our Secretary-General pointed out, the property of the Greek people, and the hijacking of frequencies, based on the law of the strongest, that is not only on the law of the jungle, but also on the contrary they found work, since the channel was the head office to get large awards of public works, which the people are still paying and will continue to pay through the tolls, overpricing, mistreats and all those scandals that have never been punished. So the current government, which deals with morality, continues with the same way, that is to say, it gives the licensees essentially to the same canals, reshapes the deck and reshapes it to the same players, who participate on equal terms with others in the new era, in which they are already dominated by the irregular occupation of frequencies, which has given them a reputation and jobs. And despite the fact that they have obtained them without consideration, they have managed to charge them to such an extent that today we are talking about another large private debt hole of hundreds of millions, which nobody says who will pay them, and if any of these companies close down, redundant and workers, what will happen with all these debts, with all that money. So the only thing that manages to bring this bill is to change the colour of the chair that runs the anticorruption orchestra, that is to say transfer it to the 'ethics' of the left - if you like, you put the 'left' in introductorys - which, without any effective control, will be freely interconnected with the media owners for their own natural benefit. And because, Minister, you do not only legislate for yourself but also for all those who sit in this position, you must be particularly well placed to believe that the concentration of power in the hands of the state control mechanism can always be a good thing for the social system, especially when it comes to unscrupulous opportunities and entrepreneurs who do not respect not only their mission, so that they are in fact impartial, but also the Constitution that explicitly demands objectivity and impartiality in the transmission of the news. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take the time of my dentistry. I will not go into the time-consuming economy, in particular Article 14 and 15 of the Constitution, which our Secretary-General, Mr Michaloliakos, analysed. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] But I will say that we have the phenomenon of having an unequal treatment - and I say this to hear it again in this Chamber, and in particular that the Greek people, who know it and a large part of it, trusts us and well, does - the third political power of the country, of the Golden Dawn, both electionally and regardless of elections. That is why I also have the obligation to repeat the words of our Chief and say that it is our honour to exclude the intertwined pimps from the channels. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many holes and many questions, which we should stress on the basis of this draft law. I believe that there is neither responsibility nor planning in this draft law, that the government continues to have a course in the dark with lights closed, as it usually does on many important issues. He's got no programming. I was particularly interested - and I repeat - in Articles 44 and 51 that the amount of operating expenses of the new company cannot be estimated in advance. You have so many advisors that the Greek people pay them and you have the courage to say in a draft law that the amount of expenditure cannot be estimated in advance. So what kind of a draft law is that? The dolls? In conclusion, I would like to make points on issues that need to be stressed. Firstly, what will happen with the existing permits for stations? Will they really be reviewed from a zero basis? Secondly, will the conditions set out in this bill be fulfilled? Because as the operating framework of the channels is configured, the corrupt political system has made it so that it will be forced many channels to close and will do very well. Thirdly, if they close, what about the fines imposed by the National Radio Council? Will they be collected, or will they continue to be collected? Fourthly, the alleged zero-based review procedure should be initiated. So what about the channels that already work? It is not entirely clear whether there will be a re-check of existing permits. Fifthly - and I shall end, Mr President - what about their wonderful loans? They owe hundreds of millions of euros, money from the Greek people, while our homeland is groaning. Also, what about the taxation of channels? In practice, how will the shares, ownership and the safeguards you give for any foreign involvement, as we said at the outset, be controlled by companies in licensing procedures? Because in the past a lot has been done and no one has been interested. So why not strengthen the role of the National Broadcasting Council, but above all its independence and operational autonomy, which should not be appointed by the executive? I would say that on this board, the judiciary should play an active role. This council must be made up of people who have no connection with executive power, legislators, virtue-seekers, or socially-occupied people who are not involved with political things. So the television should work properly. We on the basis, as our speaker said, shall vote against in principle. On Saturday we will report on what articles we will probably continue to vote against or on what articles we shall be voting on. We say in the end whether with this plan you want to create new fireplaces and new canalarchs, your canalarchs, to make sure you stay as strong as possible in power. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u510	Mr Pafilis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u511	There are - and rightly so - too many protests by Members - that I would say all the wings and on the side of the SYRIZA and on the side of the New Democracy - when they will speak. I'm going to tell you that I've forgotten over the past few years what a regular bill discussion procedure means. Everything is either urgent or urgent. So the protest to your parties, which I referred to earlier - and I refer to this wing - did exactly the same and now that SYRIZA does exactly the same. In other words, it comes under the urgency procedure. Why is that? With many twitchings, heavy expressions - and the Prime Minister has announced - we have heard here today 'blocking', 'promotion of pluralism', 'quality television services'. Okay, are you serious? So why is it coming under the urgency procedure? To cover communications, as our rapporteur has said, with a communication diversion of what the people's family lives today, that is, what he pays - which he does not know every day what comes to him - the barbaric measures that the government applies with the agreement of the other parties, who now represent Pontius Pilate and whistle indifferently, as if they did not know what will come with the third memorandum. However, as long as it is trying to cover them, this cannot be done in practice, because, firstly, the Greek people see what is happening to them and, secondly, because what you say or intend - to say at best - they do not actually apply. So let's see, Mr. Minister, the government with the oligarchy, with the canalarchs and the complication? Let's see, with arguments. What are you telling us? If you're messing with those who are responsible, then you're gonna throw them out. They're leaving the media area. Is that what you're gonna do? Of course not. You're gonna kick them out? When you implement this law, who will own the media other than the ERT, which is state? Did the trade unions, professionals, rural clubs, student clubs, women's associations, social organizations? Of course not. They will own them and some new players, of course from the same space and from the same class, capitalists, that is, capitalists, big businessmen. They're going in. Unless they have 7 million warranties to give clubs and everyone else to get in - which is forbidden, of course, you do not want to hear - in the media field. Secondly, will you ensure pluralism on the channels with the bill? So what will change tomorrow with the implementation of the bill? Will we hear about the need to abolish human exploitation, for example, where is the barbaricity of capitalism? Will it be said that those who produce wealth should take it and not be held by others, those who steal wealth, that is, big businessmen? That's what the media will say, Mrs. Caracosta, where are you protesting? Is that what they're gonna say? So the young people or the old ones together, as you tell them, to tell them businessmen - they do their job - will change the whole program and make such ideas? Will the class of power in the media, in other words, kill itself? What are they gonna say? That capitalism objectively, historically - regardless of whether the world has decided or not - has ended and hampered the progress and development of humanity? What would the channels say next day? Will they say that the European Union is a union of big capital, which the world has lived through and which drags it into destruction? Will they say or suck the minds of the world that there is no other way and that you are obliged to live a slave in the 21st century? What are they really going to say about NATO? Will they say anything different than what they all say together? Are they going to say NATO is a murderous organization? They're gonna say that NATO was created when it got a hundred and twenty SS officers, Vermacht and others, by 1961? What are they gonna say? About the interventions he has made at all the lengths and backs of the planet? Or will they strangle from morning to night that it's an organization of peace and security? What are they gonna say? That the people need to organise, massage the trade unions, mass organisations and fight to overthrow this policy? Are they going to say or slander - as far as they are - the struggles - with few exceptions and it is not just a question of journalists - and they will apply the line of their bosses, namely those who possess wealth? Third point, Minister, where are you here, although Mr. Pappas is more responsible, will we have more quality television services? Who are you telling? Honestly, who are you telling? And here to make a distinction: Mr. Pappas was careful. He didn't say such bugs. SYRIZA's rapporteur and Parliamentary spokesman some time ago told us that with this bill we would have another television scene, differently. So what are they gonna do? Will the rings which, anyway, I do not want to comment on, the various Americans, the cultural waste that is projected from everywhere and which will make a quality programme for the Greek people? No one escapes, of course, and they use it as a pretext. This flood, however, which shapes consciences and is not at all accidental, is the very ideology of the bourgeois class that tries to make the world unreasonable and to get used to seeing such garbage. So as long as we live, we're learning here with SYRIZA. In other words, we will have sovereignty of urban ideology. The means of production in a few, monopolies, capital. They'll have the media and we'll have a different landscape. That's a mockery, at least a mockery, not to say a big word. It was also true here. Mr. Lappas isn't here. We've known each other a long time ago. Anyone who controls the mass media, controls culture and politics, etc. That's right. Who will have the media? Even assuming there's quality in ERT, all the rest, all the other orchestra and the relocation that exists, won't it change? Won't it affect culture, politics? There won't be any connection? Let's say one more thing. What he's talking about is complicated, exactly what does it mean? Let's explain it. Who have the mass media? Those who have the industries, the fleet, the shipowners, that is, the banks. They have mass media too. It's what we call pluralism that is disturbing. Isn't that the complication? Is that gonna change? There is a political complication. The political complication, whether or not it is "taken" or not, is objective. It is what order is served by the policy of each party, if it serves the bourgeoisie, those who have the wealth in their hands or if it serves the people. Is this complication going to change? Will government policy change? Since they will have power in their hands. Because we're talking about complication and international models, I'll give you an example. Reagan was an actor. He was a "GENERAL ELECTRIC" advertiser, if I'm not mistaken, in the 1960s. GENERAL ELECTRIC has therefore set a target and has made it President of the United States. Do you want me to tell you more examples from your free world, which you are defending here, and indeed with furiousness? The others always say it. SYRIZA here has come out in front of a few things. I'll tell you later. What is actually going to happen? There's gonna be a redistribution of the pie. That's what's gonna happen. You will be referees of today's and other interests to act in this area. There's an answer, of course. He says, we'll put rules. All right, that's not likely you can't question it. I do not think there will be anyone to question what I said before, because that is the reality. What rules are you going to put on? Transparency. I'll say about transparency. The rules, who are they? That the Minister will give the licenses. He will determine how much it is and how much it takes. That's a rule, actually. So, what's going to happen exactly where he's gonna fix it like that? What's going to come up all of a sudden? What's the new TV scenery? I am speaking in substance and not from a point of view of procedure. I know you agree deep down. The Minister of course and logically - and this is not a charge - will use it, as everyone uses it, to get something, not in their pockets. I mean, have some support, though from support, you're doing well. Support is not what it seems many times. It may seem that they are fighting you, but they are basically supporting you and pushing even more on the channels to quickly implement all these measures. The second issue. We'll know who owns them. Are you sure? No, you don't. Mr. Famelos is gone. Nominalisation exists for companies listed on European Union and OECD stock exchanges. I wanted to respond to the proposal made by Mr Venizelos. I got tempted to take the floor before, but I'll say it now. Which companies are we talking about, are we serious? The whole "SIEMENS" scandal and the invoices made at OTE were made by a leading company, one of the world's best and most reliable companies, who naturally worked for "SIEMENS" and made them three and four times above. Does anyone have credibility in these international companies? [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I also take my dentistry, Madam President, and I will not speak again. Besides, I'm used to it. Therefore, transparency is not guaranteed. I'm gonna go a little further. Let us assume that there will be transparency - which will not exist in it - what will change? We'll know which businessmen have and control the main media. That's not what it's gonna be, is it? To speak practically for people to understand. One more thing to say is that the situation is like this, we cannot and do not want to put it through the system, because this is how it works here, and globally, trying to present aspirin as a medicine for the advanced form of cancer. These things are not done, even if they know. And let's get something else straightened out. The criticism we have made here, on the occasion of this, has nothing to do with the criticism of the other parties. From then on, we are doing it for both the number of licences and for many other things. You know our position. Third matter. Healthy competition, in fact, with warmth. Are you left? Are you on the left? I was listening to Mr Famelos, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA - we do not always have to say names - to tear his clothes. 'We will create healthy and free competition'. Is there healthy competition in capitalism, or is it true that big fish eat the little fish? What's both of it? What healthy competition? Will it compete who with whom? Literally, who will compete with who? The mathematics and monopolies that make glazes at the end, such as the gasoline competition that throws it a minute. And if he drops it, you go to hell with mother, I'll say it like that, so you can get gasoline. And everyone agrees that from down here we don't sell. Such healthy competition! And practically, how will that be expressed? Perhaps, Mr Voridis, they will show the channels 'how the steel would not be like', for example, or will they make series for the October Revolution and the impetus it gave to humanity? Will they do such things in healthy competition? Because, you know, the ideological direction is the same. And I'll tell you something simple. We all see bulletins. It's the same news, isn't it? What "CNN" takes off and gives it worldwide plays all private channels, even state, and even manufactured news. What are you going to do to them? Will you forbid them to play them? Are you making any of this condition that you're not allowed to play like this? We have plenty of such dreadful examples here, and I am now talking about a specific channel, the 'CNN'. Here they were returning to the camps of prisoners who were surrendering and who were rehearsed as businesses in Iraq and elsewhere. They recognized it themselves. We had interventions and you know them: war against Yugoslavia, not to mention more. So what are you going to do with all this, free competition? Are you gonna stop them or have ERT as a counterweight? And I don't want to do any commentary, and Yannis Giokas said, "What are you talking about? Here you dare not open some streets to other issues with ERT. Workers: number and contracts. The fact that they have so many employees doesn't say anything. With what contracts? We will also be tabling an amendment that we are going to make tonight. We talked about it orally. Why do you not accept keeping the collective agreements? And secondly, why don't you put on what it has to have an organogram? Because it may have - there has been an example - four hundred and thirty gardeners and programs coming out on blocks. You know the jungle in the private media area. And here, from this point of view, Mr. Amyras was revealing. Late language tells the truth. What did he say? If, he says, the motage is thirty and a better machine comes out, the businessman will fire one, because that's what, he says, entrepreneurship works. That's capitalism. Technology and technological progress rather than reducing working hours and increasing social time are doing the opposite. It reduces jobs, dismisses the world, and does not reduce working hours. That's exactly what's going to happen on the way. Now I'm talking about how some people think and how they see them and what criticism they make of you. We are making the most of the criticisms, that you must secure the positions and the collective agreements. Finally, let me say our own position. I hear it here, and it's weird. What's the briefing? Social goods or merchandise? What do you say, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u512	Both.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u513	You'll say social good. But, well, are you serious? It's a merchandise. This is a commodity for human organs in capitalism - does the other man sell his kidneys to live - and is not information? This is where trillion interests are played, not billions. And they don't look from these balance sheets. The channels do not only have them to make profits - they may not make anything - but they make multiples from below - or even legally most - of both advertising and a number of other things. And you know what's spreading around the subject of information, so I don't start and say, what they own, what armies are going on, what wealth is coming together, and who's got all this. So everything in capitalism is a commodity and that's how it works. It can't work differently. We say that it is socially good and that is why it cannot belong to private individuals. It must be in public, not in this, of course, but in another public, in another society. Finally, for the National Communication Policy Council, for the embassy-type offices, etc., we want to say this. Our objection is not that it must have such a state. Of course it will. And now it does. You can say 'we're improving it'. The question is what they will do and what they will put forward. For example, the image of Greece. What is the image of Greece? What you were saying at the "Clinton Foundation", that Greece is a country of investment opportunities, "Come on, we have slaves and we have a free thing to give you"? Is that Greece? What will he show abroad? For example, it was heard that Greece is a land of stability in the region. Yes, but at the same time Greece is a NATO country. At the same time, Greece commits and participates in all the exercises that are being carried out by NATO at the moment aimed at more general intervention in the ignition area. So we strongly disagree about what it is going to show as an image, as it says, what the national positions are, that is, which will be put forward. It's the government's own policy. Are they in common? What do we want now in all these joint exercises and in the preparation for the war in the region? What exactly are we looking for? What country of stability? We are not a country of stability in this respect. Stability is in the sense that there is no war right now in Greece. But what exactly are we looking for now as this country? Involve in the next war? When it starts, it will fall into our head, and that is certain, and history proves it. That's exactly what we question and total, closing right in my time, I say that Manolius is changing and putting his clothes on differently. I would also like to say that as far as the criticism we have heard from the previous governments is concerned, we agree. It was worse that way. It wasn't better. A lot has been done at ERT and everywhere and in the competitions and everything else. Because you have also mentioned my name on Article 21, what is happening on the national road is tragic and is at risk of human lives. From Lamia, can you stop even for your physical need, where? In Oinofyta. They closed everything, even the parking lots there. They flew out people who were taking part in this street and one is benefiting from this whole story. That's because we're talking about photographic devices. We are therefore not covered by Article 21, because it is a temporary measure, that is, it gives them an extension of life. Later, they will open up the majesty and shut them down again and actually what will happen? There will be families unemployed and some microprofessionals who are not the rich in history. So, Mr. Augorakis has left - the photograph of seeing it before and now - who is serving.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u514	All right, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u515	I'm done, Madam President. We say that we cannot vote for it. We shall vote 'at present' from this point of view, but not from a different point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u516	Thank you. Mr. Danielle, can we give the floor to a Member?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u517	Yes, I agree, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u518	So Mr. Njimanis has the floor for seven minutes and then Mr. Danellis will speak. As far as I can see, Mr. Njimanis isn't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u519	Go ahead, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u520	Go ahead, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u521	Mr. Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u522	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the second bill of the Government, the second one of the Left, which unfortunately is moving this, as is the previous ones, on the road to the denial of the election speeches and the great reasons Mr Tsipras and his party announced during the election period. For example, they are now saying that with this bill, which enters for discussion in the House, they will succeed in bringing an end to the conflict between the media and politics. We'll talk about this later, though. We regret to note that all this nine-month period of government has broken one down to one of all the election arguments, morally, politically and economically, used by Mr Tsipras to bring his party to power. You are not changing the country, ladies and gentlemen. You do not impose transparency rules. You do not protect the weak, nor do you pay social justice, as one seeks every time one goes up to the Step of the House. As far as your commitment to protecting the weaker social groups is concerned, I would like to remind you that it is disproved daily with the doubling of VAT in the basic types of need and food, with the reduction of even the lower agricultural pensions, with the increase in unemployment of 100 000 unemployed this year, in 2015, as Mr Tsakalots admits in the preliminary draft budget, with the delay of the repayment even of this heating allowance that you have not yet paid to the weaker and you owe it - you are, in fact, reducing it from now on, from the point of view of the bills you have brought - with the characteristic delay in the payment of family allowances paid by the OGA and who expect them and how weak families. Remember what? What can we say? Should we say about the new VAT that you have levied on instructional, medical and other private schools, which, for some ministers, like Mr Philly, is five-and-a-half years old? This primarily puts on the poor who give everything to educate their children and give them some more supplies to have a better future. What do you want me to remind you of? All you remember is '1880'. You don't remember any of the things you've been electorally told twice now. As regards the commitment to support the primary sector, immediately after your rise to the government in January, to support the agricultural sector, you abolished the subsidy for agricultural oil. You raised VAT 23% on supplies, and now even the farmer pays straw with 23% VAT to feed his animals, which of course increases the cost of production. You doubled the income tax and the tax advance. You tripled - at least - contributions to the OGA. This way, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you support the primary sector? If you believe that this is how you support the primary sector, I will tell you that this is how you put tombstones on farmers and farmers and, indeed, on the smallest of them, on the weakest. So do not bring these measures that you are discussing. Remind what? Let me remind you of the fight against tax evasion that you call on every time you go up, which you said you'd find money from fighting tax evasion? In the first nine months, the state's revenues have fallen at least EUR 2 billion in relation to the corresponding nine-month period and EUR 4 billion in relation to interest, while you have upset the world in extra taxes. As far as the funds are concerned, which are EUR 900 million less than last year, you are now coming and you are reducing pensions and nobody knows where they will be coming. You are even bringing taxes into a closed economy, in order to protect and finance a large state in a economy with closed banks, in an economy that you have received in recovery, as Mr Tsakalots admits in his draft and you have put it in a new institutional cycle and in a new downhill with at least 3% recession in the next two years. There is still self-determination, ladies and gentlemen. The collapse of your great words and your promises with today's bill, which is a relegating of the n. 3592/2007 that the New Democracy with Kostas Karamanlis had brought to Parliament. Then, all of you, even you, were opposed to the main shareholder. And you were against it! Relegate that bill. You're refreshing it. You put on some renewal touches. But there is another evil and a little immoral project, because this bill you bring says so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes of my dentistry, Madam President. With this bill you force us to vote for the absolute delegation to the Minister of State of your Government, so that it determines in the due and in the interests of your Government basic elements that guide and guide developments in the media landscape. That's what you're doing. You are not going to make any difference, nor do you impose transparency. Whilst the Minister and the government invoke that he ensures transparency, he essentially defines himself as being solely responsible for identifying, for example, how many licenses of content will be auctioned, without telling us how many, with what starting prices, with what content and much more. You support as a government that you are helping competition when you restrict competition by identifying elements which make it difficult to compete, such as the size of the share capital, officials working on these channels or machines that they should have. Not only do you do this, but, by putting these restrictions, you lead to the closure of dozens of regional channels, and if not the closure that is the most dangerous... [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't smile, ladies and gentlemen, because it's not for laughing. It's for crying what you're doing. Unless he's a cryer, what I see. You lead to the transition of regional channels to the major economic interests, which, ladies and gentlemen, do not need the viability of these channels and the small profit, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u523	Why aren't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u524	They will be used as vehicles - because they have money - for political pressure, Mr President, rapporteur. I repeat, don't smile, because what you're bringing doesn't help fight and end the interlocutory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u525	Tell us why they'll shut down the districts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u526	Do you want me to tell you by denomination what you're doing? The denomination obligation, in accordance with Article 5(4) to the natural person, shall not apply to shares in European stock exchanges and OECD countries. In other words, a canalarch who owes a few dozen or hundreds of millions of dollars here can drive a company from the outside of Europe and come here to get a licence and not repay any of what he owes. That's what you're doing. So, ladies and gentlemen, you are not interested in transparency, neither in competition nor in the impartial and multi-speaking information of the people, as you are referring to. What you are interested in is ensuring that you stay in power by every means. The motto that characterizes you, ladies and gentlemen, is 'the purpose is to justify the means'. But I have to tell you that the deception of the people is slowly revealed. The masks are falling. The light of truth will shine and shine much faster than you expect and think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, too. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u528	Let my colleague, Mrs Cavvadia, speak, and then I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u529	Okay. Well, Mrs. Cavadia has the floor for seven minutes. I want to tell you that it is seventy-five speakers written. I want you to respect time if everyone can talk. Not today. I'm talking Saturday. Come on, Mrs. Cabadia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u530	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder whether those who have been following in the last few days the debate that has been taking place in this House both in the relevant committees and in the media regarding the bill on television licences are really surprised by the high tone and by the absence of serious arguments or of a fundamentalist proposal, even of a legislative text, on the part of the Opposition, although the Prime Minister has repeatedly made it clear that the government intends to bring this bill directly to the vote. The government's desire at last to put order in the anarchist television scene, to impose conditions of transparency and equality, to abolish privileged relations with certain specific business circles, could at last be dealt with as a golden opportunity for the democratisation of the television scene, as a last resort golden opportunity to limit the interactivity in this area over the last few years, an attempt which may be likely to improve, but which is at last being attempted over the past decades. Why is this establishment we want to change and why do we want to change it? I think it is a common place that television and generally media reality suffers and suffers from multiples. Private television, although it first appeared to be a pioneer in logistics, high-training staff, but also entertainment and information facilities, soon showed significant pathogens mainly directed at easy, i.e. cheap entertainment programs, manipulated information and work relationships, which were not for the benefit of workers alone. Even during the times of the rich cows, the role of the channels was clearly in the service of riding public opinion and serving the respective interests of each canal ruler. I believe, however, that the full stripping of their role has taken place with the beginning of the crisis. There are quite a lot of issues in the bill that we could and should discuss, such as the work of journalists, technicians, artists and staff in general, working on television stations, intellectual rights issues, the price of licences - particularly with regard to regional stations - on how television stations can play a role in strengthening domestic artistic production, on how they could be centres for promoting culture, safeguarding pluralism and pluralism and for many more. I think that's what society expects from us. On the contrary, we are forced to discuss with the responsibility of opposition on blurred and irresponsible charges. The Members of the New Democracy and PASOK feel the obvious impossibility to justify their inertia so far but also the tolerance they have shown as power parties in the past, all they do is to demonise supposedly secret government intentions. And on the other hand, newly-built faithful escorts from the Potamian MPs, who are zealously identified with the powers that want to maintain the privileges for the few. Truly, do the Vice-Presidents not know that breaking twenty-five years ago of the public service broadcasting monopoly, discrediting every expectation, has turned into one of the biggest public life wounds? Do the Vice-Presidents not know that the hopes and demands for an independent pluralist information have resulted in a manipulation of information and discriminatory presentation? Do the Vice-Presidents not know that the Greek private channels rather than having cultural broadcasts, instead of showing high-level films and series and instead of strengthening Greek production, have turned into "devils" of efficient lifestyles and shown in multitude repetitions and extremely low-level films? Do the Vice-Presidents not know that the predominant immunity in the area has allowed the non-payment of 1.5% of private television to strengthen domestic film production over the years? Do the Vice-Presidents not know that the prevailing immunity in the television area has allowed channels not to observe in recent years or their obligation to cover 2.5% of their television time with Greek film productions and that even documentaries and certain levels of information broadcasts are a kind of long-disappeared private television? And of course, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, I am very aware of your anxiety about the fact that the ERT is going dynamically into the digital game. Yes, this ERT that you did not hesitate - remember well, June 11, 2013, showed the calendar - to close, just so that it does not participate in the frequency competition and can unnecessarily create the private monopoly of DIGEA with the six pan-Hellenic private channels being - listen, listen! - the shareholders of the sole shareholders at the moment of the digital television provider. Why don't we really talk about this in the House today and in the past days, ladies and gentlemen? Because you're pretending to be ignored because you want to keep silence on blows under the waist, blackmail, mutual services made up over the years of the feedback and maintenance scene of the customer relationships of the bloc. You systematically and deliberately turn the debate elsewhere because you do not want to break - finally - the abstention of the sinner triangle: great economic interests, media and power parties, a abstention that has been weakening the country's public life for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well - I imagine you are also aware - that there are already serious reactions from business groups that directly or indirectly control television stations, and there are threats even to suspending the operation of stations or staff redundancies. In other words, they do not hesitate to use the workers - who I am passing away have already suffered considerable cuts in their wages and their number has fallen considerably - as a means of pressure or as a human shield in order to prevent resolution and accountability efforts. Except the threats will fall into the void. The legality will be applied. This government, our government, is determined to reach the end. No attempt to implement the new legislative framework will be tolerated. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on television stations is a restoration of order and of social demand. But this alone is not enough. The system of manipulation of public opinion and the reversal of reality was created by a number of factors. First, they are the banks that borrowed money with virtual guarantees and many times without collecting anything, making sure they refinance old loans to show the banking information channel. Then there are spectacular measurements and advertising. On several occasions - he revealed it old AGB's public prosecutor's inquiry - channels, advertising, TV and public opinion poll companies interact and interrogate. There is a channel that, with 17% television viewing, always ensured 30% of advertising, while ERT never got its TV percentage on advertising. It is therefore imperative to check - finally - the measuring companies, advertising companies, polling companies and companies, if interact with each other and if finally "Yiannis is buying and Yiannis". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I told you and the committee, and I repeat: it is time for you to decide who you are going to go and who you are going to leave. Although today’s script samples show that you have made your choices for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u531	Thank you, Mrs. Cabadia. Here, Mr Dannelly, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u532	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill, the necessity of which has highlighted and made Potami one of its main objectives, from the very first day it was found in the Greek Parliament. I myself, as a special speaker here in this Chamber, had called on the government with the representative of the relevant Minister, Mr Papa during the debate on the draft law on the reopening of the ERT on 7 April 2015, to put an end to the very great lack of radio frequencies that despairs the political system and increases its unreliability towards the citizens. This is an eagle on the back of the political system. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know how the average citizen feels, he believes that there is a major conflict between the owners of the media - and especially the owners of the television channels - and the country's political staff. The famous triangular relationship of sin between the political system, banks and canalarchs - media owners, is a common belief for the Greek average. It is necessary, in order to regain the relationship of trust between civil servants and citizens, to prove that we are clean. We should start acting on the basis of transparent rules, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore a matter of supreme priority to clarify the landscape and ensure legality and transparency, without retreat to the rule of law and to the acquis communautaire. This twenty-five-year-old regime must end. We must not forget that yellowism, demagogy, populism with its various schools, as expressed by telephony and telephony, is very responsible for the manipulation of public opinion and the proliferation of ethnic coffin. A vulgar who has marked the course and management of the crisis, by all governments, from the beginning of the five stone years ago. This open account does not close by replacing it with a new information manipulation framework. We do not question the good intentions of Mr Papapas, who may, however, be replaced by a Mr Papadopoulos tomorrow. We mustn't create a tsar, a small master. We must not allow the Minister of State to become an absolute player of the broadcasting landscape that controls the licensing game and which today may be good intentions, but no one knows about tomorrow. It is, moreover, the Left, ladies and gentlemen, who know better than anyone that it must not be left to the good intentions of a person, even the most enlightened. It is only through institutional safeguards that we ensure a clean broadcasting landscape. These are the guarantors of transparency and good functioning. A man cannot decide on the number of licences, even if we are in the digital age and not in the analogue era, when there were technical heroism. He cannot decide for himself the exact number of workers at all kinds and any television station. He may not decide for himself the details of the allocation of the programme. He cannot alone decide the price of licences. When all these powers, which should legally belong to the constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities, are gathered on the face of the Minister, it is clear that the apparent objective, namely to change the holders of television licences, to change the landscape, may be a pretext. In other words, they may remain the same on condition, however, that they be transformed into obedient bodies of the Minister, the respective minister from whom they will be riding. The pursuit can be obvious, i.e. the absolute control of SMEs - public and private - in the Paleopasian patterns of replacing old jacks with new ones and the hostage of any old ones want upgrades. Thus, it turns out that those who believed that the drachma lobbying by SYRIZA would end the total perceptions that accompanied their choices. The drachmas may have left, but total perceptions, unfortunately, still remain. Mr. Pappas is a closer associate of the Prime Minister. He's with him even when he visits the Archbishop. It's the Prime Minister's best ego. The design of control of the new SME landscape belongs to the Prime Minister, dear colleagues. Invoking good intentions is not always enough. Only the immunisation of the institutions guarantees the functioning of democracy. Prerequisites, however, for any setup of the broadcasting landscape is to address the chronic sin, the non-legal composition of the National Broadcasting Council, which effectively depreciates and cancels its operation. Today, if there is a genuine intention of getting rid of the burdens of the past, I think there is the will of Parliament's political forces to achieve a very high majority of the 4/5 Conference of Presidents, so that we can finally build a truly independent, knowledge-based, adequacy and prestigious National Television Council. Without that, Minister, no matter what we say, no matter what we decide if the National Broadcasting Council has no legitimacy, we do nothing but paper exercises. We will remain the same, the hostage will exist and drag this sin upon our backs for the eyes of the middle citizen. As far as the issue of the network provider that has emerged is concerned, we are positive for ERT to enter competition with DIGEA so that, on the one hand, all residents of the Greek territory can gain access to the digital signal, on the other hand, to create conditions for healthy competition, to escape the operation of a monopoly. Furthermore, if it had not fallen black into the ERT, it would have been from the beginning and it would have been a provider of a digital signal, but in terms of course such that we would not have created another problematic company again. Ladies and gentlemen, both regional and national channels are called upon to carry out a social and educational task at the same time. The regional channels, as we all know, are another area, being another group of broadcasting media, as they have other features, operate under other conditions, and therefore their regulation to be correct, fair and effective should be excluded from this bill and come directly to another bill that defines the conditions for their authorisation and operation. As far as municipal radio is concerned, you want to change the status of radio stations and the minimum television stations that operate, that is to say, by companies in the service of citizens to turn them into anonymous companies. This also creates a contradiction, because it is well known that the change in status of development companies, for example, of local government bodies, did not constitute control and transparency standards in another legal regime. We do not take this into account when we should, because it is contradictory. Moreover, the main thing is that such a change in legal status would mean the end of municipal radio. They cannot operate municipal radios as anonymous speculators. Have you understood that, gentlemen of the government? Do we want this to stop municipal radio? Let's rethink it. In addition, we have added in this bill another completely irrelevant and inaccurate piece of legislation, with which you are attempting, among other things, to regulate issues relating to national communication policy and the organisation of national diplomacy. You are setting up, gentlemen, a network of press offices in various countries to promote government propaganda, parallel and independent of the press offices of the country's embassies abroad. With taxpayers' money, that is, various appointed directly by the Minister of State, will be promoted without any assessment by the AACC. What is the position of the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, for which he is directly concerned? Why doesn't he sign the law? Ladies and gentlemen, we, the Potami, will vote at first, despite the pile of problematic provisions contained in this bill. Because for us the major is finally setting in this blurred landscape. We hope until the end of the debate, by Saturday night, that if we do not strengthen the institutions which guarantee respect for democratic rules in a transparent manner, we do not face the problem of substance. Your obsession, ladies and gentlemen, in the attitude of the 'l' état, c'est moi' does not honor and does not vindicate either the history or the concerns of the left and finds us completely opposite. You have to understand that this obsession threatens you to cancel the first, after twenty-five years, attempting to settle this open account. We're giving you help. But the citizens, if you fail, don't think they'll forgive you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u533	Thank you, Mr Dannelly, and respect for the time. Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u534	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a special reference. I come from one of the poorest prefectures in the country, Drama. As far as you know, Minister, it is the only county in northern Greece that is not connected to the Ennaia Road. It's the only detached county from the rest of the country. We are aware that it has been integrated, specific studies have been carried out and we expect this implementation, at least at one point, to have an arrangement. Colleagues and colleagues, I make this specific reference, because today in Drama, under a catastrophic rain, there was a great protest, a voice of protest by the Draminas, because the hospital is closing down. It is a huge issue, a social asset that Drama is deprived of, and we must ensure that. I had to make this reference, in the hope of strengthening the hospital, so that in a border area in the country its residents would not stay without the protection of this social good. Colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about the fourth non-institutional authority, you will allow me to say. Minister, we have known each other for years - as with the Minister of State for many more years - and you are a sympathetic one to me. If I were the Prime Minister of the country, I would be worried about the powers or superpowers assigned to the Minister of State. I am saying this, of course, because, in the first bill, during your first takeover of power, in the humanitarian crisis bill, in addition to two - three articles - a crisis, which, if you like, for the poor of the country, once, you have abolished the institution that has to do with the minimum guaranteed income. In that bill you contained articles that you created or, if you like, you made an effort on how to build a "SYRIZA State". With today's bill, you're trying the same thing. You are carrying enormous responsibilities, 'dangerous', as has been pointed out by the Parliamentary Representative of the River. The intentions of the Minister of State may be legitimate and - I would say - and respectful. I believe, however, that the principle of one always is dangerous from one point to another or perhaps if it does not work in a healthy way. This was also the case under the bill - a law now in the country - where you abolished the national coordinator and conferred enormous responsibilities on the Minister of State. What responsibilities? The control of the economic police, the DEA, the Health Inspectors' Corps, etc. All these services, which were entrusted to the National Coordinator, were abolished by this law, thus becoming the Minister of State's Subordinate to Control of every level. Today other responsibilities, such as information, are assigned to the same, and I think that things are not on the right track, Mr Minister. Because you did say that we should get rid of our hooks or the functioning of a political system that brought us and made the media to a large extent not fourth, but first power, with this disorder, anarchy, manipulation, as you said, their subjection or, if you like, and then the control they could exercise on their part towards the political system of the country. How are all this guaranteed? They are not guaranteed, Mr Minister, with the one-sidedness that this draft law distinguishes with regard to the number of licences, the price of these licences, as you will see from a free economy. I think that things are going on a wrong path here, and I have to stress this and point this out. I was one of those colleagues who reacted to the closure of the ERT before these workers - although they were too many - were guaranteed, because by July 2013 you complained about this agency, which was intertwined, that these workers were appointed by PASOK and New Democracy, so it was a huge issue where there should be transparency. Then you "approved" ERT with a large number of civil servants, without making a classification, in a categorisation of needs and people, so that they can be brought to other services in the public sector. It was a hundred and fifty-seven drivers, if I remember well, at the ERT. They could be led to the EAW, to serve the needs of our fellow people. I come to the regional media, which we members of the central media have a way of communicating with our own world, with the regional media. We must contribute to this pluralism, but this bill does not succeed. The work of too many regional channels has already been transferred, and their communication has been or has been sold to a unknown world. I was particularly pleased to see an amendment to the number of officials present in the regional media, but this will still be determined by the Minister's decision. Minister, the President of Parliament has also mentioned the need for a intergroup committee to determine the number of licences in relation to the media, but this should also be done for the regional media so that there is no idea of your guidance and control over the media, what you complained of until yesterday. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u535	Mr Karayannides has the floor for seven minutes and then Mr Charakopoulos has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u536	Thank you, Madam President. The favor of luck brings two Members from Drama to speak. Minister, there are open demands that I made at some point a commitment to only debate. We're not asking for anything else. In political life there are many subjectives and some objectiveities. One of them, which I imagine will not be denied in plenary, is that for twenty-five years we have a distorted and blurred television scenery. The two parties that ruled until January '15 did nothing but do nothing to solve these distortions, this strife and these "bloody" relationships with banks, channels, contractors and shipowners. It is now inconceivable that we should be accused of the intention of creating new jackals, when nothing has been proved at all. So, in that logic for three days, we have lived through a tripartite synagogue in terms of Officerial Responsibility, which has reached the point within the committee of questioning the authenticity of the committee's composition, an unprecedented thing, as if we were in a school committee. The last episode was the call for unconstitutionality that we heard today in plenary. This issue has also been overcome, and as much as it is a great pain to certain political forces not to implement this law, for their own regrettably it will be implemented. In demanding unconstitutionality only at a point where the number of licences is unconstitutional, my answer is 'DIGEA'. It has never become programme providers before to be frequency providers. Mr Voutsis said so too, and other colleagues have said so very little to you in the Civic Opposition. The fact that you did this monstrosity all six private channels did it and digital frequency providers didn't seem to be bothering you at all. The second thing the President of Parliament has said to you, the fact that you closed public television in a European country, none of you seemed to be criticising. How does a government close the public channel? How can it happen in a democratic government - even worse - to do such an act and not to have any self-criticism? Little parentheses: in his complaint Mr. Michalitsis made about Mr. Nikos Papaulakis there was no lawsuit. There was no denial. Why does this gentleman remain in his place? Why, since this complaint has not been disproved so far, has it led as a general of police forces to download the switch on state television, is it still a vice president? Of course, the closure of the ERT, among other aims, also had a purpose - to me - essential: to show DIGEA as the only frequency provider. To extinguish the public competitor and to show one thing which would essentially prevent anyone else from entering the closed club of the six canalarchs. And you're talking about democracy. Okay, everyone understands it differently. The question is that the closure of ERT also marked redundancies. For it is the other charge we hear: 'What will these people become because they will close the channels'. "ALTER" do you remember that? "MAD TV" you know that? "New CHANNEL" do you know that? The businesses that have closed down, the newspapers that have closed in previous years, do you know them? Did you even say a word about these people all these years? Has there been a supportive talk on your part about the dozens, the hundreds of people who lost their jobs? Does the Agricultural Bank say anything to you about the five billion that it lent to these enterprises? Do you have anything to answer to in this scandal that you participated in? Your ministers were calling the Agricultural Bank and funding dredged stores. And get to these stores, then. I see here from evidence, more than half a billion owes these channels. Go out openly and claim that these damaged stores you want to be maintained. And tell the Greek citizens, who are so hot for the tax raid, that we are paying for this money. Because here there's a little asterisk, and it has to be heard. The "bad" Agricultural Bank - since the "good" we gave it to Mr. Sala - with the debts he has, according to your own bill, in 2017 will be transferred to the backs of the Greek citizens. Are you going to tell the Greek citizens that you're going to charge them a mess of billions, which were financing SMEs, written on ice? Is that why you're gonna say something? Because we didn't come to the House yesterday, we weren't born in this country yesterday. What you've created for twenty-five years with the media knows about it all the world. The week before the referendum, when Armageddon would conquer our country, we all lived here. And because propaganda is very specific and comes from very specific interests and political forces, we should not ignore reality. I also heard the other excellent one: 'The sensitive areas'. First of all, there are no sensitive areas in the country. There are areas like northern Greece, who live hard and nail, that's not what you're burning for, but you want to mention it to write you down. You have never visited northern Greece for those who speak of sensitive areas. So these'sensitive areas' what did they hear when you closed the Greek radio? What channels did they see when you shut down ERT? Even today - because you are so hot for transparency and democracy - these 'DIGEA' regions have no coverage. Equinos, Centaurus, Parnesty, Neurocopi. Even today they don't see. Do you know where these places fall? Oh, no. You just call sensitive areas and the conversation ends there. We said our national tone, and we're fine. So go up there and meet these people. See where they're from and what you did, when you closed the Greek radio. So the people you left in unemployment, the SYRIZA government, came back to work again, because you illegally fired them. You have no right, therefore, to speak of the unemployed, of democracy, of merit and of anything else, because you have not served it forty and forty years. So I'm hanging up. This law will be implemented. You can put black pilgrims, but it will be applied.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u537	Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes. After the word, Mr. Bukokouros will be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u538	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the'second time left', unable to offer the 'hart' that was electionally directed to the Greek people with the 'parallel programmes' and the 'equivalent' that would replace every painful measure of the memorandum you brought us, resorts to the show. The spectacle before us with the bill under discussion is not simple. I would say that it is overproduction under the tempting title of 'tapping'. This is directly implyed by the Government that it is attempting by the draft law on the licensing of television stations. The fact that this bill is now coming through express procedures confirms the truth. Now that the unprecedented tax raid is starting, there is a need to divert public attention. Now that supplementary pensions are abolished, while the main ones are scissors, it takes disorientation of the world. Now that the carpets of HNPH come, which, while you've done away with them, have to be paid in fewer instalments, they need elsewhere to drop the publicity lights. Now that the farmers, whom you have been feeding "roll-rolled hawks" and equivalents, put them in the Profrust's bed of wilder taxation, which has ever been imposed on them, need another, catchy subject for the world. Now that you put a hat on private education, 'five', as your colleague, Minister of Education, said, a party with so many forgotten - it is true - millions of ministers, we need to deal with other issues. Now that thousands of borrowers are in danger of losing their homes, they need to come with fast track procedures such a serious piece of legislation. Why is that? Was it just the agony to shed blood on the media arena to balance a little the slaughter of lambs from the carnival of the measures you are promoting? Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who would not want the conditions to be created for over-reacting influence on the political life of the country by people involved in the media. We would have no objection if the bill, which the government brought us, responded to this principle. Sadly, however, with what is provided for in the provisions of the law, but also with what is not provided for, we are living with snakes! First of all, we are concerned - and rightly all the debate has focused on this - by the superpowers of the Minister of State. Why does he have to decide to whom the licence will be granted, how much will the permits be, what the starting price, how much will the initial capital be? Are we going to prosecute him in the media? Aren't there any procedures? Aren't there any competent organs? Isn't there a National Broadcasting Council? Mr Pappas complains that we are wronging him and that we are misunderstanding his intentions. However, every good-faithed man can reasonably wonder whether, behind the government premiere, he hides the mood for political control of the television landscape, for redistributing the pie, for war. If not all this is happening, behold Rhodes! Disprove us. Clear the terms, follow the rules of transparency. But there are others that do not let us sanctify, such as your intention to limit the number of licences to the fingers of one hand. By putting forward arguments from naphthalene, from the time of analogue TV, which is now part of history, you are seeking to justify the shrinking of the television space. Incomprehensible, since technology has given us unlimited potential, unless the restriction suits government control in the media. [[At this point, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, takes over the presidential seat.]] Minister, as long as the conditions for the operation of television stations are met, let them open without any numerical restrictions. And since we're talking about conditions, what does it mean to define how many workers a channel will have? Who's the bell ringing for? Who will win out of all this detailed description of existing socialism? Incidents in your study, however, to change the TV scenery according to the beam, are also regional stations. You smuggle them with the nationals, put them on the same starting point, without molecules, without taking into account experience of twenty-five years of experience, without taking into account the populations, the geographical conditions of each region. And the risk that regional stations, channels with a history of decades will be closed, that investment will be lost and that hundreds of workers will be on the road more than exist. Because it is very easy for a "clean" investor to come out of nowhere and only with a responsible statement to win a licence. I am presenting in the Minutes the memorandum from the Hellenic Region Information Television Association, which is really a cry of agony. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because a project is seen from the outset if it is good, I have to tell you that the new episode of SYRIZA - ANEL governance, already from the titles, does not begin with good omens and we are very afraid that the continuation will be even worse and today's bill proves it to us. In any case, we applaud your political acronyms. We will firmly defend the public interest, transparency, pluralism in the functioning of information, and the uninterrupted information of the citizens. That is why we are voting against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u539	Thank you to Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Bukoros Christos, Member of the New Democracy, also has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u540	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Hellenic Republic welcomes a highest guest on a visit of high semantic and fundamental importance, the President of the French Republic François Olad. Of course, this is not the first time the French President has visited our country. Today, however, ERT has been flooded with footprints - and very well it does - from President Olad's visit. During his previous visit, the Greek government was vainly looking for a "hidden" plan from foreign television networks, because it was quite accidental for the state broadcasting on that day to strike, as it would strike tomorrow. However, communications needs today have been partly met. At that time, the Greek government was trying - as I said - "hidden" footage to serve the communication needs not of the government but of the country. The same happened during visits by other leaders. This is an informal "black" for which no one is apologised, no one feels the need to be placed, while for the other the well-known "black" of the ERT was apologied by many and was judged by the electorate. This is how I started my position, to prove that the Left, although there was no government in our country, had selective friendships in power systems through unionism and various other forms of public action. Since I started with the news, I can only comment on the current dismissal of the General Secretariat of Public Income, Mrs Savvaidou, by way of summary procedures, before judiciary, by a unanimous decision of the Ministerial Council and by a hard statement by the Government Representative, which, not least, prejudges the outcome of justice. What government does this all come from? From the government, which a few days ago forgot public officials accused of serious offences and even paedophilia, who returned to their positions, and the whole society had to rise to take the necessary measures. We are talking, on the occasion of this bill, about interlocutory relations, about midiocracy in Greece and who favours it. Because no one comes from virginity in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen. What governments did the midiocracy fight in Greece? Is it central to the left or to the left? What governments have he fought to the end of the fall? Was the '90-93 government of privatizations left or right? Was the government on the left or on the right side of the 2000 limiting election results and the media attitude at that time? Was it central to the left or the left of the government, which on the basis of the issue of the Baptist, for which, incidentally, no political person was punished by justice, fought completely until the final fall? Do not mourn, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you have nothing to do with the governments I am describing, when 32% of government officials today attract their political origin from the so-called 'central left' PASOK governments. If governments were to fight in Greece from the midiocracy, they were governments of the Central Right, neither the Left nor the Central Left. We have memory, events may have become historical, but anyone who is willing to put himself objectively can draw his conclusions. However, Mr. Lappa, you have been the favorite children of the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u541	The people did us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u542	They took you out of your hand with love and affection, and from 4% they made you government. You are not entitled to complain about midiocracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u543	Yeah, the channels made us a government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u544	He didn't suddenly give birth to 4% and became 36%. Everyone has their story in this Chamber. Everyone has their story.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u545	Your policy is responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u546	What are you talking about? You've made us big.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u547	Of course, with today's bill, we could not agree on ideological grounds. We believe in the system in the United States, where the media bloom without governmental hugs, without suffocating government control. We believe in the system in Great Britain, where even government broadcasting is not controlled by the government. On the contrary, you with the state broadcasting are going tightly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u548	Is that what you've seen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u549	We could say too many things. Parliamentary time is, however, more impatient than television time. I would also like to refer to regional television, from which I come, saying that if information on the starting price for the cost of the licence, uploaded to 800,000, is correct, the Minister is illusory if he thinks that he will find healthy investors to give so much money for a regional licence. To give 80 000 per year in advance of the price of 800,000 - I repeat, if the information is correct - when the regional stations are already paying the appropriate amounts to the trade mark provider. Unless other entrepreneurs come in serving unselfish goals and purposes. The Minister's remarks, of course, that the potential of the spectrum is inextricably inextricable, that no one is convinced and that they are not based on any technical study. The President-in-Office of Parliament has also come and said to discuss the number of permits. And because he respects his role, I will only make one comment. Mr Voutsis has proved himself, at least to date, and I hope that he respects his role. To discuss the number of permits. What can we talk about, Mr President, when the Government representative herself, before we even started discussing the bill, has she identified the number of permits from five to eight? So what do we talk about? You want to manipulate the media. That's your target. You want to create new fireplaces, the conversations are faded, and the Left Government is devouring that nothing is happening. And you don't do anything to convince us about the opposite. And if you do not listen to the voices of the counterpopulation, if you do not listen to the professional associations of space, if you do not listen to the independent authorities, whose powers you are devastated, such as the National Telecommunications and Post Commission and the National Broadcasting Council, listen to at least from the past the voice of the third President of the United States, Thomas Jefferson, who said that "from a government without newspapers, I prefer newspapers without government." If she lived in our time, she would definitely reject a television that she clamps on for her own reasons by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u550	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u551	So all of this is “protections in sin.” You don't convince us that you want to settle the TV scenery. You want to bring in the new fireplaces to prolong your government life. We, with these methods, disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u552	Germany has six, and France has seven digital channels, Mr. Bukorore.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u553	It's not three oil and three dirt, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u554	Thank you, Mr. Christos Bukouros. Mr. Mitafidis from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u555	Ladies and gentlemen, because we are not legislating today under the regime of economic coercion of the memoranda, but it is a piece of legislation promised by SYRIZA to the Greek people, I will deal with the legislation itself. I will change forehead and I would like to say, Mr Bukouros, "the great gar of sorrow gives birth to insanity". It is unbelievable to say that this government is a product of channel support. Should you remember what happened in the recent referendum? Remember who had created this whole block. It is, in some cases, contempt for the will of the Greek people, with which, of course, you are entitled to disagree and try to change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u556	The 'no' government, which has become 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u557	Whether 'no' has become 'yes', don't rush. You'll see. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise an issue that has already been heard in the Chamber and not only in my birthday city, Thessaloniki, because I had spent a few months ago, representing our municipal movement 'Thessaloniki Open City', a member of the TV100 Board of Directors, of municipal television. I would like to say to you - and I reply to Mr Karaoglu as well - that we are not monitoring government policy but are creating government policy with responsibility for the voters - and not just - and always in the light of the deepest social needs. And from this point of view, it's my place. And I want to be specific. I am referring to the relevant article that converts, strangely and in spite of the commitments we have made and to the associations of journalists, the municipal media to public limited companies and even obliges them to take part in the frequency contest and to make an economic offer. This has caused a snail of reactions perfectly justified, in my opinion, in the city of Thessaloniki, not only in the specific municipality but also in the Labour Centre and in the NISEMI. All the social actors in the city - and let this not be judged as an exaggeration - provide for a new 'black' to fall this time, as, as you know, it is impossible for a municipal instrument, from its very nature, to operate and exist in terms of competition and the market. And I want to be even more specific. I would like to remind the authors of the law that the undertakings of the special purpose radio and television companies were set up as own-fund legal entities under private law and are governed by the provisions of the Code of Municipalities and Communities and Law 3852/2010, the so-called 'CALKARAT'. They are enterprises in the wider public sector, so they are legislated, and they fulfil the objectives of a public service. They're basically public services. In its present form - and we hope that by Saturday this will have changed despite the difficulties that I know there are - the draft law doubts the operation of municipal television media, as the conversion of municipal special-purpose enterprises into public limited companies effectively excludes their subsidies from the municipalities and leads to the suspension of their operation. I shall even present a recast of this article. I will give it to the Minister, and I hope he will take it into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u558	You're talking about Article 9?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u559	I am referring in principle to Article 3(1), which refers to the conditions of participation and the legal form of the applicants for frequencies. If you want, I can read you what I suggest. Secondly, since municipal television is not of a speculative nature, they must be exempt from the obligation to submit an economic offer in the tendering procedure promoted by the law - and it does well - free broadcasting licences. Moreover, it must be judged on the basis of the conditions laid down by the draft law in respect of staff employed, technology equipment and building infrastructure. Thirdly, the proposed recasting in Article 3(1), in order to provide for municipal companies for special purpose, dictates the recasting of a number of other articles and articles in order to clarify the distinctive nature of those companies, that is to say, of special-purpose enterprises by public limited companies. I shall table the relevant legislative improvements in order to make this clearer. I believe, Mr Ministers, that you will take these into account very seriously so that what is stated by the Thessaloniki Labour Center does not happen and it is important that the agency of the workers of the city should bear its burden. "The management of the Labour Centre," he said in his communication, "all these years of municipal TV was well-cooperationed with executives, employees, journalists, since he has always covered their actions, strikes and interventions". Let's not live black again on our screens! Not at the closing of Municipal Television of Thessaloniki! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u560	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u561	For what, Mr. Comrade? I didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u562	It's starting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u563	What's started?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u564	He began his speech referring to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u565	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u566	Please, it was a political reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u567	It was a well - known comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u568	Mr. Mitafidis, it's over. Please! Before we proceed to the next speaker, Mr. Kefaliannis Ioannis, the PASOK Parliamentary Representative has called for the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u569	Is that what the Rules of Procedure say, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u570	Please, Mr. Comrade. He didn't refer to you personally. He made a political position. He had no humiliation on his staff, nor did he excitement to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u571	As you can imagine, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u572	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u573	I wanted a long time ago to ask the Minister, but because the list of Members had really stopped, I have brought it up and thank you. Minister, in the legislative improvements you have submitted, in point 15 is the change that Mr Pappas explained to us about Article 9(3), where Article 9 in the case of workers at regional stations said that instead of setting 200, as he does for national and local authorities, he gets it back and says...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u574	Instead of 20.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u575	It says that it will be determined by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers of State, Labour and Social Security. I also said in my speech that this is a positive development, not what we would like, but that is better regulation. For the locals, why doesn't it follow the same logic? I would also say about the nationalities, but, at any rate, about the local ones. In Kefalonia, Minister, how many workers must have a local channel? Fifty employees?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u576	But twenty is for the district.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u577	No, you don't understand me. That will be defined by the two Ministers. For locals, what's the number?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u578	The same is for locals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u579	What did you say? Is that the same for locals? Did you clarify that? He had three distinctions. National, regional, local. Is this also local? Are you sure? Is that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u580	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u581	Minister, to make it quite clear, to write it in the Minutes, so that there is no problem. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u582	Thank you, Mr President. It is the way we have said it, that is, locals are part of regional.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u583	Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u584	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has to go an extremely difficult and up-to-date route in the next quarter - some people call it a 'cold' quarter - where it must be consistent in order to pass on the measures which it itself has proposed and agreed. For these reasons, of course, the heavy measures, which are slowly beginning to be implemented, such as VAT on private education, the abolition of supplementary pensions and the introduction of VAT on care units for the elderly, should be consistently compensated for by some subtle equivalents. Such a conspicuous communication equivalent is the bill we are now discussing. A little bread and a lot of sight. He's supposed to put an end to anarchy and regulate the TV map. Of course - among us - this bill regulates the landscape in the media while the late Demetrios Marouda also regulates it - if he had made his threat of destroying the satellite that would broadcast television programmes that were not controlled by the government.This bill, ladies and gentlemen, before it was even voted, has been overcome by reality. In a not so distant future, terrestrial digital television will not even be a secondary choice of entertainment and information for citizens. They constantly make their appearance and strengthen the public's awareness of new audiovisual content platforms, such as web TV, satellite television, which do not require state licenses and have no borders. Please tell me, perhaps just one of the issues that this bill solves about what I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u585	Wait a minute, Mr. Kefaliannis. Please don't worry about the Minister. Mr. Papadopoulos, don't worry about him, so the Minister can hear what Mr. Kefaliannis says. Continue, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u586	Tell me, for example, what you will do if tomorrow morning comes up with an online television platform with information and entertainment content, of course, which concerns Greek citizens and which is based in Cyprus. What are you gonna do? Will you give her permission by auction? You're going to classify it in national or regional terms? Will you ask her for the minimum paid-up capital, or will you tell her how many people she must employ? These, of course, are not serious things. If you had any elementary confidence in the laws of the market and in the functioning of the market and, above all, in the regulatory role that the state is required to play, you would know that these regulations are totally unnecessary. Television stations, such as each company, are invited to survive in a highly competitive and internationalised environment and, of course, they did not expect the bill to adapt their content, logistics, quality, and even the quantity of their employees. They know that if they don't do all of this, they'll shut down. You just come in now and close them an hour ago. Do you really know too many regional channels with a minimum of twenty staff? I personally don't know. Most of them barely exceed ten. In fact, what pan-Hellenic information channels can have four hundred staff at least, with the crisis in the advertising market? Of course the answer here is obvious and I think we can all understand it. With the puppy in the government, I think that 'the ski is the limit' and I mean it. I will make a comment on the issue of network providers. Some built left-hand careers with the urban myth that ERT was closed to keep DIGEA from losing the network service monopoly. When it closed, ERT was about to come out to tender with nine million euros budget transmitters plus VAT plus installation costs. When he reopened, he had the same tender of 5.3 million plus VAT and, of course, the costs of installation, i.e. close to five million, about half the cost. But let's see what's going on today. ERT pays the DIGEA network about 2 million a year. It does not, however, pay the 2 million for maintenance and it also saved the 13 million euros it did not pay in 2013, i.e. 9 million plus VAT plus the costs of the installation. He came to the committee yesterday to tell us that if there was a DIGEA state, he would have been amortized in just one year. I really do wonder where you learned those finances. Ladies and gentlemen, in the three and a half years that I have been a Member of Parliament, I have not really seen a rougher bill. And the sixth chapter deserves the title of the memorial torment. Minister, you are setting up a National Audiovisual and Communication Centre. I read from Article 45(2), subparagraphs 1a and 1b: "Between the aims of the EMEA are to support, strengthen and promote the creation and creativity of the audiovisual media. Also, the attraction of foreign direct investment in Greece and the promotion of Greece as a place suitable for the realisation of audiovisual productions. Didn't anyone tell you that responsibility exists at the Greek Film Center? The n. Haven't you read him? Mr President, I am tabling Rule 17 of the Rules of Procedure. 3905, establishing a Directorate for International Audiovisual Producers with exactly the same powers as the provisions you have in this bill. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I really wonder if the Minister for Culture, Mr Baltas, and, of course, the previous Minister, Mr Xydakis, feel that it is not enough to get the resources from the Greek Film Centre, by abolishing the special tax, but now you are also taking the responsibilities. Secondly, what audiovisual record does this agency preserve? Obviously not of the ERT, because as the Scientific Service of the Parliament has said, the ERT itself covers it. Of course not in this House. That's what the House does itself. But what about our film heritage? Minister, do you not know that the previous coup d'état, meeting a time-consuming request from the filmmakers, entrusted the Greek Film Archive with safeguarding our film heritage? In the Minutes, Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure was tabled. He is also a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you want to maintain your credibility, I think you have nothing but a choice, to withdraw this bill as long as it is still time and to resubmit it properly and fully. I think that we are being exposed internationally and you will see that very soon. The sinful, ladies and gentlemen, triangle of interlocutory, which we have heard many times in this Chamber, between informing governments and banks, is not solved as a criterion for excluding any existing lending from the channels. There is a clear solution: private banks that assess the service of their loans on purely private economic criteria. Because only then will we really see which companies, under the laws of the market, can remain. We also expect your proposal ahead of us and the recapitalisation of the banks. Because if the solution is to define the administrations of the banks, then I very much fear that you will erode the most vulnerable form of interdependence between banks, channels and government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u587	Thank you Mr Yiannis Kefaliannis, Member of the New Democracy. We shall now proceed to Mrs Papakostas - Ironopoulou Catherine, Member of the New Democracy. Mrs. Papakostas, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u588	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Greek Member, I would like to make a point that I wish the Prime Minister of the country, when he welcomes a foreign leader - in this case on the occasion of the visit of the French President - and when the national anthem is withdrawn, he should be careful. For that is what respect for the flag and the national anthem of the countries, Greece and France, France and Greece demands. And I would like to say that the French President came to help the country, saying: 'Do what you must do first, namely the reforms, and then we are here to help.' He is the same political leader as today's Prime Minister, as Chief of Officer Responsibility at the time, he called "Olandreou". But the irony of luck comes one time and answers what we politicians say. And that's why we have to be careful. And what's the irony? Papandreou is trying to imitate, and Olad is hugging, trying to help the country in the hard. In other words, I would like to say that, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are either anti-population or, as a government, the definition of makevellism. Your amoralistic attitude, your amoralistic practice of controlling power, is demonstrated every time by every legislative initiative you take. I'm explaining. Can you have such a strong desire to control power in the media field, in the television field, in order to risk this draft law, which will obviously be voted on by the majority - I have no doubt about it - to suppress as it stands in the Council of State? Is it possible to bring in a draft law, which is sure that it will suppress? Can you not hear and read the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament? What does the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament say to you? He tells you that you need to correct certain things. And I'm explaining. In your effort, in your vindicating desire, to control the means, assuming that will serve your authority, as an undisturbed authority, you do not hesitate and you do not rage at all. However, I would like to raise another point. You must answer to the Greek Parliament what is happening with the General Secretariat of Income. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, you must answer what is happening with the Secretary-General of Income. And you have to answer, because Secretary-General Essidon answered and said that her actions were all in consultation with the government, which he admitted, consented. You must explain to the House. In this sense, therefore, I have absolutely no confidence in your hypocritical and presumptuous so-called 'Come on, together, to vote on a bill which is missing and sets order on television licences'. And I will bring you two examples of why I don't believe you. The first and clear example, which has two legs, is: where and in what other European Union country and when is there a Minister of State and where and in which country is there a Minister in Europe, who controls, licenses and does these two things Mr Poppas said, that is to say, to give permits and to deal with the price? ‘Nowhere’ is the answer. So what is the practice and what is the model, which you keep and which you enter in the Greek Parliament? So I, as a Member of the Greek Parliament, why should I vote for something, which is nowhere to be found? Second part of the same issue: will you not please tell me, please, in these times, is it possible for the government to attempt communication - propaganda to go through a government or party line of government partners - co-government outwards? Isn't there the State Department? Aren't there our diplomats? Are there not the diplomatic press offices which, in fact, are dealing with - in an excellent way - in the country and in the interests of the country? So you're turning us back many decades. In fact, you are drawing from examples of countries which have now rejected existing socialism. In that sense, what are you calling on us to vote in favour? I am telling you another example, which makes me think and makes me think second, ladies and gentlemen, of the government: it is not understandable, why do you, for example, reserve another unfavourable treatment for domestic companies which are favoured by foreigners who have the right to rely on the law of the seat? Are you thinking about me? Why do you reserve another treatment? Why do you not adopt our proposal - because you have asked for proposals and I suggest you make a uniform regulation, which I have not seen for all companies, national and foreign, in accordance with the standards of either English or German law? You choose. You make the choice. But why don't you do it? You're putting me in thoughts. I am also thinking of the fact that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, through its report, beggs you - I use the verb - and particularly says of Article 2(4) and (5): 'Such as, for example, you set certain criteria on the basis of which these Ministerial Decisions will be adopted concerning the licensing procedure'. You don't even do that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why there is Parliament's scientific report, so that the ministers and the MPs can read it, and end up in legislative improvements, which precisely promote the draft law, which had no reason, since it is not a Memorandum of Understanding to take this character of "urgent". The Scientific Report of the House therefore states that it is necessary to clarify Article 10(3) and (5), Article 13(1) and (5). For example, it says: 'If the proposed provision that you have put the competitive process into effect is cancelled, should the guarantee letters, which are provided for, not be returned to the applicants?'. You don't even do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u589	Ms. Papakostas, the bailouts are returned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u590	In conclusion, I would like to tell you that in a government, for which Mr Juncker said that he charged the Greek people with a harder deal than he proposed, I have absolutely no confidence in voting in favour of a draft law, which gives the Minister of State responsibility and power in 2015 to act as the absolute ruler by controlling internal communication propaganda and directing it abroad. That's why I'm not going to give up, and I'm not going to consent. I will agree and agree when you bring a bill that is serious, when you bring a bill that promotes transparency, when you bring a bill that really serves philosophy, which you do not serve, transparency, ordering and regulating the market. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u591	Thank you to Mrs Papakostas - Ironopoulou Catherine, Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Sahinides John from Golden Dawn has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u592	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I may be a little tedious for you, but every time we have the opportunity from this step in Parliament, we will continue to talk about the Constitution, Article 15 and paragraph 2, in terms of equality and objectivity. It is not a bit hypocritical to talk about democracy in the temple of semanticism and to be so selective that democracy is so selective in the face of the Golden Dawn, in the third political force, which, anyway, whether you want it or not, respect that it is currently representing 7% of the Greek people. We have to propose solutions. If you do not want to be members of the Golden Dawn, either in public channels or in private channels, find a way like the signals it has written "A allowed over fifteen or under fifteen", something similar to exist for the Golden Dawn. As far as DIGEA is concerned, there is a solution there. You could find a software, have a button and every time Golden Dawn is not projected on a political panel, have the ability of the Greek taxpayer who wants to watch the positions of Golden Dawn and its program, be able to press it and be exempt from the taxes he pays to monitor state television and private channels. So yesterday, at the hearing of the bodies, the Director-General for Development and Technology, Mr Nicholas Michalitsis, informed us that the consortium channels, which, as you know, are all private large channels, are collecting from ERT every year a no-acceptable sum. This is where we propose this as Golden Dawn. There is no way that the money that ERT pays the provider to give the right to go to the banks and instead of collecting these companies' money they should not get, go to the sea loans they have made and never want to pay. Article 9(2) states that the staff of candidates for regional information or non-information licences must on average consist of at least 20 persons. Mr Loverdos said earlier that the same applies to local channels. I believe that many of the Members present who come from the province know very well that a local channel operates with four, five to six people. So what do you do with this article? You manage to close the local channels. Have you wondered, Minister, what work does a local channel offer to local society? Firstly, it informs farmers and farmers about local weather conditions in people who do not have age on the Internet to be informed, raises culture, presents local emissions with morals and customs, documentaries and even highlights inviting local policy actors, highlighting problems and discussing and trying to provide solutions. But what about the regional channels of Thrace and the border regions mentioned by the Member of the New Democracy by Mr Karaoglou? Mr Karaoglou addressed the Minister, accepting the problem of regional channels in the sensitive areas of Thrace and East Aegean. But Mr Karaoglou's thoughts are very fine. He forgot that prior to SYRIZA and the Potami of the New Democracy and the PASOK were the first tutors to learn the problem in Thrace with the self-determined ‘Turkish candidate’ and not ‘Ministerial religious Muslims’. They've been hiding all these years the problem under the rug and, unfortunately, when you hide the trash under the rug, sometime the problem comes before you and you won't be able to solve it. Moving on, therefore, I would like to inform the honourable Members that if a regional network of Thrace fails to provide the capital that should be able to proceed with the licence - Mr Karaoglu mentioned this too - there is a lot of money. The Secretary General of the Golden Dawn mentioned it. You know very well that in the region of Thrace, the Turkish interest bank ZIRAAT is active, which you can be certain will definitely find the money to buy a local channel. In Article 4(1), the minimum paid-up capital to be provided by applicants for regional funding will be fixed by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Minister of Finance and the Minister to whom the powers of the Secretariat-General are delegated. In other words, a specific amount for regional channels is not fixed. That's how you hold them hostages, Minister. How many of the regional channels do you think they will be able to meet the standards you ask for? In Article 16, which refers to the establishment of an anonymous company linked to the ‘ERT SA’ for the development of the digital terrestrial broadcasting network, paragraph 10 states that the general meeting will consist of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of State and the Minister of Infrastructure and that it is the top body of the company and is entitled to decide on each case concerning the company. This is rather more for a Ministerial Council than a provider. If you had another minister or two, you'd be sure we'd have a meeting of the Ministerial Council. Article 6, which lays down the negative conditions, does not mention anywhere that is incompatible with big-working pimps and does not exclude them, perpetuating the complexity and opacity of our country. In conclusion, I would like to refer to Mr Famello, the SYRIZA rapporteur, who also referred to the categories of licences, as regards the capital they have to deposit, without specifying that the Minister will decide again on the capital to be deposited for the regional channels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. When judging by the conditions it must meet with regard to the staff it will employ, we are appalled by the thought of the amount it will be asked to pay for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u593	Thank you Mr Shahinidis Ioannis, MP of the Golden Dawn. Mr Koukoutsis Dimitrios, a member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u594	Thank you, Mr President. They were heard by the Communism and by the Opposition this evening some descriptions of the canalarchs and how the channels in our country were working so far. They said they were suspicious, corrupt, intertwined, monopolistic. However, I would like to ask all of you a question: Every morning at the entrance of SKAI, MEGA and ANTENNA which Members are conspiring? Who are these parrots, the pots, the TVs, where they appear on these channels every morning? Golden Dawn? Oh, no. All of you. So for the most part these designations. The representatives of the JRC are missing, who complained about the behaviour of the channels in front of them. But let them not forget that the front of capitalism for many years in the media has been their own children. They have all been studied by the JRC, they have all gone from 'RIZOPASTI' - the large majority - and most of all, for example, let us remember Mr Chima and his famous article in 'RIZOPASTI' that 'nothing happens in Chernobyl'. Why are you hitting the Soviet Union?" Older people will remember. Finally, the media in this country have not been up in the past decades. They did not do their duty to control the state and power. They are, they are and will be part of the establishment. They participated in the game of corruption and contributed to the destruction of the country's social fabric. The fact that the country is now on the edge of the cliff in a large part is also due to them, because they are collaborators in the dirty game of the system. So, in our country, what kind of phenomenon is there? A lot of media, little profits, little country. How is that possible? It can happen, as long as the media owners have profits of another kind. And when the newspaper or television station exerts political influence and works, they have other profits. How many independent media are there in Greece? How many television channels, radios and newspapers are there, which are independent? Let us all admit it: None! They lost their innocence twice in that country. First, they were salted by the political parties and by the state and then fell into the hands of economic groups. Incapacitated between two powers, political and economic, they were never really given the opportunity to defend themselves. In this context, neither ERT has democratically operated over all these years, as should a state as a public instrument. Our position is fixed: it does not make us cold nor heat for ERT. Why? There is neither an excess nor a lack of democracy against us nor in its attitude toward us. In 1989, when the era of private radio and television began, I believe that it was a decision that was fatal: it was the fact that they were granted to the media press owners. As a result, monopolies were set up again. Most radio and television stations in the country belong to companies active in the fields of shipping, construction, oil, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals and go by saying. You know, private TV has contributed to pluralism. Let's admit he kept company to old people in difficult times. We were therefore counting on a abolition of this one-dimensional position of things that so far existed. Woman! Of course, what about the loans, the mass redundancies, the fat salaries of journalism’s willingness to grow and grow? Willing men increase, not wages. What about the involvement with the public, the medieval working conditions for the 'little' of the report, which we live with every day? And they will become willing in the future and become "big ones". There's a lot of other things that don't look for a price. What did the private media do about culture? With an hour a week, let's sing a municipal song, or by saying at the end of the paper about a theatrical performance? Their purpose was the deep decolette, the nakedness, the gossip. The same way that someone manages public frequency shows his culture: the image, the word, his determination, his politeness. But the canals themselves, with their choices, destroyed every cultural element. Private television, but in our country and the state, became the new pattern of behavior for many, especially for the most vulnerable groups, young people and the elderly. This box was viewed as a box of magic and affected millions of people, imposing consumer mums, glowing, setting out clothing and behavior, but leaving the capital and its appetizers unavoidable because they were themselves. What about the Greek language that was abused through private channels? This is where writers, journalists came to the point of following the standards of private television languages. If we are not aware of this, this language is also used by those responsible for Greek education and education. We have reached the point in this country that journalists should replace teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, to come out in the light of competitiveness, a nation must have people with a deep historical, national conscience. Without ID, you have to live in the dark. What exactly culture did the unpaid canals produce? Who? That snitch's guy? Selfishness? Interface? Are you lying to her? They have nothing to do with the will of man and his conscience. They have nothing to do with morality, aesthetics, law and freedom. We think it's not going to change anything. But the worst part is that the New Democracy is wrong. There are no new ones coming, a new generation of newly armed Greek interconnectors, which will function, rule the private media. Oh, no. In this country we have learned, in the media, in journalism and in the parliamentary debate - before us, we have had the same names in this House for fifty years, not to say more - in the logic of 'children' children'. It makes sense to have a follow-up to the media sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u595	Thank Mr. Koukoutsis from Golden Dawn. Here is Mr. Gregos Konstantinos from the Golden Dawn, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u596	Thank you, Mr President. In the name of only one correction: Greg Antony. I heard the competitor Koukoutsi, who spoke before about education and education. Education and training on these channels the privates that have been filled with a pound-pound Turkish ring? No relationship, of course. Speaking always of the media, the mind goes directly to concepts such as corruption and complications. You had announced a long time ago that you would bring this bill to a vote in order to clear the scene. Whiskers hope! Clearly, the bill is not the way we expected it. What we are asking for and the Greek people, by extension, is what I will mention to you below and are self-evident: First, direct payment of fines imposed on channels within a ten-day period. This time we think it is too much if we think that big-fashioned people have plenty of money, millions of euros, while ordinary citizens lose regulations unfairly and illegally. Secondly, direct debt payments to banks, as is the case with ordinary citizens. Thirdly, applying the Code of Conduct to state channels. Of course, what do we talk about? We are talking about credibility, equal visibility, objective information, transparency and pluralism. Fourth, application of the professional incompatibility. Fifth, continuous and regular control of the channels by state services. I'm referring to the ILO etc. Sixth, defending the national interests of the country, because it is insulting, dangerous and disgusting to display the logo 'TURKCELL' on the islands of the eastern Aegean. This is of course also the case in the Thrace region, as we have pointed out. It's too dangerous, as the competitor said. There is the Turkish ZIRAAT bank, which has too many millions with which it can buy everything. We have heard from a speaker from PASOK - and I would like to say this - that PASOK was not supported by canalarchs, while on its almightyness they concealed their betrayals, scandals and crimes. Eventually some people in here are unrepentant. If, Minister, and gentlemen of the government, you were standing up to the great-workers, the great-grandfathers, you would have with you the entire Greek people. I am talking about the well-known ones, to whom the competitor Cassidy referred. He said names. Of course, if there was no Golden Dawn who would know what it is and what Bobolas is doing and who are running the country right now. Let us say that figures for him and many others are collected daily and transported, as we have an obligation as Members of the Golden Dawn to the Greek people. But we hope that justice will be activated at some point too. We declare that regional channels should have voices for many and understandable reasons. Clearly the Greek citizen does not expect to be informed by the news releases of systemic channels. We're not talking about entertainment here. We're talking about fun. The entertainment, the fun. People are also aware of the opinion of a poll that was carried out on the appreciation it has had on the face of journalists. We believe that it is necessary to withdraw the licence and impose heavy fines on those who do not comply with the above conditions. Of course, the oxymomile is that the main role of journalists is the splendidness of the Members and officials of the Golden Dawn and thus of those who vote for us. We consider it our duty to isolate them and stand against them with our institutional role. We have heard and seen too much about the allegedly criminal activities of the Golden Dawn, but never did any systemic channel show and never put up an acquittal of the courts, and because they did not want and because they did not have such a mandate from their bosses. I'm talking about the acquittal of the Cassidiari competitor about the Baltaku video or the acquittal of the Barbarousi competitor in a video played against coronary channels, with a piece of paper box. For these acquiescences made in the so-called crimes committed by the Golden Dawn, no systemic channel showed anything. The only thing they can do with their dirty lies, of course, is to regain the Golden Dawn third political power. And not only that, but their interventions and the attempt to influence the public on political events have had the opposite effect, for example, as was the case with the referendum. I read from a blog, as this has been written: "Diplomatic persecutions against journalists decided on by the Disciplinary Board of the CSCE, on the occasion of complaints about a discriminatory attitude they alleged to have observed during the week preceding the referendum. Persecution concerns Olga Tremi, Yannis Pretenderis, Maria Sarafoglou and Manolis Kapsis from "MEGA", Stamatis Maleli and Nikos Konitopoulou, the editor of the exhibition of Constantine Bogdanou, who is not a member of the EESC, Mars Portuguese and Dimitris Economou from "SKA" and Maria Houki from "ANTENNA". The investigation, according to an ESDC decision, will continue with the production of videos for journalists, who have been denounced by citizens by name." Here too, the citizens will have to be activated. And I continue: "It is noted that there is an investigation under way by the National Broadcasting Council and by the Prosecutor for a violation of electoral law." In conclusion, I would like to say that it particularly bothers me to be called "NATIONAL" the well-known brochure of the well-known big-time big-time master Bobola. It would match another title in this booklet, such as squawking, shaging, or something like that, because the word nation is sacred. Greek citizens demand that dirt be cleaned from the information area. Who would not want to close the MEGA or other systemic channels, but - we say it again - they will have to pay their debts first? Indicatively, there is the debts of channels to the banks on the Internet. For example: "TELETYPOS" of Bobola 123,500,000 euros, "PEGASOS" again of Bobola 164,300,000 euros, "ALPHA TV" of nearmena 58,000,000 euros, etc. I repeat that all these amounts exist on the Internet. I say again that the clearance can only be done by the Golden Dawn. That's the kind of popular order we have! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u597	Thank you, Mr. Greg Antonio. I'm sorry for the wrong word of your name before. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u598	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the legislation we are discussing is outdated in many respects. First of all, because the audiovisual market is being approached with a culture of analogue television and not the era of the Internet, and secondly, because it is attempting in various ways to control state and party information. We have over-concentration of powers in a minister, at the expense of the independent authorities, who in the end do not want to be so independent. The Minister finally determines how many stations can operate throughout the country, but also possibly in each region. You are burdening the National Broadcasting Council with responsibilities, but you are not bound by its opinion. You define, instead of Parliament, the board of the National Telecommunications and Post Committee. You extend the responsibilities of the General Secretariat for Information and Communication to foreign fields, such as public diplomacy. Thirdly, the bill is anachronistic, because you are struggling the state, setting up new clienteles. We sought a tighter and more effective public administration, while you create at least two legal persons of private law and unknown how many press and communication offices abroad. Instead of cutting costs, in order not to put any new taxes, you are charging the budget with new ones that cannot be calculated either by the General Accounting Office of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to be said about when you read the bill. Respecting time and as a Member of the region, I would like to refer to some forecasts of the authorisation of regional stations. Authorisation cannot be considered solely by who can give most. There are media companies all over the country that have been established for years, resonating to local communities. This is something that needs to be taken into account. The argument that all interested parties are starting from the same starting point is annulled. It is annulled by the possibility of submitting an application without even having set up an undertaking and by a single responsible statement that it will have buildings, programmes and staff in reasonable time. The minimum number of staff imposed on each regional channel simply reveals the ignorance of how a regional network operates. The market is constantly changing and a flexible issue needs to be given, as you have rightly corrected it. Economic sizes, such as starting-up price, minimum paid-up capital and candidates' own funds, must be determined on the basis of the characteristics of each region: population, available income of its residents, market size and other parameters. Another thing that I also consider important for all regional stations and not: we are asking the successful tenderers within 15 days of their being declared to pay the full price of the ten-year licence. Minister, are you asking for too much? Do you have any idea of the problems that media companies have today? You increase the cost of operation by overtaxation. You are asking them to put their hand in the pocket, but with commitments - and rightly so - for the workers concerned. You ask them to forget the profit for some time. Why don't you make it easier to pay the price? Is it income you've estimated for the year or is anything else behind it? Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close up briefly on an issue I have the impression that he has not received the attention he deserves. Under the sixth chapter of the bill, a National Audiovisual Centre is set up to operate as a kind of national audiovisual archive. And that's where it starts. Why do you have to tear down everything right that has been done by your predecessors? Also, this National Centre for Audiovisual Media is intended, among other things, to show Greece as a place for shooting foreign films. Does the Minister know that this work has been entrusted for years to two other bodies, the Hellenic Film Center and the Thessaloniki Festival? Leave the Ministry of Tourism and the EOT. Is the Minister aware that the reason why we have not succeeded in bringing large productions to Greece is not just a question of structures? The new body is not going to succeed more in this, because there is time-consuming bureaucracy and division of powers, shooting in archaeological sites is a lot and expensive, we do not have large studios, and because you have not yet institutionalised the tax incentive given by the Samara Government for audiovisual productions. On the contrary, you abolish the special tax on tickets that fed Greek film production. What records will be gathered from and where? Is it preferable for archiving material to be hosted to bodies that know how to maintain and keep them better? That is why, according to international experience, the Samara government commissioned with n. 4315/2014 in the Greek Film Archive the preservation and maintenance of our national film heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of this is one. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government with this bill is once again looking at outdated methods and old materials: stateism, partisanism, centralism. It is to wonder how you can build the new one with old materials! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u599	Thank you to Mr Yoyaka Vassiliou, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, a Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u600	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this bill is concerned, neither rationalisation nor transparency nor justice are concerned with the government. Its lasting aim is to disorientate citizens, to culminate in its inability, which already costs the people extremely expensive, but also to create a new and very hard party state. This is also the essence of the TV-frequency bill, and I would ask, ladies and gentlemen of the government-majority majority, that you give up the screams about allegedly combating corruption and the conflict. Listen to a man's sincere question with common sense. You generally blame the canaries for various things, i.e. for complexion, for debts, for the "seawater" they took. What are you sitting at? Subscribe the information you have in the jurisprudence and control mechanisms of the State and proceed with the clearance you are publishing. But you don't. On the contrary, you are creating a bill with two objectives...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u601	We did it. We've done it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u602	More. I'm talking about the canals. Did you do it for the canals? If you did...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u603	I can't hear you. You want to talk like that? If you want to talk like that, talk. I don't have a problem. I'll do it with great pleasure. I've been in an amphitheater. On the contrary, you are creating a bill with two objectives: on the one hand, you are building a window of so-called war with complexity, people's consumption, and on the other, you are either trying to blackmail situations or create a new generation of masters that you will define. You don't care to clean up the scenery. You care to check it out for yourself. This is all the substance of this bill, which is otherwise completely anachronistic and is taken out of Mr Maruda's timeline, the most outdated left-wing idea of ratification of media policy. What is the limited number of licences it provides for? The digital spectrum can host, without extra investment, several pan-European stations and with a small investment many more. The idea of the limited number of licences is in the analogue television era. Did you talk to the market, anyway? Did you see how many stations the advertising market can take? Do you know how many employees are on the advertising market? Has he bothered you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u604	You heard Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no. I heard Mr. Spirtzi fine. I was here when Mr. Spirji spoke. I'm talking about the advertising market. Have you spoken to the HR? Did he tell you what the limit is and the tolerances of advertising are? I insist on that. Do you know how many people in the advertising market are, how many are in the advertising sectors? Why does the Minister become a chief commander? And it has nothing to do with this Minister, who can have the best of intentions. A face as a beginner! And you know, Minister, we are here today, tomorrow we won't be, there will be others. It's not a facial matter. It's a matter of logic. Why is the independent authority, the PSE, on the one hand, satisfied with the ideological hostility towards the independent authorities, and on the other hand, did we see it in the Secretariat-General of Public Income - and, on the other hand, a man is transformed into a 'emperor' of frequencies? In other words, a system of centralized, authoritarian and undemocratic. What is the purpose of the bill to provide for the exact mix of the programme and the number of employees, ultimately replacing the market and the people who are trying in this market? Why should the state for SYRIZA instead of shaping the business framework, even in matters of day-to-day operation? However, the government that is allegedly being cut off for the workers, let us respond to something: If after this bill, even a single station is closed, if the channels are less tomorrow, what will happen to their workers? How will the government ensure them? Or because they don't belong to ERT, do we not care about them? Obviously the new bill is not interested in workers. In the bazaar of its design, the government sells out employees in every media in order to control the broadcasting landscape. The unrealistic preconditions that are being put in place are obviously strengthening political extortion and in the process they will be deported for the good and obedient. Obviously, the government is not interested in a better television field. It ignores what the existing media have in know-how, investing, shaping a common starting limit for everyone because it wants to show that it can form a new and of course more friendly to the government's media environment. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is one: If the government wanted to combat the conflict and exalt the TV map, it could take the simplest and safest way, namely to open up the market and with clear conditions for legality, to help those who have more entrepreneurs enter the television market, because international experience has shown that the more players become the harder the struggling. And technology now makes market opening easy. However, the draft law we have in our hands works exactly backwards. Instead of allowing the opening of the market to close it even further than in the analogue era, because your objective, gentlemen of the government, is not the battlefield, but the battle with what does not mock your ears, the battle with the information. A news report is enough. This is your ideal perception of information, which is equivalent and equal to Mr. Friends for VAT in education. You're making a huge mistake, though. You do not understand yet that the same wave of disillusionment of the people who have brought you to power will become unintentional tsunami to suppress you now that your real face begins to appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u606	Thank you, Mr. Katsaniotis. We are going to give the floor to Mr Ayggenakis for dentistry rather than tritology. Only the Parliamentary Representatives have a three-tier system. Déterology for five minutes has been requested by Mr. Aygeakis. Although the debate is going on and should go tomorrow, entirely exceptionally, we will give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u607	No, it's not exceptional. Wait a minute, Mr. President. Don't think you're doing me a favor. As rapporteur, Mr President, I have the right to secondary education after the debate has been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u608	It's not complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u609	It's not complete, Mr. Ausgeakis. We're waiting to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u610	You are interrupting the list because they have stated several colleagues. If you want to pull, as we did before, the meeting until everyone runs out...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u611	If you want to go by 3:00 and immediately then talk, talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u612	I have no objections. I can go down and wait until the end of the list. I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u613	Just because we've said to finish at 0.00, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u614	As you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u615	Let me just tell you what the timeline is. He will speak for five to six minutes. Mr Theocharis will then speak, two more colleagues and we will close at 0.00 p.m. to vote at first. Saturday we will continue on articles with the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives and with the list of speakers from the point of view of stopping, but also with those who are re-listed. Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u616	First of all, Mr President, since I thank you, I would like to say on behalf of the New Democracy, as I imagine on behalf of all the political wings, our support for the hundreds of our fellow citizens who have today been faced with the mania of nature, whose assets have suffered serious damage, and our warmest condolences to the family who has lost part of today's rainfall. Mr. Spirtzi, I have the impression that you need to start high-speed work because we're waiting for a difficult winter. So you should do everything so that we do not have other victims and damage. Ladies and gentlemen, we must thank the two Ministers for their presence, but not with their genuine involvement in the dialogue we have sought to have in the Committee on the past two days, but also today. The government is out of place and time. It brought us a piece of legislation which is a genome. And that's proud. Suffice to take a look at the ten pleadings with very good remarks, many of which, of course, the Greek state will find before it in the European and Greek courts, but above all in European courts. That is where I shall refer to the second part of my dentistry. However, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot place yourself in terms of the past - Mr Spirtzis in particular - and you want to say that you are serving a progressive government force of the future. You cannot even discuss now, even after all these discussions we have had - the hearing of bodies, privately in Maximos and later in the committee - and have this perception of regional channels. This thing is incomprehensible and this improvement you brought is at least funny. And not only that, but this is another peak point which, if tomorrow - the day after tomorrow, will lead to the apology of you, but also of all of us as a state. From where and until where do you - and not just you, but someone else got into the game - will you determine how many workers will get these and the other free professionals? I don't understand. In fact, you'll also identify him as specialties. Don't get away! And specialties! Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware of what will happen if this legislation goes ahead and especially if any of the legislations it contains apply? If it moves on, of course! But it won't go any further, because Mr. Pappas himself said yesterday at the closure of his dentistry that this law really can't walk, it's 'cutty', because you know, it's also the PSE, but some other things too. Of course he can't walk. However, if he walks, do you know what will happen? You blame the New Democracy for bringing "black" to the ERT. All right! You know that SYRIZA will be the force that will bring the "black" into tens - not one, not two, but tens! - regional stations, possibly at some central - the so-called 'Athinian' stations? However, I insist that it will bring the black into tens - not just one and two - regional stations! And I quote the testimony of one of the presidents of regional TV stations, that of about a hundred, a hundred, ten, it is a question of getting it out of these terms and conditions. So, Mr. Pappa, what did you understand from this whole debate? What correction and what improvement did you bring? The one who says they'll decide two and three ministers how many employees a station will get? The rest of you didn't consider it? That is why I would ask you not only to honour us with your presence, but also by taking into account what we are discussing. We are not going to consume endless hours of discussion without meaning. Mr President, with regard to diplomacy, foreign policy, an issue that is extremely dangerous and sensitive, is Mr Kotzias in agreement? My information says otherwise. What are yours? Is the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs, the political leader, agree that part of foreign policy is being transferred back to the Minister of State, in other words to you? Is it a deal? Of course not! And if you want, you can disprove me. Ladies and gentlemen, we are asking - and I turn to another issue - for the independence of the ERT. And that is something New Democracy is not only asking for, but also for the left-wing man - from what I have at least been informed by discussing between us - the president or representative of the ESRB. What we are asking is an ERT open, an ERT open to society. And I come to another point on which I have received a'small answer' from Mr Major. But I would like a confirmation from Mr. Pappas. Is the law that you passed a few months ago fully applicable, Mr Pappa? Is ERT working perfectly? Are its debts paid to workers? Her finances are fine? And above all, what will you do with the reimbursements received by officials - managers, workers, journalists and technical staff - who have been re-occupied? So, let's say, to hear us, those who are listening to us at this time, that, as Mr. Major, if he's lying, you're lying, because I've been informed since yesterday, there's still a couple of ministerial decisions, to see how the money given by the Greek State, 600,000, 70,000, 80,000, some and a little more, to see how this money is to be repaid, since these people are back in their seats. So, what do you expect for so many months? I don't understand! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the other hand, our information says that you are preparing speedy mobility. I wish it was not true and it was perfect to design a few months ago that you did and brought the law on ERT. Minister, have you thought about the scenario tomorrow morning, when you are opening the tender, a regional channel or, above all, a national channel to close, why cannot it be involved, because, in any event, under the conditions laid down in the tender, it cannot and does not have the opportunity? What about the money he owes? Have you considered this? And if so, how much is it? How will the Greek state deal with it? I will say once again - and let me become tiring - whether there is an economic study on the project on the establishment of a second, a platform, a second DIGEA, based on an ERT subsidiary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You have nothing in mind and this shows that in an extremely rough way you are managing it, in a great lack of Greek money. There's no state money. There's no money in the ERT fund. Still, with excellent comfort, you waste money without there being. If you convince us with evidence - we said yesterday, we say this in the most official way - that this is sustainable and that you have taken all possible steps into consideration, even falling out, my child, project is this, on the market you go, business people go to become, ERT goes to be a businessman...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u617	Please complete, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u618	I'll be done in a minute. History has shown that the state company and businessman failed to walk to Greece. If you do, we'll take your hat off, but please give us all the conditions to see if we can vote, even some of these articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u619	Mr. Ignace, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u620	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be tabling the Minutes, because I must conclude the Union legislation on the basis of which a few months later you will be running. We'll all run as a state. I am also telling you the points, without adopting everything - I am not adopting them, rather than saying to you the points - which you have taken into consideration - you are hiding them, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, calling on you to vote tomorrow - and tomorrow you will be apologizing - that Europe and the Commission, gentlemen, have put you in the corner and put us as a country in society. And you're telling a few halves that you know you didn't understand them well there in the Commission, they didn't tell you in a nice way, we'll explain them later and we'll see. Close the eye as well, wickedly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a moment to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u621	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u622	Thirty seconds, please, let me finish and testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u623	Yes, but you've exceeded all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u625	Two other colleagues need to speak, so that we can close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u626	One chapter deals with the licensing of a content provider, the auctioning of content licences. It is two chapters in which the Greek Government will slap by voting, ladies and gentlemen, for a law of lame nature. The other issue concerns the second chapter, the competition issues of network providers, which I will present in the minutes and the points of circumvention of European competition law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u627	Mercy, Mr. Comrade! Please do not abuse the Bureau's tolerance with regard to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u628	These are issues, as are some reasons. Some lawyers, having legal knowledge, will understand in depth, Mr. SYRIZA's rapporteur, that all we are discussing and fighting and we wished in every way to get the document, help the government, help our country and not accepted, unfortunately we found it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u629	Vote if you want, but finally finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u630	Don't rush, Mr. Comrade. If you're in a hurry to go back to your village, leave now. Please don't rush too fast. You're nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u631	Mr. Ausgarian, please do not engage in dialogue and conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u632	You've been nervous all these days. [[Noise in the Chamber]] What are you nervous about leaving or listening here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u633	Mr. Ignace, please! There's also Saturday to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u634	I am presenting in the Minutes the evidence of breaches of Union law, without, I repeat, as New Democracy, accepting or agreeing with all that they are referring to. [[At this point the Member, Mr Eleftherios Agygeakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It would be interesting, but it would also be useful for the government to know your intentions and have a substantial debate, if we were able to reject some of them in a timely manner and not after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u635	The Minister has the floor for two minutes. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u636	Thank you, Mr President. On ERT, I would like to say that ERT pays EUR 2 200 000 per year to DIGEA. Today the competition took place and is 5 million the cost of network development without the discount. Sounds sustainable to us. I don't know what calculations you think such a plan is not sustainable. In addition, ERT operates well and only the joint ministerial decision on how to pay late payments and offset the compensation is pending is pending, because many employees had received compensation when the 'black' to the ERT. I read today an article by a commentator in the newspaper "Dimoratia" - I will not mention his name and forgive me - but I would recommend you to read it too. I do not personally adopt the extreme term, which he has chosen to describe, because he has spoken of New Democracy's slavery in relation to the permit bill, and has thus expressed and described and set out some arguments for the reasons why you should vote on it. I just want to say this: when we charged frequency charges, your executives went out and said that we were doing crap and shit and that this is not going to be collected. They were collected and collected. Others had taken care of the advertising tax, but were collected. In your own government, therefore, the advertising tax has also been transferred. And now that we are saying that at some point the permits must be paid, unfortunately, they themselves find a plea from the same wings of the House. I have nothing more to say. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u637	You have nothing else to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u638	I insist, Mr Ausgeakis, that you vote against what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u639	That's our right. That's not your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u640	I invite you to vote on the articles and take a step towards rationality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u641	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Theocharis has the floor now. Mr. Theochari, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u642	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no excuse. You told us when you were elected. We didn't have a simple government change, a government majority. We had a change of regime. You're a regime. As the Azerees have done, as Libya did, as we have here in other times. So you told us, that's how you act.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u643	Do we have a dictatorship?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u644	You bring a bill of law to restore Georgia. The Minister is almighty. Responsibility for instruments and investments. Think about it. Instruments and investments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u645	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u646	Not just you, Minister, and the next ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u647	Rescind it, please, too, unless you want to get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u648	You're a Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u649	Revoke it, Mr. Theochari!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u650	Rescind what? That you're almighty?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u651	Revoke the things about Georgia. I accept the political assessments. The rest of you to withdraw them. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u652	I didn't say that... Does he have to go into the broadcasting scenery? Of course. You're on? No, of course not. You don't want it. You want to keep the media smuggling you. But the Greek people know that. Two hundred and seventy days after January 25, 2015, thirty two days after September 20, 2015 and even clear the scenery in the media. This bill does not solve the problem. The license will solve it. We'll wait for the license. When you give permission, then we'll have order. When you give permissions. Not when you vote, Minister, the bill. Even then, the more young owners enter the greater suspicion there is. Some are already talking about shipowners, large-scale journalists and industrialists, who are conspiring to get these new permits. Where are they conspiring? Extortion of means? Illustration of the public? Places of relatives, party officials? Agarbes, like Mrs Savvaidou, we also have to admit the expulsions. Darbes. Ladies and gentlemen, there are procedures. Follow the procedures. It's important. Your problem is one, Mr President. You have power and you don't know what to do with it. You brought us a media bill. Why? Did you explain to us what you want to achieve with that? How many channels do we stand? Why does the Minister decide that? On what criteria? What about the radio? Why did you send a letter on frequency charges? But it seems to me that you have forgotten about regional resources. You sent regional media, Minister? What is the purpose of the ‘ERT net’? Do we want full population coverage? Do we want to reduce the prices of ‘DIGEA’? Is there another way to achieve these two? How much will it cost? You told us five million. Is that the total cost? With what money? Who's gonna put it? The Greek taxpayer? Do you give a free public good to the 'ERT net'? Free public good is that he has the ability? Is this allowed or do you sell it, and how much do you sell it? Will you hire the 'ERT net'? Opportunities for new recruits? More technicians? The frequencies of the "DIGEA" are set by the "DIGEA" and the "ERT net" now. What are you auctioning? For what? What is the public good we are auctioning, since the frequency of these two companies has. Will they have her after the bill? The 'DIGEA' has them and the 'ERT net' has them. That's the public good. What else? Why four, five channels, not twenty? And if someone has paid - and ERT and DIGEA have paid for 20 channels - how do you deny the right to be able to sell to others? If anyone's doing it online, is it bypassing you? Is he bypassing all control? If he goes to Cyprus and makes a satellite coverage, how are these checked? Through Cyprus he can have all of Greece. And with a studio from Greece... Uncontrollable? Are all these problems solved? How do we guarantee pluralism and pluralism? I'd tell you with the multi-share. We must not allow channels to have a dominant voice. Many shareholders are fighting with each other. They can't have the line of the shareholder. The shareholder's line breaks when interests and within shareholders are many. You do not, however, set a limit to not being able to have a fully own channel. These issues with the embassy press offices? What's this? Where do they start? You're taking responsibility from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and doesn't have the signature of the Minister of Foreign Affairs? Is that legal? What's this about? To make ruffles and send ERT employees abroad? And so much more. The culmination is, of course, that you are making a disciplinary misconduct of the independent authorities, not complying with the Minister's suggestions. Is this thing possible? I think, ladies and gentlemen, that things are simple. You lied to me. You hypocrisy rule. You've really thrown your ideology like a hole in a shirt. With your inability you will bring worse measures. New worse measures. And for all this, you need a way to hide them by controlling the world's information. With this bill you're trying to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u653	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Last speaker for today, before we proceed to the vote, she is Mrs Dritselli Panayota. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u654	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to be very larky, because I respect all our times and tiredness. Mr President, this is the third meeting in this parliamentary term, by putting the programming statements, the debate on the prerequisites, and today on the media. I myself, personally, regret to see that there is essentially a misguided argument on the part of the Opposition, mainly the Officerial Response, and it is clear now that there is no political opposition. In my opinion, this is because the opposition in general, but in particular the New Democracy, is trying to run on two boats. On the one hand, I would say, opposition, and on the other, with the failure to justify the policy that has been followed for years, with any consequences for Greek society. This means, of course, that there is no real, constructive dialogue, that the opposition is mainly re-changing in any legislative intervention, thereby preventing any debate that can be done for the benefit of society, and indeed, on issues such as today, which we all know very well that for decades they have been tempting the country, but above all, they are also an urgent demand for decades that SYRIZA has come to fulfil. On the other hand, a gebel-type tactic is followed mainly by the Potami, throwing mud into the fan and actually focusing on'says' - say something will stay. On this point, I would like to address Mr Theocharis, who is here, because I am surprised to read today the announcement he made in response to the choice of the Ministerial Council for the General Secretariat for Public Revenue, with the imaginable title - if I am not mistaken, Mr Theocharis - 'The government has allergies to the independent authorities'. I would like to ask you: Why have you resigned from the post of Secretary-General then? Did they give you up? Did you give up on your own? At that time I remember the news said that Mr Stournaras said to you: 'Dear, I want you to make it easier' and you just answered 'Yes, I will leave'. In fact, sometimes you don't think we have a goldfish memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u655	Should we go to something more recent?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u656	Here we all know very well who we are, what we did before and what we want to do from now on. That is why I tell you to be a little more careful, because above all you underestimate the intelligence of the Greek people, not ours. Apart from that, I would like to refer to two other issues which have caused me a great deal of surprise. First of all, we heard Mrs Vulture today in an incredible attack that we would cut pensions without the insurance policy being filed, without even having said what is going to happen. The negotiations are still under way, and that is what we want to do all the time. So Mrs Vultesis told us what we were talking about in the election, from Genoa, and that we are not doing all of this. I also inform the New Democracy, because it has been attached to the January elections, that two elections have been held, which you have lost, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the PASOK, the River and the other parties in the counterpopulation. The Greek society also trusted the SYRIZA - ANEL Government this time, because it knows that with this government it can sometime come out of the recession and austerity, a situation in which you led it and not us. You have also charged us with this and I have heard from many colleagues that we want to build the ERT party. I will not actually go into the matter, whether or not I agree - and I obviously do not agree - but I just want to remind you what exactly has happened with your very favourite NERITH and how it dealt with government officials at the time of the New Democracy and PASOK, and whose many interviews and clips had become viral on social media, and I do not want to mention specific cases. I would also like to say to Mrs Vultesis - although she is not here - and in general to those who are blaming us that we are calling for election and other things to be done by post-election, that this bill promised that we were aspiring and attempting to put order in the television scene at least in 2012, but that was always the Left's demand. We were talking about it, we were talking about it again, and now we are doing it. And that's what you're hiding and I think you can't make fun of anyone anymore. With this bill, therefore, we continue the work that we started in January 2015, and with this bill we are attempting to shed plenty of light on a space that has been acting largely in darkness and opaque for decades, with what this can mean for both the public good of information and for the democracy of the country. We're trying to regulate a year's strife. What should we do? To regulate the issue of the licensing of television stations which, to date, operate in a transitional regime. And businesses should function in accordance with rules and standards similar to those applied throughout Europe. We want and want - and I think we have also demonstrated with this legislative intervention, Mr President - that we break dependencies. We are trying with open procedures to shape a sound television field and from this process I am sure that society will come to an absolute win, first and foremost and, at the same time, to move forward by implementing the very big areas and reforms that the place needs right now. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] As I do not have much time, I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by the ministers in relation to regional channels. However, in order to avoid any blurred landscapes or no peak, for which there could be criticism, I think that where you say that for the licence the minimum number of staff of the candidates is set by the joint ministerial decision of the ministers of regional information or non-information, they should be added: in proportion to the population, the GDP of the region is important, geographically or at least geographically specific, because mainland Greece cannot be the same as islands and we understand it, nor Trikala, for example is it the same as Thessaloniki or Yannina. And in any case, I think a minimum number of workers should be introduced. For example, you may mention the eight or ten persons you can judge. Let me conclude, Mr President, by saying this: the government will continue to legislate towards removing the distortions created today by all the previous media. We will continue to act with emphasis on both democracy and credibility and transparency and labour protection. We know very well that society is at our side in this struggle and we are determined to try to get it to the end. We inform the Opposition, in particular, that no matter how much it tries to get out of it, it is the specific character that it has 'Give him an agreement and whatever it may be', no matter how much he tries to put on a new character - that you die more antimony you die - and no matter how much he tries to deceive himself of this bill about 'Black' in ERT, I think he can no longer convince anyone. And we call on you, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of counter-population - to change the rhetoric, because at this very moment the country but also democracy need a very responsible opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u657	Mr President, could I have the floor for a few seconds? I don't want the dentistry, we're quitting anyway. For a few seconds I'd like you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u658	You have the floor, Mr Lappa, for a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u659	Mr President, I was amazed to hear the representative of the Potamio, Mr Theocharis, in the temple of democracy, in the Greek Parliament, not even much like the Minister of the elected government and elected ruling party with the ideological instrument of the seven-year-old dictatorship, i.e. Yorgalas. And I would like to say to him: if his party is placed in the geographical political area of the centre, at least it is obliged to show the democratic morale required to the people elected by the Greek people. That is what democracy is demanding. And I want to say another thing to him: what was practical in the political days of the ruling party, which was what John Dewey said, that politics is the shadow of big business and society, we will reverse it, Mr Theocharis, and we will tell you that we will do our utmost to do what the policy can to be the shadow of democracy over companies and businesses. This is what we are trying to do with the bill and all the likeness you have made was at least unfortunate and saddens me unquestionably.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u660	I don't know if Mr. Theocharis wants to make a repackage or correction. As you appreciate, Mr Theochra. It would help.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u661	I do not want to be like the entire government for the obviously seven years. We are always talking about an elected government, and we recognise that. We're all graves of democracy. But I cannot recognise that we are talking about a bill that takes powers and gives it to the relevant Minister, and the Minister should think that it will not always be a Minister and that one of them, whom he calls enemies of democracy in this Parliament, should have his place, even in democratic procedures. He should be very careful that what he didn't like was that I called it, that he would cause his creation. He must be very careful when he brings such bills to the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u662	Thank you for the political comment, Mr Theocharis. The Minister has asked for the floor for a brief answer and we are closing down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u663	Mr. Theochari, I hope you have revoked your designation. If that is the case, it is absolutely acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u664	It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u665	Any minister who comes to my position, if the process is completed, will not be able to do anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u666	How can he not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u667	No, he will be able to make new permits, because they will have been fully legally awarded. He won't be able to answer any calls or threaten. And I will not be able to do anything about this government, when we decide and come to an end and the competition begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u668	Who's gonna define them then?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u669	Do you have any impression that we have this expectation, that we check the media? That we overestimate their ability to influence public opinion? Have we not seen how we from a small party arrived to the government at the moment, while at the same time accepting war incomprehensible? Haven't we assessed them? We just have the highest issue of responsibility, because we are sitting here to pay everyone what the law says and what the law says. And if the law predicts little, pay more. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u670	What does it have to do with what we're gonna pay for...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u671	This has something to do with it. Because the criticism we have been accepting these days is that any move we make, whether speeding or delaying or bringing it or not, is about opening up the means.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u672	What does payment have to do with what you're saying now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u673	We don't say things no matter what, Mr. Aegean. We don't say things no matter what. Vote, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u674	What does the recovery have to do with the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u675	Don't have a dialogue, please. Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u676	I respond to the criticism, the systematic criticism, that we want control over the substance...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u677	Clearly. It can't be more clearly done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u678	Yeah, all right. So this criticism is now too weak. Because once this procedure has been completed, the holders of legal licences, if they apply the law and are typical of their obligations, will have no need for the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u679	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u680	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u681	But don't do it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u682	Let me take the floor, too, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u683	I think you've answered. I assume that you accept - only that point, I will say - of course not what the Minister said, that you are obviously withdrawing the term and we are very pleased about it. You made a political thinking before, absolutely respected. But there's no reason to go on. I think we've got it. We are under political criticism. See you Saturday, anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the Minister of State's Legislation: "Authorisation of the contents of digital terrestrial television broadcast free of charge - Establishment linked to ERT SA. anonymity company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Arrangement of themes of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts (E.T.) - National Communication Policy, Organisation of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of a National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and the Register for Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of provisions of the Law. Regulation (EC) No 4070/2012 (VAT A' 82) and other provisions.’; Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u684	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u685	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u686	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u687	On Saturday, with the specialization that we expect the government to accept the proposals made by the PASOK - DIMAR and the committee as well as by the Plenary Session.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u689	In principle, we will be waiting for some answers, Mr Ministers, on the timing of the opening of the tender procedure, the time of completion of the licence and the rest on Saturday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u690	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u691	Consequently, the Minister of State's draft law: ‘Authorisation of providers of free-of-charge digital TV content - Establishment linked to ERT SA. anonymity company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Arrangement of themes of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts (E.T.) - National Communication Policy, Organisation of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of a National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and the Register for Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of provisions of the Law. 4070/2012 (VAT A' 82) and other provisions’ were accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u692	Mr President, I cannot call you what I want to say because it is a matter of particular emotional burden for us and I want you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u693	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u694	Look, Mr President, we have discussed here many times here in the Group of the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR for the loss of one of our companions from Patras, Christos Diopoulos, who was buried today. We'd be many of us today to wish him a good trip on his last trip. We could not do this because our parliamentary obligations have us here, but we felt the need to make this mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u695	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. We share your grief. Ladies and gentlemen, let us note that on Saturday the debate on the bill will begin with the speeches of the rapporteurs and the special speakers on the articles and amendments, the remaining speakers will follow and then speak on the articles and the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-22-S1-commons.u696	The sitting is closed for the day 23 October 2015 at 12 noon, on the subject of Parliament's proceedings: a special agenda, a special plenary session of Parliament, at which the President of the French Republic will be invited to attend the Greek Parliament and will be addressed to this House. It is noted that on Saturday, October 24, 2015, at 10.00, there will be legislative work, continue to debate and vote for the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Minister of State "Authorization of terrestrial digital broadcasting content providers - Establishment linked to ERT SA. anonymity company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Arrangement of themes of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts (E.T.) - National Communication Policy, Organisation of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of a National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and a Register of Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of provisions of Law 4070/2012 (Government A' 82) and other provisions.
