ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Democratisation of Administration - Combat Written and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions". Mr Antigone Lyberakis has the floor for seven minutes, followed by Ms. Hara Kafantaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Within the many and various provisions of this bill, within the important and the least important, the right, the right, the wrong, the greatness and the smallest, there is also a small amendment, an innocent and discreet amendment, which regulates the financing of deficits in primary and secondary insurance bodies. In other words, it extends the use of two accounts, which are sub-accounts of the AACC, the famous Generation Solidarity Insurance Capital, which was established with drum impacts in 2008 with the aim of resolving the issue of long-term viability of the insurance system. So these two sub-accounts, which were to cover social security deficits, that is to say, spending instead of saving, and they were going to stop doing this and fuel the basic account on 1-1-2015, now we learn that they will remain on its side to give, that is, spending, not saving, until 1-1-2019, that is, a terrible extension of the memorandum. The question is, then, what is it, after the super enthusiastic wordings that the insurance has been solved and the projections say that 2050 will have substantially reduced the burden of the insurance system in the economy, how do we need to prolong two sub-accounts, which in fact derive from the capital that we are supposed to save in the long term for the solidarity of the generations? I think that here, ladies and gentlemen, we have a shitty case where, in the words of the words, we have solved the insurance policy, but on a very long-term basis. In other words, with the gradual introduction of the Law of Loverdus, the figures are actually up after 2030, but in the meantime, there are still considerable deficits that we continue to pay for. In fact, this is a recognition of the continuation of exceptional monumental situations, of exceptional memorandumary measures, up to 1-1-2019, and this raises two major issues, a matter of solidarity within social security institutions and a second issue of solidarity between generations. I should like to explain why both are important: the problem with a lack of solidarity within social security institutions arises from a paradox that we have an insurance system, which is participatory, but at the same time is also distributive. What does that mean? It means that where you have - as always in the economies - sectors to increase employment and contributions and others to fall, this cannot be balanced, unless they are under the same umbrella, within the same system. The example is known, I always use it for my students and students: You have an economy in which the pipelines are reduced and truck drivers are increased. This is a principle which has nothing to do with globalisation or with a memorandum or a memo. Although both are not in the same fund, the dynamic part of the increasing population of truck drivers helps to pay the pensions of the ever older pipelines. But if it's in a different fund, then you have a fund with surpluses and a fund with deficits and a permanent stagnation. The right solution - obviously and clearly - has been being discussed in Greece since the 1930s and there was a defeat by the Venizelos Government with the Minister of Social Welfare Mr. Vourloumi's grandfather under the same name - has never been able to integrate them into a single umbrella and even the younger efforts of unification have essentially unified the hall and calculated the pension in a different way for each category. A cowardly step was taken by the law of Sifa in 1992 with LEFKA, who was festively abducted with an absolute cross-party synonym of PASOK and New Democracy in 2004. The second and newest effort was on Petrala in 2008, which according to the standards of the Norwegian Generation Solidarity Fund created the AACC. Then, in the memorial years, two sub-accounts were made. The idea of the AACP is that we are putting money, which we are not tempting until 2019, to build a chapter that will somewhat balance the issues of sustainability and the adequacy of pensions in the future. But, at the same time, they put two sub-accounts with the exact opposite objective: not saving, but getting money from there. One went to cover primary insurance deficits and the other for subsidiary insurance deficits. These accounts, which should be closed on December 31, 2014 and transferring their money from 1-1-2015 to the central account for the young people who will once get out and have no pension, are what is being extended now. So we have a continuation of this situation and what does the government say? It says: It is legal - of course - that continues a practice of the previous government - right - but it hides the issue of the elephant in the room. The issue of solidarity between generations is a shorter and more painful one. In fact, the patterns of creating such accounts, like Norway, say that today's generation cannot eat all the resources available and leave nothing for the future. That's why they too made gas revenues this super savings account for the future generation, which is currently the largest social security account in the world. He's got 900 billion dollars. We got the good idea and as bad replicators we made the ACAGE, which is perhaps the smallest saving account in the world of 3.1 billion, as we see on the site, from which we also have two "CAGAKIA" accounts that get resources. It is very unpleasant that neither the issue of solidarity within insurance institutions, nor, above all, the issue of sexual solidarity, is dealt with by this amendment. We are putting the problem under the carpet again, pretending that we do not see the elephant in the room and actually prolong a system which is unfair, is non-viable and which actually says "whoever saw the Lord". It is time to speak frankly, because once the young people who contribute or contribute, when they manage to find a job, must also receive a pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. Mrs. Kafantari Charula from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the government is firmly committed to its election commitments gradually to the implementation of its programme. After a series of bills, such as the humanitarian crisis bill, the opening up of the ERT, the regulation of public debts with a hundred instalments, we are today discussing the bill on the democratisation of public administration, the fight against bureaucracy and the restoration of injustice. Some people have been raped in public consultation to characterise this bill as a unilateral energy, such as all the others to date, but have fallen out again. The bill is being discussed here in the Greek Parliament. It is a bill, as the Minister described it as first aid for the public administration, because it really concerns the first steps of rational democratic functioning of the state, while trying to heal commemorative wounds at first stage after five years of memoranda, which brought social misery, the humanitarian crisis, people who have lost their jobs, the life data suddenly collapsed for them. It is a first step towards declaring the state and public administration from the blockages of communism, anxiety, bureaucracy, which made public administration really a foreign body hostile to society. So we are taking the first steps for a state for everyone, where the exclusive objective of public administration is to serve the citizen and society, with workers who are not afraid, not to bend their heads to not lose their jobs, or to not be found available, as the previous government did, I would say, literally, irreversibly, perhaps, because it was plunging the head into creditors, and dealing with civil servants as figures alone. A state which has been permanently working to date - and which we call 'no' - and before the memorials, of course, in the interests of private interests, serving political and party friends. The democratic reform of public administration is also reflected in the functioning of the private sector. We are no longer talking about a state-owned private sector, but about a private sector that is innovative, healthy and truly competitive, which, along with the public sector, will make a decisive contribution to the productive reconstruction of our country. Since yesterday's plenary session on the bill, a lot has been heard. We have, above all, received lessons from the New Democracy, and I would say, independently of the public, with complaints of partyism about the government's policy. While, of course, we have heard - unfortunately - cheap arguments at a personal level against the relevant Minister. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, we do not accept lessons from those who have become our country and the public administration here who have brought it today with your policies. We respond to you, however, with more democracy and the main feature of this bill is democracy and rationality. Is it not the abolition of the mainstreaming of the workers' political backing to break strikes? Many examples during the Memorandum of Understanding. However, responsiblely from the government - now government - is maintaining the commitment for reasons of public health. That is what is referred to in Article 1 and let us not be demagogled, I would say, on this particular point. I'll come to something else. Generally, however, the provisions of Article 41 of the EC Treaty. 3536/2007 satisfactorily covered the need for the occurrence of natural technological disasters, laid down more stringent criteria for the activation of the procedure in relation to the 1974 Act, and prevented the misuse of the measure by local authorities. The implementation of the personal service task has been only a few times in the event of disasters, where there were generally no particular problems in its implementation. Of course, another order, another return. But, Minister, since we are talking about civil protection and civil defence, it is possible to review the law. Date of birth: 17/1974. I now come to the disciplinary procedure, Articles 3 to 7. Positive and fair the restoration of the presumption of innocence and all changes in the enforcement of the rightful holiday. But what about those civil servants who have already been on a long self-righteous holiday, because they have been brought to trial, which is still pending and will be pending for a long time? When their case is finally tried and acquitted, there is provision for a fair redress beyond moral harm by automatic payment of wages which have been unfairly deprived or will have to start a judicial struggle to claim the amounts due to a public administration which it considers to be its duty to apply to a higher degree, so that the judicial cases will not end until decades. Do you, Minister, have there to be a procedure for a rapid delivery of justice in these cases? Finally, it is a good thing that the Minister is committed to the new public service code, a new disciplinary law aimed at improving the performance of civil servants, and not at punishing them, along with a serious system of evaluation, which has never had the public to date. I now come to Article 28 on decentralised administrations. It is right to abolish the Secretary-General Decentralised administration and replace it with the Coordinator. Perhaps the only thing that should have been considered more is whether the Coordinator could have been through the Decentralised Administration, through the same officials, as is done in all ministries for similar posts. We believe, however, that by abolishing the 'CALCARARATIO', such as the Government and the Minister responsible, there will be rationalization in this regard. Finally, a number of amendments have been tabled. Most relate to the restoration of injustices, due to monumental policies, followed by the Memorandum of Understanding. However, I cannot, ladies and gentlemen, refer to the amendment concerning the IGM, whose workers were literally on the streets throughout the previous memorial period and after the KYYA 25200 of 2011, which placed part of his staff in a specific reserve regime. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a question of restoring injustices against workers. This is a restoration of the role of the IGM - Institute for Geological and Mining Research - with over sixty years of history in the field of research into the mineral wealth of our country. In the current circumstances, it can and must continue, as the advisor to the Greek state as a public research institute, to contribute to the productive reconstruction of our country at the difficult times in which we are and are in progress. I suggest that you look at this amendment in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. Mr. Kikilis has the floor and Mrs. Nikki Kerameos will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. It was submitted to committee a few days ago - it is also discussed in plenary today - a bill entitled 'Democratisation of Public Administration' by a left-wing government. At first reading, one would imagine - or at least hope - that they, against conservatives, backwards, memorialists, public administration sceptics, have some fantasy, a new structure of public administration, advanced proposals, thoughts about modernising public administration. They have to submit a bill with divisions, with changes, with possible estimated risks, so that the country can move forward. Only the title irritates imagination, Minister. One would expect to hear new, modern, fresh things from a progressive, say, party. You are told by the Scientific Committee of Parliament that it is not only about the democratisation of public administration. That's all. I think everyone is aware by studying the draft law you have brought to the vote, that you are concerned, firstly, with the poorly understood trade unionists. You bring them back to disciplinary boards, recruiting the Anglo-Saxon Law. I mean, the same people are on trial. Is disciplinary boards a court? Of course, you could also make it a popular court. I'm not a lawyer. However, I think everyone understands that their dissolution is contrary to the public interest and the functioning of the majority of civil servants who are consistent, are creative, are workers. Just level everyone. I have a slight observation: the convicted bribery officer cannot leave prison and work at a ministry. However, the political engineer, referred irrevocably to the time of Mr Mitsotakis, say - for a briefcase, but not confiscated, will continue to issue permits. So, the gangrene, the rag, so that something can run and move on to that country, actually what do we do? We're rewarding her. And we also give it labels: 'Democratization of public administration'. So this is the prestige of public administration! And I say it because it's a comedy, the fair holiday, as you say it. This is impunity. That's the reality. Secondly, Minister, I am against all those who think it is not legitimate to practice your profession, to be paid and to be interested in your customers. Well done, I agree with you! I'm signing it 100%! However, you should have the vigilance - and this is a common place for all of us, regardless of whether they are obliged to support you in this - if you would like to have the Prime Minister appointed you, to do so to another ministry and not to the specific ministry in which your members are in a court dispute. Or is it inconsistent with their interest in the public interest, which you are in fact defending? Why, Mr. Deputy Minister, tell me when the pay of 12%, 7%, 8%, 15% is for you or us activism? You will, of course, tell me since the troika began to call itself a 'institutional'. You are also representing mayors, of course, who refused to provide information on the re-checking of illegal money laundering. You know, these mayors are controlled for duty violation. You are now abolishing the legal basis of their criminal prosecution. So basically, you'll relieve them before they're even tried. There's private sector for thousands of lawyers. The arrangements you intend to impose create a huge malfunction in public administration. That's the reality. I realize it's none of your business. You don't know how much time you'll be in your position. But I would ask you not to mock us and mock us, saying that this whole story will cost EUR 72 million. Such accounts are made by Hatziavatis, "Mine and mine." Have you cost what it means to reinstate those on holiday? Of course, I understand that this is a pre-election commitment from the SYRIZA. I have only one question: where will you find this EUR 72 million, when Mr Marda and the rest of you admit that you have no money for wages and pensions or for the next fortnight? So you live in virtual reality? So there's money? We don't know anything about you or the world? Thirdly, you have been told that you are interested in your election clientele. Mr Voutsis said so sincerely that in recent years you have consistently supported things that you are now coming to implement. You propose the status of constitutionalist, Minister, leaving short-term contracts uncontrollable. You are provoking without investigating the number of civil servants and using the ASAP, for which you are unregulatedly stealing the praise, and the truth is that you are putting it in the corner, punishing it. I would also like to say something about the requirements, since you mentioned this as an example, Mr Minister: if the issue of public health, hygiene in the Municipality of Athens is raised, let me say - and something needs to be done about the dump, and there may be five million people at risk of health, what will you do? Look, you keep the knife. We will not agree to slap public administration into the surgery of misguided populism. I would like here to point out that unfortunately, on the basis of a plan, you are operating and maintaining - not personally, but your Government - a division, a intolerance, a propaganda, which leads nowhere. This is proof of the fact that the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is here again today. I must say that there is no committee or draft law in which it has not been present, not to be present. Minister, on the basis of what I have said, division, intolerance and propaganda, you do not trust your colleagues, obviously, because you do not think they deserve to be abusive to us, as you systematically do all these days. This cannot lead to either national agreement or agreement at the very difficult times that we are experiencing. If you call your memory all these days, you will unfortunately see - I repeat - what intolerance, division and propaganda you have concluded. It is time, just before the disaster, to decide that we all have to unite and support this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-seven students and students and two teachers from the 27th Municipal School of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Kerameo, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my concerns about the draft law are on four main lines. Firstly, the number of civil servants is growing, without prior needs investigation and without programming. As we all know, massive staff returns are planned. The main problem is that the actual needs of the administration do not seem to have been examined before and whether such recruitment is indeed necessary. Based on the Ministry's estimate of 72 million annual fees for these recruitments, we are talking about about about four thousand new recruitments that are deducted, on the basis of the Minister's name, from the limit of eleven thousand recruitments as a whole for the entire public sector in 2015. Minister, I think that the Greek taxpayer's question is reasonable: Have you investigated what needs are there in the public sector? Have you investigated whether all four thousand civil servants are needed? Have you weighed that each of these staff you massly reinstate is more necessary than filling out the very important gaps that exist in the public sector human resources? The second example is the permanentisation of officials who are not in the hands of private law workers for an indefinite period, with the pretext of facilitating their mobility within the administration, but of permanentisation of those employees without control of contracts, without planning, without any prior investigation of real needs. The third example is that by regulating Article 26(6), the process of reviewing simulations in the public sector is to be abolished. I ask, Minister: What could the simulations re-control be harmful to, how much more so when they were proved in practice by means of this mechanism so many simulations that should not have been carried out? Last example regarding the recruitment process for seasonal staff: the adoption stage is repealed by the Committee of the Ministerial Council Act 33/2006. The pretext? The quickest coverage of these needs. In this way, the central administration will lose all control over the recruitments that will be charged with the budget of the agencies. The Committee on Public Administration has been told that it was late for the PES committee to meet, and that is why it must not take a decision on the recruitment of seasonal staff. I ask: would it be more appropriate to find ways to speed up the control process instead of abolishing it? Second reflection: this draft law affects the impartiality and objectivity of public administration procedures. One example - it has been said by my colleagues - is Article 5 which provides that the disciplinary boards add elected representatives of the persecuted officials and trade unionists of the ADED and of the WTO - OTA. The result will be a change in the crisis of disciplinary boards. How do we know? This system has been tested in the past. Jurisdiction of administrative examinations never reached the disciplinary boards and were eventually filed. Even if they arrived, the elected representatives systematically had an acquittal crisis towards their persecuted colleagues. So the concept of disciplinary justice is considerably diminished and the old malfunction of disciplinary bodies is restored. Thirdly, there is impunity. For example, there are limited cases where the penalty for definitive cessation can be imposed. Fourth reflection: issues of constitutionality arise. For example, Article 1 lists the reasons why an order may be ordered: in the event of a risk of public health, a need for the defence of the country and so on. The same Article 1 provides in particular that the requirement cannot be imposed as a measure to deal with the strike. I ask, Minister: what if the strike itself poses a public health risk? As the law stands, it obviously cannot be ordered. However, the Council of State has already decided on the issue in three decisions in 2014 and has decided that the right to strike will disappear against the good of public health. So the provision you are proposing involves elements of unconstitutionality. By the way, Minister, what if the strike is judged to be illegal and abusive? Should the order not be allowed in this case? The draft law still doesn't allow it. Secondly, where unconstitutional issues arise: the institution of self-determination, which in practice protected the authority of the public administration, is inactivated. Minister, you have explained to us that the main reason why you are proposing the abolition of the right-wing holiday is the protection of the presumption of innocence. We may have discussed this, but if the judicial authority had not already decided on the matter. The judiciary has already decided on the matter with the decision of the Council of State 1900/2014, which considered that the measure of self-just holiday is constitutionally acceptable as an administrative measure for the smooth functioning of the administration. So since justice has already decided on the matter, will the legislator come to question it? Third example: you are providing age limits for the presidents and two constitutional members - I repeat, constitutionally - guaranteed independent authorities, the Citizens' Counselor and the ASEP, and indeed, you announced, Minister, that these age limits will be extended to all independent authorities. The most serious thing, however, is that you are in any case considering the immediate implementation of this arrangement and therefore also for the current Presidents and Members of independent authorities who are now in office. In other words, by means of this arrangement, you legislate on a self-determination in the course of the term of office of all the current Presidents and members of the independent authorities that may exceed these age limits. However, the legislator deliberately provided for a term of office for these members and specifically provided for it as a guarantee and as a basis for their independence. You must therefore, as a minimum, provide that the new age limits will not apply to those who are now in office, otherwise, Minister, this is a direct interference with the independent authorities and possibly a violation of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the draft law shows on many points an effort to restructure the important progress that has been made in recent years in the functioning of public administration. It is obvious that it manifests a clear regression trend. On this point, however, I consider it my duty to say, in the context of sincere and productive dialogue, that there are also arrangements for the project that are moving in the right direction. I am referring, for example, to the arrangements in Article 12.1, concerning the automatic search of documents by the competent authority, as well as the arrangements in Article 11, which establishes the keeping of a record in the AACC. Unfortunately, however, these provisions are very few and especially very small in view of the very serious risks posed by the operation of the public administration by the implementation of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Kerameau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u11	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u12	For a minute, Madam President, something that has been said about me personally by the previous speaker does not go unanswered. I would like to invoke the Minutes of these three months, to indicate to me at least one of the most prosperous, which I have said about anyone in this House or in the committee. You know very well that for reasons of principle and values - each of us has such a scale, which, if you like, is also exposed to public space - and I speak personally, I have never seen and have never beaten down or above the belt. And the nomine! I never respond to such efforts. In this sense, anything else, which is a hard political controversy, or what has happened or what is going to happen from now on, is absolutely within the limits of Parliament's functioning and there has never been an issue, at least for me, as has been put before by my colleague, Mr Kikilia. In other words, whether or not I attend the bill debate, I will tell you that it happened to be all the bills of my own ministries. You know that. That's what this is about. It's nothing else, and I haven't been convicted. I've got so many jobs in the Department. I would just like it to be recorded. If there's anything in the Minutes these three months that I've been intimidating, please testify. If it doesn't exist, the rest doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u14	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Kikilia, why do you want to speak? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u16	Madam President, I would like to explain to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u17	You can only ask for the floor on staff for no other reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u18	Madam President, I would like to mention specific examples within three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u19	Good. You therefore want to speak on behalf of your staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u20	I ask for the floor, Madam President, for my resignation and, of course, for personal reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u21	Your parliamentary representative may answer for your resignation. On staff, if you want, I'll give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u22	I'm only gonna need thirty seconds, Madam President. Minister, you told us 'fifth pillar of lenders','much hand of interest','servants of interconnected canals', etc. You told us 'to work with those who want to destroy the country from abroad. And what you haven't said these three months! You are in favour of the government, but not at the level of the arguments, but at the level of the confiscation of the Officerial Representation - I repeat - on the basis of division, intolerance and propaganda. And on the other hand, you're asking us to admit to the national effort. The Qualified Opposition offers you this support in order to save the country and you are back in committees and fullheartedly with this phrase. The last time - if you remember - was in the last bill, here in plenary when you had to withdraw what you said. So why do you forsake me for the reality that I remind you of?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u23	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u25	First of all, we don't have to mess with everyone. "Five bay" I haven't told you. That's why I'm telling you, look at the Minutes to see if any of the things you said I mentioned. For the last meeting you said, I said that your "long hand" in the media would be cut off the root. If this is an irritant and makes you angry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u26	You have told us 'the servants of the Memorandum' and 'the interior troika'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Kikilia, what are you doing now? I don't understand, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u28	No ‘services’ or ‘domestic troika’. Mr. Kikilia, I'm telling you to spend half an hour looking into the Minutes. No servants or agents or anything I've told you. I have said very systematically, using the language, the essence of politics and how you in here use the arguments that ultimately legitimise the views of the lenders partners. Is that sore? Excuse me. That's what I wanted to do. I'm telling you, look, find and bring it, to clarify things, not anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u29	Mr Christos Dimas, Member of the New Democracy, followed by Mr. Ioannis Stathas by SYRIZA. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mr Dimas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u30	I'm going to need less, Madam President. I do not want to go on with this, but Minister, since you call on the Minutes, I am sure you will also give the same meaning to comments you make after your passionate speeches that may not have been recorded in the Minutes, but the microphones were open and heard. And these may be considered insulting, Minister. I will focus my speech today on just one issue of the bill, which is about the composition of the disciplinary boards. It is a matter of direct concern to both maladministration and corruption in public administration. Strengthening disciplinary responsibility in public administration and speeding up disciplinary procedures should be key priorities for each government. Unfortunately, the government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks rather than focusing on further strengthening disciplinary responsibility, with the draft law under discussion trying to get us back to practices of the Greek public in the 1980s. The previous government strengthened disciplinary boards by upgrading them and giving legal certainty by replacing the present trade unionists with regular judges to proceed with disciplinary boards in fair and objective crises. In this way, the attempt to restore the prestige and credibility of public officials who, for the great majority of them, are doing their duties honestly and consistently, and the effectiveness of public administration is also strengthened. The current government with the bill under discussion restores the elected trade unionists to disciplinary boards. And let me point out at this point that I do not question the behaviour of elected trade unionists, but it is objectively difficult for a colleague to remove. It is what our anointed people say 'Korak eye does not work'. This is also demonstrated in practice, since almost ever before, a elected trade unionist on the disciplinary boards has not voted to remove one of his colleagues for a disciplinary or criminal offence. I think we should all agree that the judges have adequate supplies and impartiality to make fair decisions in favour of the Greek public. During the previous government's term, thousands of outstanding disciplinary cases were examined and the checks for the detection of false supporting and illegal recruitments were introduced. The results of this effort are measurable and demonstrate the progress made in the awarding of disciplinary justice. Nine hundred thirteen removals were made for criminal or disciplinary reasons from 2012 to 2014. Such removals include cases of officials who have committed very serious disciplinary offences, committed serious criminal offences and sentenced final and irrevocable, as well as cases of officials who have been systematically and unjustly absent from their services for a long time or cheated on the public, as they have manufactured false titles or misleaded their true qualifications or other certificates necessary for their appointment. Just to know what cases we are talking about, for example: a municipal official who was absent from 2010 to 2013 for a thousand five days from his duties without a serious reason and who was, of course, unjustified. There are dozens of such cases. A tax advisor who, in the performance of his service, deceived the service with the trick of issuing money orders for alleged payments of municipalities and was privatised against the public illegal asset, a hundred thousand euros, creating an equivalent level of deficit in the management of the fund. An instructor who chaired a disciplinary board has altered a disciplinary decision in order to favour a disciplinaryly persecuted official and has not notified it to the relevant management bodies in order to object to the administration. Taxpayer who changed taxpayer's data. A educator who, within the school field, harassed sexually a student with inappropriate gestures in her genitals. Instructions for forgery using a foreignlanguage degree and for the submission of false declarations. A doctor of the former IKA who indicated to insured orthopaedic types of additional care that were not necessary, resulting in damage to their insurance institution. Building clerk on account of the submission of inaccurate statement of assets. The Head of the Forestry which has failed to carry out his duties in time, has refused to carry out his service and has infringed the principle of non-discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, do you want to protect them? Why do you bring the elected trade unionists back to disciplinary boards? Since the former regime for disciplinary boards has not produced disciplinary justice, with the result that cases remain in the drawer or have the procedure not been completed. Why are you trying to restore the former failed regime? I invite you to rethink this and realize that we are not only taking many steps backwards, but you are giving the impression that you want to put an obstacle to disciplinary and criminal control within the public sector, which I am sure is not the case and you would not want to give the impression that this is the case. I therefore ask you to withdraw this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Christos Dimas. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Ioannis Stathas has the floor. Mr. Georgios Diaras, too, should be prepared by SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Statha, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the beginning, and it is certainly not what we as SYRIZA expected for this change to take place, which we wish to see done so quickly for those injustices that have been done in the public administration, for this mismanagement, for all that I have heard and which are done over the years when SYRIZA was certainly not ruling. But I see Mr. Mitsotakis here, who has been in power for so many years. And some people have been in power since 1945. So we are not responsible for all that they have said. That's the first. Secondly, on what criteria have those who have been prosecuted all this time? The school guards were prosecuted. Then they had other school guards who cost a lot more to the Greek public. I'm just bringing an example to school security guards. These school guards, then, proved to be costly. They put the 72 million bills in. Indeed, the CEDEFOP studied and saw that for schools that destroyed more money. We had less money than the budget. But we had to show the lenders that we were firing the world! I notice your style, Mr. Mitsotakis, the way you look at us. You must respect us a little. We're asking for some respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u33	I don't understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u34	Don't look that way. Show some respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u35	I don't understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u36	A little respect for your colleagues!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u37	Gentlemen, please sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u38	Can't I walk already? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u39	A little respect, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u40	Take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Mitsotakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u42	Show some respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u43	I reserve the right to leave whenever I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u44	Of course, but the style counts how they leave and leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u45	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u46	You too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u47	Go on, Mr. Statha.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u48	Thirdly, we saw people who were persecuted, like cleaners and we put contractors costing above. We just had to present numbers that would show the lenders that we reduced the number. Then they wanted blood. In fact, most Members - and PASOK and the New Democracy - disagreed when we spoke in private when these bills went through. In fact, we were not talking about high-wage people or people who had done all these evils and evils and were responsible for the public administration. Not at all! So, at the moment, the government is coming to restore an injustice. There are certainly too many changes in public administration. As Minister Katrugalos said yesterday, this is a principle for restoring the injustices, for the strong were not persecuted by the Greek public administration, but by the weak. Mr. Theocharis here knows. You kicked out the cleaners that were under the Ministry and were there every day...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u49	You're saying that to me? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u50	No, I didn't say about you. It was every day under your ministry. They also created issues and could not work. I know very well these cleaners didn't cost anything. I'm telling you why you're here, and we've talked about it. Mr Theocharis, in fact, has tried to hire them. He was pushing the government - and Mr Mitsotakis, who left - to hire them because he was seeing this injustice. I would also like to comment on something else that has been heard here about disciplinarys. First of all, the majority is not the elected, the ones you have said. There must be people from the workplace. I call it a private worker. In the private sector everything has been removed at the moment, that is to say, it can drive the worker away any time it wants. There's a slaver. A corresponding culture and an injustice that existed went to the public sector too. Those who commit offences must be punished for sure. We have here a number of cases, as I see in the article on disciplinary misconduct. Everything predicts in it. He even speaks of a misconduct in the event of negligence or incomplete performance of the service. What he says in, I bring it as an example. They're all persecuted. So the majority, and the five-member, are not among the elected. Three are not public workers. Of the five, the two are heretic. So what you say and what you are saying is obsessed with it. I'm sure it must be someone who represents the worker. I will ask you the following question, which I shall address to everyone. Once, once in a million, this worker is right and has been persecuted, what if he doesn't find his point? We have seen people who have been sentenced to death and who have been acquitted after many years in court and who have been innocent. However, they were executed. We've got cases like this. This is a simple example. So you know very well when on a disciplinary board there are people from the workplace, this guy knows better. They can say things that are not familiar with the five - I say that, without questioning the other three - and saying things that affect the opinion of the other three, because we do not forget what is happening in the administration. Many times in the past, many civil servants were also persecuted for political reasons. They had done this before. We have to protect them. In addition, I would like to say and end with this, since Mr Voutsis is here - Mr Voutsi, I will not go on with the bill, I congratulate you on the effort you have made, along with Mr Katrugalo, certainly need a lot more effort - to bring the bill immediately to change the electoral law and to go to the simple analogy. We have promised that, Mr Voutsis, in any case as a government, we must bring it right away and everyone here together should go with the simple analogy to the next elections, so that some scenarios, which are heard late, stop being heard and some celebrate for various twists, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u51	I would like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u52	I've already announced Mr. Deiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u53	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u54	On staff, I'd be happy to. I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u55	To God, it's nothing! Mr. Stathas said I fired the cleaners. I have to answer. And thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer that. It's obvious...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u56	Whoa, whoa, whoa! I didn't say that. I said you were seeing the fired cleaners.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u57	Good, I can see them. I just don't want you to fall victim to the then Maximus misinformation. Mr. Murousis, he was trying very orchestrated to raise the point that the cleaners' dismissal is my business. It wasn't my issue, it was a matter of other people's politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u58	We agree on that. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Stattha, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u60	I'm sorry, I'd like to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u61	Yeah, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u62	I barely applauded your position. Nothing but what you're saying. I said it was a bad thing to see and pressure the government to hire them. That's what I said. Nothing but what you're saying. And it seems in the Minutes that that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Diaras George, from SYRIZA, then Mr. Nektarios Santorinios, also from SYRIZA, will speak. I would ask you to stop the dialogue there, Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Statha! Thank you! Here, Mr. Deiaras, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time I take the floor in plenary, you will allow me to make a small introduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u66	That's a good start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u67	Firstly, I am very honoured that the Greek people have chosen me to represent him in Parliament, but I also feel very much responsible. In order to respond to this responsibility, I will try wisely, taking part in the dialogue, to approach the truth and to give correct solutions to the problems. I represent SYRIZA, but at the same time I represent another place, the area of political ecology. We worked together as Green Ecole with SYRIZA and supported him. I participated in the SYRIZA ballots and was elected MP. The area of political ecology, having at the heart of politics the issues of sustainability at every level on the planet, country, economy, society, combines this policy with social justice policies, because without social justice we cannot build a society that cooperates in order to achieve general sustainability. I also wanted to observe two things from my experience in Parliament. Firstly, I regret the fact that sometimes barbaric controversies are being created and heavy characterisations are being used that give the Greek people a bad picture of Parliament, they also downgrade politics and we politicians in the eyes of citizens. We must keep Parliament's image high, and this will be a great service in the case of democracy. A second point I would like to make is that the time is often abused by the ministers and the parliamentary representatives, and that is not the right time for Members to speak. I would like this Bureau to regulate it, to intervene, because democracy is not to deny the rights of others by violating the Rules of Procedure many times using double or even three times a year. I am pleased at a few meetings of calm interventions and counter-population, as I am pleased with the Minister, who takes the good encouragements and corrects the law, took place in this Chamber here. I have an experience with the public administration, because I was a regional consultant in the Attica Region. What public administration do we have, ladies and gentlemen? What have we lived in previous years, with the responsibility, of course, of those who ruled? And I'm not saying that the opposition didn't have any responsibility. From my personal experience - I have many years of experience as an engineer - we have lived in towns unacceptable situations. Anyone who had the "way" could have obtained a building permit in one month, not fully respecting the legality and someone who followed the absolute legal path could have taken eight months to get a building permit. The usual, then, was fast working. Of course, now there is no building activity to operate, but I think that the reasons for these phenomena have not been removed: Technical services for receiving studies and for monitoring projects receive bad studies or incomplete studies with unacceptable budgets and many vague ones. Neutrality in the studies means that they have new jobs, new prices and huge costing in the projects. Public works - and we must take care of that - cost on average three times more than the corresponding private projects. Why is that? I cannot accept it as a Greek citizen. In other words, I cannot accept that Greek taxpayers' money must be wasted in this way, because we have such a public administration that allows for phenomena that are similar to what we are discussing. Another phenomenon: there is no proper utilization of public workers. Special scientists with many postgraduate degrees are deceived, since they do not have the opportunity to use what they studied. Thus, in ministries, regions, municipalities as a rule, while there is sufficient and surplus scientific staff with dozens of technicians, there are no building or refresher studies. All this is given out to private offices. A student of architects, specializes, comes to the public and out of exceptions - I know exceptions - just fills out papers. He's getting into a process. It's not exploiting. Why? Because we, as a country, have allowed this kind of dismantling of scientists. The conditions which favoured both the complexity and all these phenomena, which brought us here, must be lifted. It's the time crew. This bill, of course, touches a lot of issues, but we expect the respective ministers to bring, after full consultation and thorough dialogue, a new bill that will completely change the government so that all the malicious things that have come from the past are not observed. These modernizations that came with the bill were necessary. We are voting on the bill, but we know, as the Minister admitted, that this is not enough. The government has a great deal of work to do and will do when it overcome these obstacles and will do so for the sake of the Greek people, for the country, so that it has a sustainable perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Dimitras. Mr Nektarios Santorinios, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate so far has been very revealing. He has shown the poverty of the arguments of counter-population. The New Democracy, through its special speaker and other Members, has three main arguments: One is the neo-colonialism of the state union. So, what's he telling us? ‘Is it possible for workers' representatives to participate in disciplinary boards?’. My answer is that it is possible to discuss whether they will be involved, because that is a different concept of philosophy. It's a different conception of ideological. We're on the other side. That's true. Your perception of workers is that you want them underhand, that you want them political customers for your ruffles. On the other hand, we consider their workers to be our partners. It is these people who will be called upon to implement the individual government policy, not to be accused of helping our friends. So, and obviously, they must have a reason for disciplinary boards, which ultimately concern them. The second basic argument is Article 1(2). Firstly, in all these strikes, as the Minister has said, strike workers are obliged to have security. Secondly, was it true that teachers thought of making a strike a threat to public health? Is that so tragic? Dress up all the employees in the memorial period in haki. Is that a democracy? That's what we're coming to undo with this arrangement. The third argument we have been told is: 'You are bringing this regulation to the public, you are not interested in the unemployed, but only in your election clientele'. Did these dismissal policies really not contribute to the recession brought about by the armies of the unemployed? These policies have not contributed to the reduction of business turnover, resulting in a bundle of redundancies and redundancies and, therefore, in unemployment in the private sector? On the other hand, we also have PASOK, which told us that they were largely in agreement with many of the articles in the bill, but they will leave the debate if the Deputy Minister continues to represent the government, because there is a conflict of interest. Of course there is a conflict of interest, because we and the Minister have defended those who you have been persecuting for so many years, those who have been saying 'false' for so many years. Because you want a public lame and crippled, felony in the appetites of your political friends. Yeah, we're not on the same bank. We're with the workers, you with the intermittents. That's clear. Of course, the terrible thing was when I heard the first speaker of the New Democracy, who happens to be a former Minister. He spent seven minutes listing us general secretaries and presidents of organizations appointed by the SYRIZA government and said they were our political friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Varvichiotis said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u71	That's right, Mr. Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u72	You said 'the special speaker'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u73	Oh, no. 'The first speaker' I said. A minister, therefore, knows or must know that these positions are political. They are transducers positions aimed at implementing government policy. Partial and clientele is the state that you have made for so many years, with the recruitment of blue and green children in alternating or, together, with armies of contractors, who have held them hostages, with officials who have been overflowing in the ministries - they have, at least, been overflowing - while regional and audit services have been licensed. Because I come from the periphery and know how understaffed its services are. Besides, you have experience of party rule. We recognize that. When this bill came, which has major interventions - and for me the most important is the restoration of the people who were chased, who saw their lives being destroyed in one night, such as school guards, university officials, local police officers, PES teachers - I remembered those days when all these people were fired. Then there was a slogan on the streets we all yelled at together. I will not say the first part of it, so it won't raise a staff issue. I'll just say his second part. Those who are made redundant are not'small'. Those who got fired weren't numbered in a negotiation. They were human lives destroyed overnight and for no reason. This bill restores almost all injustices. However, a subsequent mobility law must also be given the opportunity to those not included in these regulations. Another very important issue in the bill is speeding up the recruitment procedures of fixed-term contractors. As I come from a tourist area, from the Dodecanese, I would like to tell you that we have often had the phenomenon of the OTAs wanting to hire personnel, such as fire-fighting or cleaning staff, and instead of being hired in April when we needed them, the hired took place in September. What are you gonna do with this staff in September, since we didn't have it when we needed it? This issue is healed by this particular bill. This bill hits the core of the memorandum policies. It restores democracy to public administration. Now we are waiting for the next bill of the Ministry, as the Minister said, which will complete the real reform of public administration for a state that is functional, democratic and productive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Santorinio. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the 'Salamis Workshop' educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the Elementary School of Salamis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Chalkida Municipal School. The House welcomes them. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Mitsotakis has the floor now. Mr. Mitsotakis, would you like twelve minutes or would you like to use the dentistry you are entitled to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u75	Let's start with twelve minutes, Madam President, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u76	Mr Petrakos and Mr Theocharis will then have the floor. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to yesterday's introductory speech by the Deputy Minister, who presented the bill we are debating today in plenary. I was amazed that it was not mentioned at all at the beginning of the bill and simply presented the articles. Perhaps he didn't mention the beginning of the bill, because it's a bill without beginning, middle and end. It is an irresponsible, irresponsible and unresponsible settlement of the party's election commitments, which has so invested in the vote of civil servants. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if you would like, a little bit of your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u78	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u79	And I wonder: has the Minister not at all been concerned about presenting us with his overall plan for public administration in the first bill which he submitted to plenary? How does SYRIZA perceive the functioning of the state? Of course, in the last abstraction of his speech, there was a phrase that might be enlightening. The Minister told us he wanted a state for many. I would endure, Minister, that you want a state from many, a state - an employer, a large state. And that is where our different philosophical disagreement about how we understand the role of the state lies. First of all, I would like to clarify some of the basic facts, because perhaps what you have said to us is not good information. Indeed, on the basis of the census systems that the previous governments have established, so that for the first time we have a real picture of the number of civil servants, it is certified that at the beginning of the crisis, at the end of 2009, we had about nine hundred and twenty thousand employees, while at the end of 2014 we had dropped to about six hundred thousand employees. What you told us and which I find interesting is that the Greek State at the beginning of this major crisis, that is, when it had more than nine hundred thousand employees, was about the European average. Where does that come from, Minister? The Greek public, ladies and gentlemen, spent EUR 24 billion on wages at the end of 2009. At the end of 2014 this amount fell to 15.7 billion. If you imagine a state of nine hundred thousand employees again and consider this to be the right size for the Greek State, from where will you find, Minister, the EUR 8 billion to pay the additional wages? And where does it really turn out that we need a state of nine hundred thousand employees? From the outset, we have had a clear view of how we understand the role of public administration and what state we want. Yes, Minister, we want a state that is small, without unnecessary responsibilities and services. We want a state that is modern, a state with simple procedures that will liberate and transparently regulate the functioning of the private economy. We do not want a state that will turn into a businessman - we have seen the results of public business. We do not want a nation-wide employer. We want a state that works at last in terms of minimum costs and best results. Yes, we want a state, which will evaluate and evaluate continuously, trust and ultimately reward the worthy, as well as the excellence of civil servants. I know that "excellence" is a concept which makes you more difficult as a government as a whole if I judge from the point of view of the Minister of Education. But we want the worthy civil servants to be able to reward them and give them a different career perspective. But above all we want a state which, in order to be at the service of the citizen, also respects the Greek taxpayer's money. A state that will be a source of solidarity and values for all of Greece and that can be innovative in introducing new technologies so that it can really facilitate the service of the citizen and businessman. That is the state we wanted, and this state we have attempted to build. And all this project, Minister and colleagues of SYRIZA, was captured in a coherent text, the "Administrative Reform Strategy", which was adopted by the Governing Council of Reform and was implemented at high speed in the eighteen months that I was Minister. We proceeded with a major reorganization of the structures of the Greek state. For the first time, all ministries acquired new organograms through a process of evaluation of structures. Because, how do you really know, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, how many employees need a service if you do not evaluate its structures and if you do not accurately determine what a service should do? You reverse that logic and you want to bring the employees in first and then think about what we're going to do to them. Obviously, this is not the right approach. We have invested in the exploitation of human resources. We have passed a new law for selecting heads, which you are now abrogating. I handed you a new, ready bill on the utilization of civil servants, which you obviously did not consider satisfactory and you would probably have filed in one of the Ministry's wardrobes! We have made a real rationalisation of administrative procedures. We modernized the JEPs, we supported the JEPs. We don't make fragmentary arrangements, like the one you really want to convert JEPs into FEK selling guise. And, yes, we strengthened transparency and accountability in fact, in practice and not in words. I'll come back to this. But it is obvious, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that your ideological directions are different from your policy. Yes, you want a great state. Yes, you want a state in which the trade unions will have the first reason. Yes, you like equilibrium downwards, which eventually leads to an adequacy. I am truly surprised, Minister, that I have measured in your speech at least twelve references to a client state. And it seems to me that you're talking about a client state. And I'm surprised for two reasons. The first is a politician, and the second is a personal one. You know, there were indeed many customers of the traditional parties of power and of PASOK and of the New Democracy, who were accompanied by arrangements of customer relations in the public sector and, in many cases, the passion of the Greek public is due precisely to these customer relations. We have attempted these clientele relations. But, you know what happened? The customers of this large state, who were looking forward to a public appointment, the civil servants who were satisfied with a status of undiversity, what did they do, Minister? They switched to new prostates. They found you, not you personally, but SYRIZA. You inherited the old clients of the political system when the power parties left. That's why you're struggling with fingernails and teeth to defend them. Indeed, our rapporteur is right to say that you have given a new dimension to the 'law is the right of the worker', which was once calling for the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u80	He calls it today, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u81	And now you're calling it, go on. But the Minister says law is the right of the client, the political client, but also of the personal client, Minister. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why are you upset, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u82	You must be upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u83	Wait. You'll hear them. We have a mild climate in the Chamber today. There's no reason to exacerbate things. All the proposals will be heard soberly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u84	The bad news is that you have broken up the institutions too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u85	Wait. You'll hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u86	Forty years. We're tired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u87	Why all of a sudden such a turbulence when we get into the juicy issues? Wait and you'll hear it all. I had you as a colleague. There's no need.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u88	I'm drunk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u89	Mrs. Thelerite, please. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u90	Minister, I have tabled to the Prime Minister, together with Mr Kedicoglou, a question which has indeed been answered by Mr Pappas, as to whether a conflict of interest is established on the basis of the code of conduct of the members of the government, which I know is still valid. I read paragraph 2 of the Code: "Every member of the Government must tell the Prime Minister when taking up his duties any conflict of interest. This conflict should be settled before taking up its duties.’ Minister, I am obviously not doubting the fact that you had a dynamic legal presence before entering politics. However, since you have entered into professional private contracts with your clients, you cannot be in the position where you are. You are the definition of conflict of interest. If the conflict of interest is once taught in a civil science manual, it will have your own name as an example. You could have taken over any other ministry. But you cannot, at this moment, legislate and so make it easier for your old customers. A request was made by three New Democracy colleagues, Mrs Asmakopoulou, Mr Georgioda and Mrs Kerameo. On the basis of this request, the Bar Association was requested to submit copies of the contract contracts, which concern you and the legal corporations to which you participated. Indeed, the Bar Association has returned all these private contracts, which I would just like to present in the Minutes of the House for them to exist. For example, I rescind such a deal with a date 27-1-2015, that is, two days after the SYRIZA Government had been elected, lodged with the Bar Association on 30-1-2015, after you had sworn. For example, it says that the lawyer's remuneration - we do not know what service this is - is due in full and in the event of a compromise, legislative or other out-of-court regulation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In two minutes' time, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not say anything more because in no case is this a personal dispute I have with the Prime Minister. I make all the relevant agreements, along with the transfer of the Bar Association, in the Minutes. Whoever wants to think can see them and can draw their own conclusions. But, Minister, please, especially when you talk about client relations, you should be more careful. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Madam President, I close, so that I do not abuse the time of my dentistry, with one comment on the matter of the independent authorities. I shall return to the debate on the articles. This issue was raised in their speeches and colleagues of the New Democracy, Mrs Kedicoglou, and Mr Kedicoglou, as well as colleagues of the PASOK, referred to it in detail. Will you at last explain what you want to do? Why do you set an age limit on the independent authorities? And, in any case, will the age limit apply without transitional provision? Is there going to be a self-righteous end in the middle of a term of office? Is that what you intend to do? Because if you intend to do this touches the limits of the constitutional coup and you as a constitutionalist should know it better. I would ask you, here and now, to clarify what the government's intentions are. If you want to set an age limit, which will apply from now on, we are open to discuss, look at the conditions and see the reasoning. But under no circumstances will we accept a suspension of the terms of the independent authorities, invoking an age limit that you will now add. I want us to be absolutely clear in this Chamber. The independence of the independent authorities shall be ensured by the fact that they are in office. At a time when you are going to circumvent the term, there are no independent authorities. It was already unacceptable for the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to intervene in the administration of the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts, an excellent independent authority, where he asked for the resignation of the chairman and all the members of the board of directors. What do you want to do at last with the independent authorities? Is it not enough for you to appoint relatives and friends as general secretaries at all positions of responsibility? At last put a brake on this effort, which you are making to see the state as a spoil. Clearly what you intend to do with the independent authorities. I repeat: if your thoughts are to interrupt the terms of the existing members, that is unacceptable and you will find us strongly against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u91	Madam President, I would like the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr Minister, you have the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u93	I shall make three very brief comments. The first principle is that our confrontation lies in how we see the role of the state. This is not about size. The statistics are the ones I was saying. We can see them at both OECD and European Union level. But it's wrong to start the conversation from the cost. The original question is for what purpose do we need the state. Will the state serve its basic social functions which make it a social state, a health, education, education, citizens' safety? Neoliberalism doesn't want that. Neoliberalism wants to transfer massive public resources to the private sector, so as to favour the interests of these few. That is why we are talking about a multitude of states in our own sense and a few states in your own sense. If you see the Scandinavian states, for example, they are states that have a much larger public sector than ours and at the same time are states that have significant entrepreneurship, significant productivity. This is a classic proof that size does not affect when the state organisation is rational. And, obviously, the organization of the state is not rational, because it has been built on this client system, which both parties of old-fashioned communism had established. The second remark is on the independent authorities, the AACC and the Citizens' Co-legislator, from which the original arrangement started. I would remind you that Article 2 of the n. 2190/1994 provided an age limit for the members of the AACC for seven years and for the President of the AACC a age limit for seventy-fifths. This provision has been abolished in the future, and as a result the AACC now has a fairly old composition. At repeated meetings with the president of the AACC I proceeded to a very mild correction. In other words, I have kept the age limit at seventy years for the members of the AACC and have lowered the age limit from seventy-five years to seventy-three years, which you do not call a place in the youth, with the mere thought that in the sixty-seventh year the judge is retired - usually one of the main tanks of the staff of the independent authorities - that is, six years is the term of office of the President of the AACC and of sixty-seven years to reach seventy-three years. This is a perfectly reasonable arrangement, which I repeat after repeated consultations with the President of the IASC, so that it does not appear that there is any targeted arrangement. Then, because I want to introduce objective, general and immaterial regulations, it seemed reasonable to me that this regulation which only concerned our independent authorities of responsibility should be extended to the other independent authorities. I don't think there's any element of surprise. The regulation is general and impersonal, and I therefore believe that there is no constitutional issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u94	Since when will this apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u95	From today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u96	Meaning?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u97	The third thing I want...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u98	No, make that clear first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u99	I'll make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u100	So, if someone's seventy-one years old, he's leaving?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u101	If someone's seventy-one and serves...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u102	Won't he run out of his term?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u103	Wait a minute, shouldn't the age limit be served?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u104	So you'll stop them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u105	Yeah, that's exactly what I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u106	There is no age limit to these principles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u107	You want to change them all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u108	The third issue, on which I must speak, is the issue of conflict of interest. Let me remind you that this was not the case at the outset when - not from this Chamber, from the mobs - the intimacy and slandering attack on me had been unleashed. The original category was that, with the imminent Ministership, I agreedly promised an appointment in exchange for 12%. How did this slandering and totally impatient charge collapse? When I - not you with the document filing - asked the Bar Association to waive legal secrecy and make all the agreements I had concluded public. So when this dirty slander collapsed, it was replaced with the argument I have heard in this Chamber and I will be placed - because this is indeed a matter of principle - if there is a conflict of interest, that is, when a lawyer was a lawyer before, not just before taking up ministerial duties, but before he has a political role before being elected a Member, which was my first political official involvement in politics, beyond social action. Is there, then, a conflict of duties in this case? To be clear, the cause is not that I am looking forward to any interest now from a previous legal case, because any relationship I have with such cases has been definitively broken. The question is: Can anyone who used to serve in the past interests of workers also be Minister? In short, are we even talking about complexity when you represent workers? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Let me make it very clear, because that's the question. Is there a conflict with the public interest with a similar activity? There's a conflict of interest, but it's different. In fact, it is a conflict of interest that we, the Left, have not discovered, nor is it a recent event. One of the historic Prime Ministers of England was Benjamin Disraelli, founder of the ideology of the "Toris". He was a conservative. Unexpectedly in 1845 Desraelli announced that in England there was no nation, but two nations. The nation of the rich and the nation of the poor. This transfer was used later, and Lenin, to tell the obvious, that society is not a single thing, in society there are the upper and lower, the few. We, the Left and I personally, have no occasional relationship with the many, we have an organic relationship with them. We're with them both in the street and in theory and in the courts. Because of this organic and permanent relationship, Gramsey speaks of organic intellectuals. So when I represented these people, I was fulfilling a political role that I continue to fulfil today. Why is there no contrast with the public interest? Because the interests of the many are the general interest and because the law of the many - now that we are not just left of the protest, but left which exercises at least government power - can be a positive law. And we have no conflict of interest in this, because we were serving ourselves and then, we are serving them and now, and it is not my personal issue, I am not practicing a personal policy. I am pursuing the policy that the social left has always pursued and now within a government that is a government of social salvation, precisely in this direction I am still working. Because what we want is indeed a multitude of states and the interests of many I have always served without being any conflict of interest on my part.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u110	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u111	Madam President, I want the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u112	Wait a minute, Mr. Mitsotakis, I'll give you the floor. You, Mr. Loverdo, because you want the floor, I don't understand. You are not a parliamentary representative. So you have no reason at all. You spoke yesterday as a speaker, didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u113	That's right, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u114	But what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u115	There's a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u116	No, there's no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u117	I want you to listen to me. Wait a minute, I'm not going to bother you for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Loverdo, excuse me, so I can hear you and the whole Chamber, I have to give you the floor. I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u119	I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u120	No, because others are ahead of us. When the circle before and to which I have already announced is completed, then I shall give you the floor, do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u121	When is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u122	When Mr Mitsotakis spoke, Mr. Petrakos, Mr. Pappas and Mr. Theocharis spoke. Okay? I'll give you the floor then. Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u123	Not for a minute, just a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u124	For a minute, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u125	Can I use the time of my dentistry, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u126	All right, you can use, you've got three minutes left of denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u127	Hey, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u128	I'll show a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u129	Don't count the cash. Minister, I'm afraid you've taken the floor to give some explanations and made things worse. I have heard the incredible explanation that there is no strife and conflict of interest when we defend the interests of many or the weak, and there is only a conflict when we conflict with the establishment. Really? We criticised you because you have a personal financial benefit, as shown by your contract agreements, facilitating your customers. We don't care who your clients are, if they're cleaners, if they're school security guards, if they're mistresses. That's not what we say, Minister. And, anyway, give us an explanation. The agreements submitted to us by the Bar Association were signed on 27 January 2015. Are you questioning that? And they were filed at the Bar Association of January 30 after you had sworn. What is it that forced you to sign these agreements? These agreements are in your name, so that we do not mock and we are clearly saying that the pay of 12% will also be paid in the event of regulation. You will, in other words, have a financial benefit, and if the company breaks up, the rights concern lawyer George Karugalos. But who are we mocking here, Minister, and you come to us with these morals about the good defenders of the cleaners and bad intertwined fighters? What are you talking about? The conflict of interest is explicitly defined. It was well identified by the liberals of the 19th century, whom you defend. So for another reason, we criticised you. And you have not answered that, Minister. And you're politically and morally exposed. And personally you and the Prime Minister, who has rushed to cover you. I will say nothing more about this. I think that both the society and the citizens that are watching you have reached their conclusions. After all, the evidence and private contracts that have been submitted speak for themselves. If you wish, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, take a look at your conclusions before you come forward next time to applaud - not with too much warmth - the Minister. But I come to the second point. What you are saying to us - to understand - is that the age limit, which is set for all the independent authorities, will apply immediately. In other words, someone who is over seventy should resign because you are moving in the middle of his term to impose a age limit on independent authorities, which are not of age. Really, is that how you understand the independent authorities? When you, as a constitutionalist, were struggling for the constitutional assurance of the independent authorities, did you realise that? How, in other words, is the independence of an independent authority guaranteed if the mandate of those responsible for it is not respected? What you're doing is unprecedented. I hope, I ask you to reassess it. I would ask you at least to put a transitional provision and discuss from now on whether there should be age limits. Let us discuss this, indeed. We don't want cowardice. You yourself know very well, after all, that the mandate of twelve members of the AACC has already expired. And Mr. Voutiss knows that. We talked about it from the previous government that we had a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u130	It's photography.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u131	So if you want to renew the executive, yes, let's talk about it. But if you intend to suspend the terms of office of Presidents and members of independent authorities on the grounds that you are setting an age limit, that is unacceptable, photographic, judged, and now we ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u132	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u133	Yes, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u134	Staff. You know well, because I have published immediately after the slandering attack on me, a detailed statement, which appears to have been an old pay difference in 2012, which has expired following a statement by the workers involved. I cannot understand - or rather I can understand, but I thought it would be less than my idea for you - because you repeat a filthy slander, which no one else had repeated so far in this Chamber. The debate on conflicts of interest was at the beginning and that is where I was. Repeat an issue that has expired, completely constructed, based on the counterfeiting of a contract, which is apparent from its own body to be a wage difference. I am not going to continue this debate with you any longer. Anyway, I'm dealing with this in a trial in less than a month. The judicial authority will decide on them. It is simply bad for the quality of democracy to degenerate a debate, which should be at the level of principles, at this level.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u135	Madam President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u136	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u137	Minister, no debate is degenerate when we talk about real data. As I told you, I respect you as a political opponent, I respect you as a lawyer. I'm pointing out the conflict of interest. With the rugs - inside or out of quotes, as you say - you will find them in justice. But here we are having a political controversy. And you will understand that once you exercise executive power you will be open to political criticism. I made no personal mention of your character. None. Political criticism. And you will finally learn to accept it, as we have accepted it as long as we have been in the government, where you have succeeded against us - not personally, but the party you represent - with vulgar and unacceptable characterisations. So here we are. We'll talk politically. Obviously the conflict of interest is something which does not involve criminal responsibilities. Politics is the issue. It's a deep political one. And finally, those who judge us are the citizens who listen to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u138	After the explanations of each other have been given, this cycle of controversy ends. Mr Athanasios Petrakos, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor for twelve minutes. Mr. Petrako, would you like to use your dentistry as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u139	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u140	All right, you've got eighteen minutes, Mr. Petrako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, Mr Katrugalos, does not need my own advice because he has responded. But it is a challenge - and I am very sorry - that it shows a great deal of arguments on the part of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to raise questions which have been answered. Today they have responded once again. This is because Mr Mitsotakis is personally annoyed by the substance of the bill, as is all those who have the neoliberal perception and logic. It has to end because the Greek people, the Greek workers and especially the unjustly dismissals, who are today restored by this bill and who are the lowest-paid layers of public administration, have been made redundant. They know and understand, as the Greek people know. When a law comes to vindicate them, what need do they need to give 12, 100 to the Minister? Are they kidding us? After the law comes and vindicates them! There's elementary reason for everyone listening to us! [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] But because they cause us, do they want to remind them of what they did, remind them of the persecutions they had committed to thousands of officials and members of the public administration because they were not subject to or because they were left-wing? I would like to remind them of three examples: to remind them of the persecution suffered by the former head of the Tripolis ELGA whenever New Democracy took over? May I remind them of the persecutions suffered by a colleague from the First of Thessaloniki, working in the OAED? She'll say it herself. Or should I remind them of how they perceived public administration, as regards education, which did its job and caught Mr. Samaras' son trying to copy? And because she did her job, she got fired, but then she was vindicated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u142	Aren't you leaving the kids now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u143	I didn't want to go to that logic, Mr. Mitsotakis, but don't you cause us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u144	It's embarrassing what you're doing for children! Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u145	The shame is yours, because you're annoying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u146	And the kids will be involved in this story?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u147	I told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Mitsotakis, let Mr. Petrakos speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u149	I didn't interrupt you when you made personal attacks on the Minister. So don't bother. I did not want to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u150	Don't bother, then!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u151	Because for me, what you have done with a deep neoliberal logic and politics you have had in public administration. In the five Memorandum years, we all know that - beyond others - a dominant element of the neoliberal attack has been the rabies attack of the Memorandum governments on the public - wider and narrow - and on the social state. Under the pretext of the famous 'economic crisis' and the memorandum of the Memorandum of Understanding and the Economic Elite, like the other dominant politicians and economic forces in Europe, proceeded with the most brutal dissolution of all conquests of the social state, the radical redistribution of wealth produced in favour of big capital and upper social classes. We are therefore of the utmost importance in the case of overthrowing the memorial policies and defending the state as a body providing social goods. We are aware and remembered by the Greek people that this whole operation has been drunk by the ruling class, the Memorandum and the sovereign media through an unprecedented propaganda, which set up a stage of collective incrimination - the famous "we have eaten it together" by Mr. Pagalou - and the promotion of social automation. They attempted to highlight, as a dominant element of the crisis, the so-called overriding and waste public sector, as well as the exquisite remuneration of workers in the public sector. The Minister replied on both the number and the remuneration of civil servants. However, the aim was to confuse the role of the public and mislead society and to legitimise the plans to abolish the public as a body of its free, public service, which must provide society. I mean, I mean legalising the abolition of the social state and the privatization of its functions. Because the famous anti-democracy is the idea often put forward by the political representatives of neoliberalism. The neoliberal project concentrates on the requirement "small, flexible and final state". In fact, this position expresses the requirement of stock exchange capital and monopolies of the time of neoliberal capitalism to guarantee the state's absolute immunity in their actions. In particular, the request for a smaller state imply the tradition of public wealth in capital, the downsizing of minimum welfare structures, the expansion of relative and absolute goodwill, the freedom of redundancies and, vice versa, the unprecedented strengthening of the dimensions and work of the repressive mechanism. We have seen them in the five years of the Memorandum Governments, when the people were on the way to fight against the memorial policies and the establishment of a reactionary legislative framework. The term 'flexible state' means the discharge of the state mechanism allegedly by the guilds, micro-communism, populism, the Soviet-type dictatorship - we are told - and trade union immunity. The state has too much structure problems. It is oxymobile, however, to disguise to prosecutors political forces that built this state to serve their ruling class and self-interests. On the other hand, this generalised attack sought to harm the interests and struggles of workers. For other things, trade union bureaucracy and workers' struggles for their rights. For us, a lesser state means no downgrading of the role of the state in the ruling order. On the other hand, a lesser state means strengthening the mechanisms that serve it. And this less state we saw in the role of the state, which was called upon to save banks and to charge the Greek people with billions of debt, so that the crisis of banks turns into a public debt crisis for the country, in a crisis of society and in the destruction of society. That is why this bill is one of the first steps of this government towards the overall reconstruction of the state. It is the first step towards the reconstruction and restoration of the injustices imposed by the Memorandumian Governments, I repeat, in the lower-paid layers of public administration. Because those who fired were the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance and the school guards, the lower wages paid. They fired them. That is why we say that the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK since post-Macedonia and then, with their neoliberal policies, with the involvement of political and economic power and privatisation in key sectors, have worked all these years as the main missions of the transfer of powers of the social state to private capital. That's the whole point, and that's why they're bothering, because this bill today comes to restore all of this. The current government with SYRIZA torso and with this bill makes a first small step towards radical change and the state system, so that the state and the public administration gain the role and place they deserve, defend and serve the interests of many and the general interest in the interests of 1%. The basic institutional and democratic reconstruction of the state is part of SYRIZA's immediate government programme. It responds to the demand for real reforms rather than deregulation and redundancies. It responds to the request for public administration at the service of the ordinary citizen. The New Democracy, not in fact able to oppose this bill, was "flying" to both the committee and the Plenary Assembly "the ball on the platform". They couldn't explain why they sacked the world illegally. This world that comes from this bill today to restore and reinstate it in the service of the Greek people. They cannot answer us because they are against the democratisation of the relations between the state and society that this bill is attempting. The state must cease to be used as an effective mechanism and a 'private ram' that faces social claims. That is why they are calling against the article which restores the question of political empowerment, which abolishes the political mandate, because we must remind them that the eleven political turnouts made in the years from 1974 onwards were made in the five Memorandum years. That is why they are annoyed, because the political mission has become a suppression mechanism to ban strikes, because they did not want and cannot stand the workers for their rights, because all they used was to strengthen the repressive mechanism of the state when the people, who come and say that it must be made smaller, flexible and more effective. That is why they are also disturbed by the second chapter on the rationalisation of disciplinary law, because in the previous period there has been a massive attack on the rights of workers in the public sector, which has been manifested in many ways, but above all on the business of fear. This is the essence of our differences, along with the restoration of the people who were persecuted by governments just to enter the "alt" of lenders who were asking for workers' heads, asking for blood. The size is never the problem of public administration, but the unequal distribution and anxiety staffing and enhancement of executives. These are also the main issues, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK and of the New Democracy, you are champions and pioneers. So don't tell us that we defend the current state of public administration, which is your creation, and when you want to fire the world, you are allegedly renounced your responsibilities. Are you accusing us of unilateral actions? Our actions are actions of an elected government, which wants to change things. Because after five years of hard memorial policies Greece is a doomed country and you know it very well. Its production structure has been dismantled, so has labour relations. Unemployment, poverty and hunger have been multiplied by geometric progress - not to say in an exponential manner. Partners and Memorandum parties are asking to continue on the same road on the path of destruction. The local memorial forces tell us to retreat, because the partners are strong and we are weak. But this government was called upon by the Greek people to stop the disaster and retaliate the country's course in a completely different direction. Can we? Yeah. That's what history looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you who are called upon to submit to us, the story is written by the battles of the bold ones and not by the powerful ones. The story is written by class struggles. The story is written by those who always fight. The statements made yesterday by the President of Germany, who opened the issue of German allowances, show that we are on the right track. And whoever insists will win in the end. We therefore call on you, rather than invite us to submit, to support the fight that the government gives. Because it is a struggle not only for Greece and the Greek people but for all of Europe and for all the European peoples. Because Europe will either walk under the flags of democracy and social justice or have no future. So do not invite us to back up and submit, but support the fight that we are giving. Partners in the name of their neoliberal ideal want to make Greece a special economic zone. Today's only news proves where the Greek people are. What do you want us to do? Shall we behave? Our doctrine, however, was never "Rease sit nice to be a housewife". Our doctrine is the essence of the first document of the Messinian Senate that lifted the Revolution of 1921, which said: "We made the decision to fight." News today says, gentlemen, something that you hide: 44% of retired people receive pensions below the limits of poverty. Pensions have fallen 48%. Are you asking us to agree on further reductions in pensions? We're not doing it! Today’s news says that there are two and a half million uninsured people, and this government gives health books to uninsured people. Today's news is about lowering the prices made by the Minister responsible on the coastlines. Should we not do that either, why is it a unilateral energy? Today's news says the owners of undeclared rent will not pay tax. You guys had them pay tax. Today's news says that those who were taxing blocks and who were employed, in fact, will not be taxed on blocks as freelance professionals, but as employees. Today's news speaks of a full exemption from the tax on agricultural subsidies. Today's news also says that your government left you EUR 135 million untapped from the European Aid Fund. This is today's news. So what do you say? Shall we move on this road or agree and submit to the neoliberal hegemony, which prevailed worldwide through the herrings that hit the government of the People's Unit in '73 in Santiago, Chile? We therefore say that we will not go along with that logic. The fight that this government is giving against neoliberal policy is a struggle for all European peoples. In order for Europe to have a future and indeed to be a united Europe, it is condemned to roam under the flags of freedom, justice and democracy. Otherwise, it will be dissolved. So come on in this fight to walk and defend the interests, not only of the Greek people, but also of all the peoples of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Petrakos. Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas. Mr. Poppa, will you use the twelfth or the dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u153	He'll show, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u154	I'm typically asking you, so I can put your time. Tolerance always exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u155	If time passes, we'll see. Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say something essential before I place myself on the bill under discussion. I am addressing the Bureau as a whole, Mr President, and I say this: yesterday, in addition, we honoured - and very well - the deceased and murdered during the German occupation. Today, it is five years since Marfin's crime. Then, in 2010, left-wing anarchists and raids in cooperation, as they all show, with domestic and external agents, threw molotov bombs at the bank branch in Stadium and found a vicious and tragic death of three Greeks, as well as the fetus that brought one of them into its infancy. So today, five years after Marfin's dark case has not been clarified, namely the operation to intimidate the Greek people, we want and propose that the Greek Parliament honour the dead and the new, modern Memorandum of Occupation, that is to say the Marfin's murdered, but also the thousands of tragicly killed our fellow citizens, who have, in essence, been killed by the memorandum policies of the previous governments. We propose, Mr President, that these Greeks be kept a minute' s silence. We want the Bureau and the parties, regardless of political differences, to agree to our proposal. I'm coming to the bill now. On the pretext, say the view of the Golden Dawn on the Greek state. The Greek State remains the eternal patient of the Greek state, without necessarily having to mean that the civil servants are responsible. It may account for a small or other part of the responsibility to them, but in particular the responsibility of the political leaders concerned, namely the governments. Our firm position is that public administration must operate for the benefit of the nation and the citizens, unaffected by parties and other situations. It is established that the public administration has been in a deep and generalised crisis for decades, a crisis which has created the parties to the post-government establishment. In fact, public administration simply reflects the outdated model of state organisation, as well as the efforts of governments to serve the interests, which are incompatible with the social and economic development of the place. Rushfetti, low efficiency, partyisation, lack of decentralisation, customer relations, unreliability, opacity, confusion of competences, bureaucracy is some of the management's main problems. The situation in the public administration, particularly because of the hat and control exercised by the executive, is at least disgusting. On the next day of the elections, the government considers that the public services are a feud for them, overthrow their role and effectively the purpose for which they exist. Instead of serving the public administration citizens and the Greek society, it is clearly serving the political parties. In this bill, we have conflicting arrangements that one cancels and amends the other, without anyone finally knowing what is happening and at the end what is happening. At this point, I would like to make a point about Article 6 which talks about the listing of disciplinary offences. This should be specificised, because as formulated, Minister, it is deaf. What do we mean when we say - in introductory words - 'acts which refuse to recognise the constitution or lack of devotion to home and democracy'? Who and what logic is he going to define the above? With this logic of Article 6, civil servants who have shown a lack of devotion to home and democracy must also be prosecuted, by promoting the anti-constitutional, ethnic and illegal memorandum or even those officials, the executive bodies, who cooperated and promoted the draft of the illegal, immoral, anti-constitutional political construction against our movement. In conclusion, I would like to ask something, Minister. Will officials, who are accredited necropsies, such as those of Jehovah’s witnesses, be persecuted, too? We therefore believe that this provision, as formulated, opens the way for new political persecutions and we cannot consent to such subjective approaches, interpretations and practices. In principle, we say 'the present'. On the articles, our rapporteur, Mr Radicals, will be placed in detail. However, at this point I would like to stress that we on the Golden Dawn are vertically opposed to any kind of thinking about an electronic card in any kind of electronic or non-packaged form to any kind of violation of the citizens' personal data. In Article 10, then, we are voting 'no' because we consider that in practice this is an article which will institutionalise the mechanism for monitoring citizens' data. As much as you assure us, Minister, on the contrary, we consider that this article, namely electronic identification, is a kind of 'citizen' card' which will incorporate all the personal data and information of the citizens, such as the poll, APM, AMCA, etc. Mr Minister, Article 10 is a Trojan horse, a rehearsal for the upcoming 'citizens' card' with which we are radically opposed. Let me remind you that the Golden Dawn had brought this issue to the House during the previous Session with a timely question, where we received the floor from all Members and stressed as Greeks and as Orthodox our complete opposition to the new identities and the 'civil card'. Today, we are waiting with interest - at least one representative from New Democracy came in and I want to say to him that he needs to hear it because he is concerned - with the positions of the rest of the parties and especially of the Officerial Response, which, of course, is not just its own practice - but other things he says. In fact, I would like to remind you here of the promise he made - and he did not, of course, keep it, when he was able to keep it - regarding the return of the religion to police identities. Continuing, we have to say that the radical reform of public administration is something that requires ruptures with partyism and customer relations. The responsibilities of the parties that have been ruling over the last forty years are enormous for the government and the state, for today's disgraceful picture. The responsibilities of the New Democracy and the PASOK are not being ignored, but are already being attributed by the people through the elections. The usual responsibility of the civil servants and their political leaders is eloquently unacceptable to us, especially when the illegal civil servants are brought before the justice and various illegal ministers enjoy the impunity offered by the scandalous law on the responsibility of the ministers of Vangelis Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, there is no one in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u157	Whether they exist or not, that's the same thing. The people will judge them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u158	I'm sorry, Mr. Pappa. I didn't hear you, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u159	There's no one in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u160	There must be a Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u161	It's Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u162	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u163	Here it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u164	I'm here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u165	Welcome to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u166	Excuse me, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u167	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u168	Go on, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u169	At this point, the present government is, unfortunately, one of the same. I do not want to mention the armies of consultants with the contracts that we have recently seen in the newspapers of the Government. I do not want to refer to the movements of the Ministers with EKAB helicopters. I am also not going to talk about simple life, combined with a great deal of hypocrisy, but about a very fresh news he says: the current director of ERT is taking over by the newspaper director. Is this the new government and the new customs announced by the left government for the first time? To conclude, Mr President, I should like to add that we the nationalists of the Golden Dawn want and insist on an effective administration, an administration of modernized and remarkable, an administration where there will be a remarkable exploitation of human resources, an administration with humanism, an administration with a national vision and an aim, but above all an administration free of its bad past, which will operate in the light of the goodness of the country and the Greek people. I spoke for two minutes less than my time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr Theocharis Theocharis Theocharis, Parliamentary Representative of the River, has the floor for twelve minutes and, if necessary, there will be a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u171	I'll try to stay in 12 minutes. But if I have to, I'll ask for your tolerance. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in the context of convergence, we have now reached a hundred days of governance. I think you deserve a champagne at night to enjoy it! In the euphoria that might bring you good it would be to think a little bit about what we saw in these hundred days of governance. We have seen legislative acts that would never come. We've seen urgent bills. I wanted to know what's raping you? I wonder: What is it that rapes you? Are you in a hurry to pass the bills quickly before you deliver the doggy, as Mr. Lafazanis says? Is it going to be next week, next week? Do you have to get through it fast, manny-manny? We have seen 'blockages'. The Minister himself described the 'first aid bill'. You don't have a National Health System, do you? To be explained. First aid allows man to breathe, but more is needed. We have seen in the humanitarian crisis 'blocks' no possibility of giving solutions. We have seen in ERT, respectively, say "we will see the solutions for permits when they arrive". We see the same here for public administration. You're setting up a party state, not just with this bill, but you're establishing a party state. At ERT now, not to forget, you made a three-day notice within the three-day Day of May! We said, hold on to the pretext. In the three-day period? You'll choose. After all, the bill says: Opinion by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and a full decision by the Minister. He's not here today, so there's no reason. Put at least one week's notice for the eyes of the world. These are shameful things! So we have positions in these ways and when our opposition - right we believe, because it is an opposition that has proposals - tells you 'Lords, the old political system has never created institutions', what do you say? "We're honest." This is not an answer to the country's political problem. If you are honest, I hope so, without institutions, no one remains honest. Power is ruined and absolute power is completely corrupted, a great man has said. What's the result? Revenue to nadir, ATM tails from retired people for only three hours. Is that a picture of the future? Maybe, let's see. And you have the feeling that we're making time in the negotiation. How? The immorality? Ice cream? With the tourists? Already the French and Germans are afraid to come to the country. Do you know why they're afraid to come to the country? They say: "Will I go up there on a change with the coin and make trouble and violence, and I will be on my vacation? I'd rather not go." That's what tourist agents tell us. That's how we lose the country. You're exterminating liquidity. That's what you're doing. You eliminate the liquidity and patience of the Greek people. There's nothing left. And that's how we lose the country. Increase the gaps we have to cover faster than you can negotiate. It is a good example of yesterday's International Monetary Fund. You're supposed to win from negotiation when and whenever we see it ending from the 3% targeted by the previous government - an out-of-real target, we're the first to say that by election - you're going to get it to 1.5%. And you were given a failure last year by the previous government. From 1.5% that was targeted, he delivered you 0.4% and you've already gone to 1.5% to 1.7%. You're pulling down the bar from the top, and it's leaving you underneath. Hardouvel's mail will soon be a paradise in relation to the measures that you will vote on. You will vote for them, for your sake, we will not vote for them. You will be forced to vote for these measures, because your government is sitting and doing nothing. And what's he doing? He hears dozens of different voices. Pick up some of the last two days? I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on this matter. Kind of changed in relation to what he said. Lafazan: 'If we do not give solutions to delivering the spoon'. In the light of the above, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty in respect Apple: "Scake not poker. Delay payments to creditors’. Manios: "In 15 days we will have a credit event". And, of course, more than these voices are the non papers of Maximus. It is a terrible thing, the 'industrial' of non paper. We are very close to the agreement in the morning, a sudden engagement with collective bargaining and group redundancies - this shows how you manage in terms of communication the negotiation, which is the most important thing, which you do and tell us is the most important one - something that has been going on for a year. It's sudden. Or you don't know what we're talking about or making fun of us. And the next day, after we went well, but eventually we had a sudden involvement, we're going to deal with a package. So we can't figure it out in a few minutes, we'll figure it out! If that's what you think the Greek people understand and believe it, I don't understand what you're trying to do. No communication is a tragedy, but communication without substance is a bubble and this bubble will shut apart from your heads and the Greek people, who will pay for it. Do you want me to tell you what you propose as measures? The measures that you have already proposed to us: Extraordinary contribution, reinstate the reduction of the special contribution made by the previous government. You're in direct correspondence with the previous government, straight line. It doesn't make any difference. You rename the troika to "compositions" and the Samara government to a Tsipra government. Nothing else, that's what you've done so far. Luxury end. The country has a lot of luxury than that. So let's put a luxurious end to taking 20 million. No change in HISPIA, no change in HISPIA! Can I say it again? No change in HISPIA. The biggest political mistake since the ships that brought Thesea forgot to put white sails. Watch out. End of the night. You don't increase VAT on hotels and you put an end to the night! Is that the change between the two governments? Is that the renegotiation you're negotiating? Which is a new red tape at the end of the night. Increasing VAT is at least the same statements, no difference, nothing. The night charge wants new statements, new payment dates, new control workshops, which will control businesses differently, i.e. "live My May to eat a clover". What do you want to save? Explain to me. What are these red lines? I've said it here before, I'll tell you again now. Is that the unemployed's VAT? The unemployed don't pay VAT. You're talking about a humanitarian crisis. You have been telling us for two years: 'Human crisis! Humanitarian crisis!’. You're saving the rich's VAT. There's no VAT on the unemployed anymore. He doesn't have to pay. Early retirement justice? Oh, no! Early retirement of injustice. That's what you're trying to save. I hope you change. The fact that you have to deal with the insurance issue today, ladies and gentlemen, is that, through early retirement, the previous governments, supposedly made corrections to the insurance company and, indeed, cut the pensions, opened 'loopholes'. And so the same money that was before spent to fewer now is spent to a few and the problem remains the same. You cannot privatize. Forget it. And liberals to be in the climate that is currently being privatised. When there's a bond ten years at 12% interest rate, who's gonna give his money to get what from what investment in the country? He'll take the bond with 12% and sit, if he has that kind of appetite for a risk of course. There are no privatizations. All you have to do is complete the matures so the unemployed don't pay. He'll pay for the compensation. Whatever you stop and get behind mature legal privatisations you will pay for benefits that you will not have for social policy. Finally, no pension reductions! We all agree on that. But it can't be with screams. It is not possible with voices 'I will not reduce pensions'. It'll only be if you bring in growth. And don't tell me you've brought growth so far. Ice cream you've brought. Also, it will only be if you help with the demographic problem. The demographic problem wants concrete measures to help it, but it is a long time ago, and of course it wants a large part of the migrants, especially those who have been born here and those who come, to be in legal employment and to pay contributions. The immigrant, who has been coming for ten years to work, to pay contributions and then go back to his home country is "also" for our insurance system, because he gets nothing. It only pays, it pays contributions, unlike the black man working. I want to say a few words about the bill we're discussing. Mr. Catrugale, there's a matter of moral order. You can't get past it like this. You shouldn't have recommended the bill. Even if we agreed 100%, you shouldn't have recommended it. I'm sorry to tell you this, but it's not possible when we have agreements that are submitted on 30 January to come here and introduce it. I'm sure you may have taken them back. Get the evidence. Did you get them back? Bring us evidence that you have nothing to gain. However, you can't recommend it and you can't just see it. Secondly, we do not want to make a bad criticism. You heard us and made some changes. You have, for example, removed private officials from the simulations for an indefinite period. You removed the collective bargaining. So you have made some changes which we and others in the committee have asked for. That's good. We talked to Mr Voutsi, because we have an integrated proposal, to see how we can, even now, in the next stages that you say you will bring - I wish you could - help you with our own concrete proposals. We believe in public administration. The old parties, the old political system - and you are in a straight line with the old political system - do not believe in public administration. By making public administration face to face, you destroy it. You're only talking about what you're going to put into public administration. Is she old or is she young? Does it cost a lot or does it cost a little? Who's talking about what we get from public administration? Where are the services? Do we know where the services are? Public administration provides services to the citizen. Is there a Greek citizen who's happy with the services he gets? But to deal with the services and the tails he wants work, he doesn't want bills. It's not solved in the House. He wants executive power that works. That's the only way we can solve the citizen. Instead, there is no reform and we hear only a memorial and an antimony rhetoric. You're the antimony party. He taught you because you didn't start it. But you are the antimony party. But this has begun to get tired. Today we have heard about the Memorandum of Integration. There were the old simple recruitments, and now we have the memorials. Remembrance all inclusive! There are commemorative tourism projects. I ask the government to give us a list of Memorandum Movies so that I don't go to the Memorandum Movies, but to the Antimony. You have revived the 'green' and 'blue' cafés! You're going back to us in the '80s. We'd moved on. We had an ageing political system, which was at least 2000, and you're back in the '80s. Where are the cuts? Where is e-government, when you come and circumvent the “GENERAL”? And you're not ashamed? Efforts had been made from the previous government and took them back. At least he's ashamed. And now you're bringing us "GENERAL"? So, when a decision is signed, cannot the General Accounting Office of the State take it out on the same day on 31 December? These are incomprehensible things! What else are we gonna hear? And I come to simplify procedures. Where is simplification of procedures? Where is he? You have said so in the programme statements. Nowhere! And with regard to the reorganization of the public, there is no incision. Instead, "Plints, stones, horns irritated"! And I'm coming to remove the overlaps. Where is he? He said so much about our special speaker, Mr. Kartsulis. Where is the fight against disarmament of competences? Some of the things you're bringing are only right and the help you've asked for. I wish! With regard to the withdrawal of the mission, there are some changes in the disciplinary system, some of which are right and some wrong. Let me see a trade unionist vote in favour of the disciplinary officer of a civil servant who's a prostitute. Where's the evaluation? Everywhere we hide from evaluation. The assessment is accountability. Are you against accountability? Everything you've brought so far is all patches from August and we see. You are destroying the EBRD and the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. With what you've brought to all the bills, you get her responsibilities, even the responsibilities you've given ministers. You've got some. As far as the ERT's notice is concerned, it has already been said that you will actually get people again party. Thirteen district rulers. What am I supposed to say? The whole world knows about it. Of course, there is also the big question of the transitional provisions of the terms of office of the independent authorities. Look out! Watch out for too much! Make a constitutional review and dismantle the independent authorities. If that's what you think, break them down. If you think this is the proper functioning of the public administration, they should be abolished. But as long as they exist, you won't step on them! As long as they exist, you can't break them! You cannot dismantle the births of people in the middle and then offend the fines that will be imposed by these authorities on large companies. In big companies, they'll put fines, because these authorities regulate these companies. The EMCDDA regulates large telecommunications companies. What do you give them? More presents? Aren't the gifts enough with the settings? Isn't it enough that you give 20,000,000 to tobacco-industrials to pay 10,000, and save the other 20,000,000? Why are you doing this? You're supposed to be a different government, first time left! What's that? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Petrakos spoke about history. Each leader and each government are invited to perform their historic role every time. How they will respond to this challenge is theirs every time a match with history. In a very short time, too, this moment of truth is enough for both Mr Tsipras and your government. It's getting closer! When this moment comes, keep it in mind: History writes and records acts, omissions and sometimes intentions. Never, however, announcing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. The President of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Parliamentary Group, Mr Venizelos, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, a bill on public administration is always at the heart of government policy because it concerns the state, which is at the heart of everything and is the lever of all politicians. In this case, however, very important issues are added to this bill in the form of amendments and, in fact, its debate on the principle is a dynamic one, which is confronting us with the great problems of the country. It is important to respect the rule of law and new institutions, such as the independent authorities. It is important not to interfere in their operation and to protect the personal independence of their members, who are threatened when amendments are introduced in relation to their age limit in the middle of their journey. It is also important to protect institutions such as 'DENMARK', i.e. institutions of transparency and the rule of law, which in fact ensure the publicity of administrative acts. More importantly, it is to protect the chapter of solidarity between generations and the sustainability of the insurance system, especially from 2019 onwards, when there will be a very big problem according to the proportionate studies, when the value of this 'fuckingly solidarity' will appear, which unfortunately break today. And it breaks on the initiative of politicians, persons who have allegedly fought against the "damned" PSI, who allegedly removed the insurance funds portfolios, while in reality they did nothing but a net booklet between the insurance funds and the state, with the administrations of the funds not protecting their own livelihood, because they did not respect the instructions we have given. In contrast, IKA, the country's largest fund, respected the directives and secured its portfolio and restored it to 130% - not just 100%! Mr Katrugalos has heard a lot about the conflict of interest that has arisen. I must tell you that there is a conflict of interest in relation to the AACC, because it has defended, as a proxy lawyer, the applications for the cancellation of funds that did not comply with the Government's instructions and harmed their funds when the public debt haircut was made. We have more to see in the course of our discussions, we have more to do with other government officials. But that's not what I'm interested in. Because Mr Katrugalos has a problem of institutional credibility, but he is under the guardianship of his Minister, Mr. Voutsi, who is here seated in the second seat, as a supervisor and overseer of all the discussions, not only of the Deputy Ministers of his Ministry, but of all the ministers of the Government, who do not belong to the hard core of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] And with Mr. Paradigmopoulos he was here, ready to take the floor, rebuke, approve, defend, sign, the "uninvited" Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u174	Is that all you, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u175	But all this, as I have said, will be nothing in the face of what we are in danger of living and which I hope we do not live on. I would therefore like to wish the Vice-President of the Parliament, Drasakis and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Tsakalotos, a success for the Step of the House, who, as we learn from the press today, are in Frankfurt, seeking a meeting with the President of the European Central Bank, Mr Draghi. In the meantime, Mr Varoufakis is absent and it is strange that the Minister of Finance, who will discuss institutional matters with Mr Draghi at Eurogroup on 11 May, is not involved. How is it possible to discuss the Eurogroup, and it will not have taken part in the consultations, which will take place? These are things contradictory, paradoxically and reduce the government's negotiating seriousness. I really want the result of this debate with Mr Draghi to be a positive one, and I have repeatedly asked all European leaders, with whom we have a political, ideological and worthy relationship. But, I wanted to ask this meeting today, which is so critical, in what context is it taking place, in what strategy is it, with what credibility is it? What is Mr. Drasakis doing about Mr. Tsakalotos? Is she going to blackmail and pressure Mr. Draghi, threatening him with something that will happen to Greece at the expense of herself with any impact on the Eurozone or is she going to beg? More than three months after the formation of the government, what has happened? Have we earned the time he spent, or have we lost him? Ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative that the country finally acquire a clear and responsible strategy. I am sorry to bother you with what I am saying, but one of the two will happen or you will be late in our policy, the one you slandered, slandered, undermined, spit out, apologizing to the Greek people for their political and historical deception or destroying the country. It is not a question of being justified by the country's destruction. It is not even a matter of right. The issue is to protect the sacrifices of its citizens, to come out intact, to gain a perspective. My party, personally, in the last three months, has been facing a dilemma. We wonder retrospectively whether we have made a very big mistake that we did not have to communicate our agonizing efforts over the past five years. Were we very responsible, very honest? Should we have turned into a show in a permanent, if you like, a communication operation all of what we did silently, persistently? Because it seems that all that matters to some of our fellow citizens is an impression that prevails. But, you know, no matter how much you invest in the impression, the impression will be fleeing. And now it's time for the truth. And the moment of truth - I want to have recorded this in the Minutes of the Parliament, which is the body of the history of the Greek nation - is linked to the boomerang in relation to the debt issue. The government, pre-electioned by SYRIZA, but also by ANELs, spoke of unilateral actions, an international debt conference, and they valued the great achievement of 2012. Next, the President of the Parliament, even involving the President of the Republic, set up the Committee on the Extended Debt, insulting the very functioning of democracy in the 40 years of post-population. Because its committee deals with countries that had strong dictatorships and criminal dictators who were afflicting their country, it does not deal with democratic governments, periodic elections and the rule of law. Of course, all this was based on a theorem, the theorem that Greek debt is not sustainable. Mr Tsipras and I, and all those who said that debt is a sustainable technique, were even mocking. Sustainable debt, ladies and gentlemen, is not the small debt, it is not the debt that can be dealt with in a simple way. Unsustainable debt is not the big, unbearable debt. Sustainable debt is a technical concept that means that debt is perceived as such by the markets, by the International Monetary Fund, by the European Central Bank, is manageable, serviceable debt, which allows the financing of the country. The fact that the government has said and unfortunately says that debt is not sustainable creates the following problem: it prohibits statutory, legally, the International Monetary Fund from paying the instalments and continuing to finance the country. The International Monetary Fund requires the European Union to confirm the sustainability of the Greek public debt so that the International Monetary Fund disbursements can be disbursed. To say that debt is not sustainable technically, legally means that the European Central Bank, on the basis of its statute, cannot support the Greek banks. If we say, of course, that debt is not sustainable, we are even further away from markets and, above all, when a Greek government says that debt is not viable it undermines the basic argument by which it can achieve a reduction in the budgetary objective, that is, a lower primary surplus than 3%. Because the smallest surplus is documented in the debt sustainability study and it is certainly right that the objective is limited, around 1.5%, but it is wrong to say that debt is not technically viable. It is also wrong to see the nominal debt value ourselves and only the ratio to GDP, because we need to take into account all the elements that determine the debt in net present value, the restructuring carried out in 2012 radically, the long average duration, the small average interest rates, the minimum annual service costs, which are reduced by 60% compared to 2009. And above all, when we say that debt is not sustainable we undermine our fundamental demand, which is that the European Union should implement its 2012 commitments for further reductions in the Greek debt, now that the country would normally come out of the memorandum, but unfortunately deepen the third memorandum. I would like to ask you a question for everyone to think about it calmly in their conscience: according to the journalistic information, the latest intervention of the International Monetary Fund says that the International Monetary Fund to pay the instalments and continue the Greek programme either wants Europe to cut off the Greek debt or Greece to take additional tough budgetary measures. What's that? Is this an intervention from the International Monetary Fund friendly for Greece? Is it under pressure from the Finnish, Slovak and Cypriot parliament? Or is the threat of sudden death, as happened in other countries with a leading example of Argentina? To God, do not make the mistake of taking this position of the IMF as friendly. This is the raw threat to sudden death, the brutal threat that the Argentinian example will be repeated. Because my language has haired me to say for so long that we must negotiate not only with the European Union but also with the International Monetary Fund. It has haird my tongue to say not to talk about the notorious reform lists, to discuss the financial and macroeconomic framework, because it all depends on it. But no one listens, no one respects, no one asks, no one remembers. Do you want me to remind you, very quickly, of the hundred days that passed how many shades of grey in the government's positions we have around the big issues of the economy and the negotiation? Almost fifty shades of grey positions. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] It says the government: we do not want an extension of the programme, we want another type of bridge. But it says at the same time: we were blocked by the previous government in the two-month extension, and it should have extended the memorandum six months, for which the government did not initially want to extend. He then signed a four-month extension of the programme, in the absence of the Parliament, with provision for a third memorandum, end of June, and signed it without secured funding, while returning the 11 billion euros of the FFSF to the EFSF. It says the Government: we are seeking an immediate solution to the problem of public liquidity by increasing the ELA and the interest-rate limit, namely through banks, and we want the big issues, insurance, labour, etc., to be discussed in June. And then, he says, 'Let's go directly to an agreement in June' - that is to say in a third memorandum - 'without having solved any financial interim problems'. The government says, as soon as it takes office, 'we do not want the remaining instalments of the programme, it is sufficient for the European Central Bank to raise the ELA limit and the threshold for the interest-rate letters'. He then says: "We hope to pay a few instalments to meet imperative cash requirements". Then it repeats that it was a mistake that he signed - Mr Chakalotos said so - without funding. Then it says: "Give us back the 1.2 billion of the 11 that we returned to the EFSF" and then by an act of legislation requires the mandatory concentration of the resources of the ATTs, EITs and other bodies in the wider public sector, i.e. "destinating" liquidity, while the forced orientation of any bank liquidity in the renewal of interest-rate notes and the emptiness left by the non-participation of foreign banks in the bond notes has been preceded. For the debt, I told you what has happened and we finally come to this picture. Every week in the first few days there is optimism, convergence, an imminent agreement, an impressively positive climate for Mr Tsipras' personal contacts with Mrs Merkel and other factors. The climate is getting worse by Friday. Every Saturday there is a climate of deadlock, a long distance, a tough negotiation is needed. Every Sunday systematically, for thirteen weeks now, a meeting is being held under the Prime Minister at the Maximos Mansion and a message is being sent of great optimism, which lasts one to two days, now a few hours. "If the European Central Bank does not retreat, the Greek Government does not retreat," the Government's ministers say. Is that what Mr. Drasakis will tell Mr. Draghi today? "For the first time, in fact, there is a negotiation," the government says. What negotiation? Mr. Varoufakis' negotiation? Mr. Tsipras' negotiation? Mr. Drasakis' negotiation? Mr. Theaharakis' negotiation? Mr. Juliaraki's negotiation? I ask, in order not to embarrass the government, what has happened to the historic form of Mrs Panaritis, who has been lost somewhere in the intervening period? [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] The process and the climate are constantly changing, but there are always great differences in substance. The question arises every week: is there a cash possibility of paying wages and pensions? And every week there is the statement that "if we find ourselves in the dilemma of paying wages and pensions or international obligations, it is clear that wages and pensions are precedented". Only next week will no wages and pensions be paid in the event of a credit event. Nevertheless, Mr Varoufakis is rushing the Easter of the Catholics in Washington and assures Mrs Lagard that Greece will be in the bicentennial complicity of its international obligations and then we learn that the government is ready for an agreement and an honest compromise. At the same time, however, it is said by an oral Prime Minister that if there is a divergence from the SYRIZA programme, the only solution is the referendum. However, there are government officials, the parliamentary majority, such as Mr Philis, the parliamentary representative, who even raise the issue of elections now, and there are many who believe that behind any recourse to a referendum, namely the policy of the Cannes, there is the impossibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government ruling, so fleeing before the deadlock or internal blackmail. I have said it again today: the government is acting as a negotiator. For a hundred days there has been no negotiation or, to be precise, no international negotiation has taken place. Under the pretext of a so-called international negotiation, there is a difficult, tough, but miserable and small-party internal negotiation within the government, within the parliamentary majority, the joint and single parliamentary majority of SYRIZA and ANEL. This leads nowhere, because it sets dilemmas that go beyond the mandate of 25 January. That is why, because the lies are now over, the time has come for truth, the time has ended and the country must protect itself and avoid historical damage, I call on the government and I ask the Prime Minister personally to clarify the simples, the fundamentals: what is the framework - where we are going, when we are going - followed by a negotiation that makes sense, when it is done with the outside, and not when it is done with the media, just to ensure that a new political group remains in power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Venizelo. Before giving the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, allow me a statement to this House. A moment ago the New Democracy Parliamentary Group tabled a request for a roll-call vote on the bill that we are debating in principle. I'll let you know that the word of the names will be about four o'clock. That's where we figure it out. Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on today's bill is, of course, part of the context and is under the overall development of the negotiation, which the government continues with the so-called institutional bodies, namely the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the troika on the substance. From this point of view it is also confirmed on the basis of the latest developments and today's publications that the negotiation is not taking place in order to satisfy the popular needs, to repay the huge losses suffered by the workers, the unemployed pensioners, the wide-ranging populaces, the years of this capitalist crisis and the implementation of the memorandum, but the government is negotiating on how best to serve the needs of capital, the needs of the capitalist economy for the transition to the new stage of the cycle from the recession to growth. Because it negotiates, precisely within the framework of the European Union's strategic, class, anti-grassroots choices, by accepting these class strategies. It is negotiated in conditions of sovereignty, at the level of economy and in our monopolies. So whatever development, which is negotiated, is nothing but an adjustment to the substance of the current SYRIZA and ANLE to the new needs of capital, an adaptation to the anti-Half class path to the needs of the capitalist economy. Here, however, a question was well placed by many. So since what the Communist Party of Greece says is true, that the government is not negotiating for the workers, but for the benefit of the capital, why is this reaction on the part of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund? Because they're pushing. They are pressing, on the one hand, for anti-grassroots measures to be taken more quickly and, on the other, for the negotiation that the government is negotiating is not a fragmentary negotiation, but for all the general contradictions, which have been manifested in recent years with great vigour, due to the capitalist crisis, reactions and contradictions that concern, both the European Union's course in Germany's role in this and the United States' attitude toward this development of things, but also at the same time have at the same time the focus of what will be burdening the high state debt at the Eurozone level. If, in other words, a much larger part of the Eurozone's state debt will be shared, that part of it is the Greek state debt and Germany will take over its service. So the framework for this negotiation is unpopular. It is essentially for the government to be able to facilitate the service of the state's debt in order to save some resources, but they will not be directed towards improving the position of the people. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government wants to make use of the resources it will save from the government debt service to support in all ways and means, i.e. to finance state-owned groups, their investment projects, either directly - through the new programmes of development investment laws and the tax relief it prepares through the reduction of tax rates for corporate groups - or indirectly through the direct intervention of the urban state in the economy itself, i.e. through intervention and the creation of the appropriate infrastructure, so that business capitalist activity can be developed at the level of the economy. That is why the government has referred to the Greek bells the question of the abolition and the Memorandum, but also the implementing laws, and has referred to the bells the case of restoring the enormous losses suffered by our people over the years. So either the government reaches a new agreement with the lenders, with the institutional partners - which will mean a new memorandum, a new anti-grassroots measures against the working people's family - or an accident, in whatever form it takes - or a return to the national currency or the circulation of a double currency in Greece - is nothing other than the same currency that meets the needs of the capitalist economy and the individual pursuits and interests of parts of capital. That is why the people must not, the working people's movement must show any waiting, but must intervene directly in the direction of conflict with this policy that leads them to poverty and impoverishment, which is exacerbating their position and leading to a conflict with all these factors, namely the dominance of business groups and the European Union, which are also the main causes of the problems facing the people's family today. From this point of view, therefore, it is not accidental and continuous adjustment made by the government in terms of its propaganda, trying to encroach on the popular strata in this anti-popular, class policy that it intends to implement. From the pentosal that would dance the markets and tear the memorials and law-enforcement by means of a law, we have passed to a mere life at the beginning and today in mild austerity, an austerity that will continue in the midst. We have been through domestic lending to meet the needs of lenders and meet the government debt in the bicentennial period. The Government is tabling an amendment to today's draft legislation on the AAGE, namely the Solidarity Fund, which obliges it to finance with its resources the deficits which today's policy and the previous ones have created in the insurance funds and not to cover these deficits from the State budget, so that the Government can continue to provide the government with the help of its creditors in the bicentennial debt, which means that the needs of its creditors are not met. So it seems that this continuous adaptation to today's bill, which has been submitted and discussed. He had come different at first. It contained a number of issues which were removed. Lucky? It probably falls within the framework of the negotiation. For example, the existence of collective labour agreements was removed from the final text. The conversion of IASS to permanent staff has been removed due to the very requirements of lenders, but also to the needs that they want to serve. From this point of view, therefore, the government in anti-election, and when it was in the Civic Opposition, SYRIZA has made political use of workers' struggles and the needs they had, to come to power - not only politically, but also for economic reasons, because legality is not always moral - and today it continues to implement and implement, to support precisely these Memorandum policies or not to question them. The main issue is not false confrontation, false confrontation, whether it is small or large in the urban state. The main question, which has to be answered, is what state we have. We have a state of the power of the bourgeoisie, with what this means. A class state. Whether it's a small class state or a big state, it's an anti-grassian of its own nature, of its own birth. It is precisely because he wants to satisfy whatever state size and to adapt his size to the specific requirements of the reproduction of capital and, at the same time, to incorporate people's consciences in any way, either through the acquisition of consciences and client arrangements, which he has implemented in previous years, or through violence and repression. Or, in other words, with the carrot or the whip. These are, therefore, the two roles of the city itself: on the one hand, to satisfy the needs of the bourgeoisie and, on the other hand, to incorporate and subtract the working class and other popular strata in order to maintain the power of the exploiters at the expense of the exploited. At the same time, there are also the other phenomena of corruption related precisely through the symphony of political power with economic oligarchy and the service of these needs. A corruption, a black economy, which is a hydra flea, because it is just a genuine child, a child of this particular system. Of course, the small state, which is taking over today, and the New Democracy, as well as the other parties of counter-population, is in the name of creating a vital place for the development of business activity, a state-sponsored state, where, in essence, money will go directly to satisfying the needs of business groups, providing even more for a number of people's social needs in matters of health and education. But also the great state, the enlarged state, is backing up these needs of capital in another way. From this point of view today, it is not by chance that capitalists themselves need capitalists for greater intervention at the level of the state at the level of the economy. And they need it because during the transition from the development crisis the capitalist state played a dominant role in shaping the best and appropriate infrastructures, so that they could then exploit them, exploit them, take advantage of business, capitalist activity, either through infrastructure or through direct intervention by the state through the state-owned business groups, which in the end will again hand over to the large capital through privatisations. So, then, a small or large state, it's against workers, the state itself, the state's civil servants. And that seems through wage policy, through overturns in labour relations. Today there are dozens of forms of industrial relations in the state itself, in the narrow and wider public sector. The current government also maintains this polysperm of industrial relations and, of course, the reinsurance measures, which have been taken over the past period and remain. A state, small or large, is always against people's needs - health, education, welfare - through commercialisation, for example, of the operation of the public sector with privatised economic criteria in the name of sustainability. With today's legislative intervention, the government is making some minor interventions, but they do not deny all the measures taken in the past time to public administration and workers. In fact, it concerns four main branches, the branches of the administrative staff at the HEIs, the teachers, the school guards, and not all of the needs of the school guards, because the Minister is well aware of the fact that the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA is also well aware - for example, the current one - who had tabled a question as a opposition to the government and called for the acquisition of schools guards to be not for fictitious years and to be financed by the state budget. This is not the case, however, nor is the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government progressing. The same thing is about the re-establishment of the Municipal Police. You do it in such a way that you force all municipal councils to shape the new municipal police. And if a municipality does not want and refuse, the workers who had been transferred with high standard and effectively qualified to other services of the municipality are being made available to the Ministry of the Interior. So you're actually obliging municipal councils, municipal authorities to re-establish municipal police. Otherwise, if they do not, the employees who have been transferred to services of the municipality go to services of the Ministry of the Interior, instead of being exploited by the municipality in other places, on the basis of all the formal and substantive qualifications they have. Of course, you maintain mobility and availability, it remains the status of the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, who had 320 euros waged and ten years of work contracts. It remains the unacceptable status of workers at the "Help at Home", remains the unacceptable status for cleaners in schools, which, not only, is not renewed, this contract is not converted into an indefinite period of time, but ends in summer and is basically on the road without having all the insurance needs covered, without specifying their profession as heavy and unhealthy. I would really like you, Minister, to reply to us tomorrow at the meeting with the cleaners' club in schools what you will tell them about these issues. Also, the constitutional provision of the political back-up for reasons of public health remains in substance. The previous governments have always invoked these reasons for public health in order to proceed with the political commitment. Thus, any adjustments contained in this bill do not change the nature of the State, the nature of the public administration. They are made within the framework of the economic laws of the capitalist system, the iron heels it has and the urban state. Of course, we do not care whether improvements can be made to individual issues, to issues that are currently of concern to workers, the current and the previous ones, to public administration. That is why the Communist Party of Greece has tabled a number of amendments on specific issues, such as the re-establishment of the posts and staff branches in the insurance funds and the OAED, and on a number of other issues which really - without cultivating the fact that they change the character of the state - can in today's conditions give relief to these workers, cancel Memorandum measures and commitments and facilitate above all their struggle for the need for more comprehensive ruptures and reversals at the level of power, at the level of the economy and, of course, at the level of the state, such as what we have known.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. I will give the floor to Mr Stefano Gikas from New Democracy, and immediately after that, the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kokalis, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u179	I'm sorry, Mrs. Drichelle, but I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, we should also give some Members the opportunity to speak, because they have three hours to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u181	Listen to something. First of all, is the technical problem that existed since yesterday? I ask this in order to record what Mrs Drittelli said and not answer something she has not been asked about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, I am so sorry. You weren't here before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u183	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u184	I asked for the floor when another issue, a special aspect of today's sitting, was under way. She was then President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Charalapidou, and she said that after the speeches of the Parliamentary representatives, she would give me the floor. I am not asking him now - and my colleague is right - but since some Members are calling, Mr President, I would like you to count that from about twelve o'clock I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Loverdo, your request is understandable. It has been discussed with the previous President-in-Office, but, as you said, you have heard from him that the interventions of the parliamentary representatives should be closed. Mr Kolkalis is missing and, perhaps, the PASOK Parliamentary Representative. As for the subject you raise, at some point in the course of the debate you will take the floor. After all, you have the right to secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u186	My request to you is - look at it with the Bureau - whether we can make a change now in the roles of the Parliamentary Representative, so after the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks and after colleagues have spoken, we as parliamentarians can take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Loverdo, look. You're a special speaker. You know that. You're an old parliamentarian and you know it. Will you replace your parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u188	Sure. We will get you a document replacing the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u189	That's all, Mr. Loverdo. Bring the document. We didn't say no, but the way you put it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u190	Let the SYRIZA MPs take the lead and then the parliamentary representatives take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u191	That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u192	No objections. I am obliged to ensure a flow that is foreseen. From there on, with consultation of the Members of Parliament, this can change. It's okay. Mr. Kokkalis is giving up his turn, but we will give the floor to Mr. Gikas. We should agree on the number of Members so that we do not have a new course of discussion. It's Mr. Gikas, then it's Mrs. Dricelli. How many MPs can we give the floor until Mr. Cooke's turn comes? After Mrs Drichelli, Mr Kokkalis, you have the floor and we will continue on the list. Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, would like to plead with many colleagues who are asking to be able to speak more in the critical bills. Ladies and gentlemen, today is just three months from the vow of this House. In these three months a number of bills have been tabled, the main of which, however, was the precedent that effectively unleashed Savvas Xiros and dismantled the hood and the current one, which has provisions which some of them are positive - for e-government, for the fight against bureaucracy - but it also has provisions that return us many years back. I ask, ladies and gentlemen: is this the main problem facing the country today? In these three months, did you not have to present to the Greek Parliament a bill on combating unemployment, a new investment law, so that investments can finally take their turn? Is that our problem? Of course, we're starting at a different starting point. For us development, precisely because we belong to the Western world, to the European Union, comes from the private sector. The private sector must be supported, investment must be supported, and direct investment must be supported. Is it accidental that Portugal, Ireland, Spain in the years of the memorandum increased, more than doubled - not to say more than triple - direct investment? So one would expect you to produce more important bills that respond to the messages of the times. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the market is over. You can't take anything with credit. The banks don't even give you approved loans. I come - as you know - from Corfu, which is a tourist area. I am transferring to the National Representation, therefore, the anxiety, the concern of all Corfu entrepreneurs, the small and medium-sized ones who are waiting for how and how the tourist season to begin. There is already a fall in prevalence, and in any case there is no light on the tunnel. And you come with a bill, you are immediately abolishing the independent authorities, reintroducing trade unionism to the limits of the past and a number of other provisions. I'll start the little placement with the title of this bill. He's misleading. What does 'democracy of public administration' mean? So what are you implying? That all previous governments had no democratic sensitivity? I think that this title is part of the whole communication grid you've unfolded these three months. And I'm taking your hat off, because you're getting along very well, and you're avoiding the substance. Furthermore, I will say for two articles, which have really impressed me. These are the articles that start 'no case at all', the remembrance of 'decide and order'. Under no circumstances shall the political backing be allowed. Under no circumstances is an inappropriate behaviour by a trade unionist. Can I remind you of images on the boards of large public bodies where trade unions entered, were the microphones thrown to the presidents and members of the board to pass any - even fair - requests? Isn't that an inappropriate behavior?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u194	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u195	I didn't hear you, I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u196	Don't interrupt, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u197	I therefore believe that we are returning for many years with provisions of this type. What the country needs is a state that serves the citizen rather than a citizen. That is why all the provisions you have brought, as we have said before, in order to combat bureaucracy and e-government, of course have to be found in agreement. But I come to another point, and I ask: of course you will restore injustices and I will be the first to say that all these years in the memorandum there have been blatant injustices, but the way to restore injustices is to hire all these people in their previous positions? You can use wider mobility, fill some gaps. Minister, there is within the budget the recruitment of fifteen thousand young higher education children, who will just cover the weaknesses of public administration in the new technologies, in the new ones. So there must be a golden incision to every decision you make. Finally, abolishing the holiday, when an employee has fallen into a misconduct and is not confiscated, is wrong. Imagine this employee who may be persecuted for fraud, for misappropriation, for plotting, the next day going to work. How will his colleagues treat him? Is that justice? Is that a democracy? I don't think so. Finally, I will make a comment on the abolition of the independent authorities. You started with the abolition of the National Coordinator against Corruption. I think it is wrong, today that the country is here, to abolish independent authorities in the middle of their term of office. We are going through a wrong message in Europe, a wrong message in the world. We must and must respect these people who have unfolded the process over the years by doing their job properly, by the Minister of State, and then, of course, by returning to the issue of age. I'm closing up with an observation. I agree with the argument made by the Head of PASOK on the debt issue. I will only say this: a debt is sustainable - not, of course, because of its size - if it is sustainable. It is up to you to negotiate the cost of serving the loan to be such that it is viable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Gika. Mrs Panayota Dritselli has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a very positive bill today, which is doing a major part of the government's commitments to the neo-algal sector of public administration. This bill restores major monumental injustices, which have highlighted the governance of previous years. That is why today's Major Opposition, but also part of Elias, are fighting it rabies. The democratisation of public administration means, in fact, culminating in the core of the Memorandum Policy and the restoration of the people who suffered from it, people who have become symbols of perseverance and effort, and today they are justified, proving that the only lost struggle is the one that is not given. With the provisions of this bill, all those public officials who saw their lives demolished in one day in order to satisfy the requirements of the lenders: the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, school guards, the teachers of technical education, the municipal police officers, the administrative staff of the IOI today see their struggles being vindicated. But the benefit is not just theirs. Today society and the public administration itself are basically gaining, and major public functions are restored to the benefit of many. Restoring teachers means restoring the public good of education. The reintroduction of the administrative staff of HEIs means a strengthening of higher education, which has been tested so much in recent years. The re-establishment of the Municipal Police means a benefit to local government. Similarly, the same applies to school guards and to all public sector funds. In this bill, however, one of the main ideas of the memorandum breaks, that it is the public service and the public service that is to blame. Management was treated in previous years as the scapegoat of the crisis. In fact, however, it was used to sow fear and insecurity in order to achieve the most anti-grassroots and material policy by shrinking the social state and extinguishing labour assets. Societies have fortunately rejected this commemorative story in the polls, and today the government is fully applying the people's mandate. To the disappointment of the triumphants of the memorials, the "jungle" of social automation did not work. The Greek society wants a strong social state and protection of public goods. This strengthens this bill, however much some want to hurt them for the benefit of other economic interests. This bill also takes a huge step towards restoring the injustices that the previous framework had brought to disciplinary proceedings throughout the public sector. The Memorandumary Provisions on a fair holiday for procedural or defective matters and the Public Administration may be exercised without fear of the holiday for any unfounded accusation. All those public officials who saw their lives being destroyed because they were accused of any flood, even though this was about their personal affairs, today they are going back to work. And because a lot has been said about this, I would particularly like to focus on the cases where public officials have been put on self-righteous holidays because they have fought against injustice, people who have been shadowed out of work, while party administrations from agencies, but also institutions, have been blocking the work of justice for months to avoid being vindicated and returned to work. We know too many such cases. In fact, our thoughts are to these people who defend public goods have lost their jobs. This injustice, however, ends, as is the end of the whole old system of power, which is now being poured out. This draft law on its provisions restores tens of significant uncertainties left to their luck and in relation to public administration, as well as to local government. Under the provisions of the draft law, but also with ministerial amendments tabled, important issues are dealt with in the social whole, such as the continuation of the day-to-day care centres for the elderly and those with disabilities, or the Roma and vulnerable groups support centres. Obviously, this bill cannot correct everything. But the government is starting a great effort for the public sector and it is impossible to satisfy all needs and demands. However, we would also like to call on the Ministry to do everything possible to continue this effort and issues, which could not be solved, to be cared for in the subsequent legislation. I would particularly like to refer to the former municipal policemen who have been transferred to the penitentiary and who are today not allowed voluntarily to return to their posts. We obviously recognise that the needs of the penitentiary system are enormous. However, we hope that this will be approached with a great deal of sensitivity and in subsequent arrangements these people will be able to have the possibility of voluntary movement into the service to which they had initially decided to work. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry to a parliamentary amendment which has been tabled. This is the amendment with a general number 79 and a special number 27, which concerns the beneficiaries of municipal and Community land which have not yet completed construction work on their plots. These beneficiaries are people of hardship and had received these plots from the municipalities, so that they could house their families. However, the economic crisis has prevented them from carrying out the work within these deadlines. In one month's time, these deadlines expire and we are asking for an extension so that these people can complete the dwellings. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to stress that with this bill the government is creating a dynamic justice in the public sector, restoring significant injustices over the past five years. This bill is the starting point for a great effort to restructure the public administration, and in this effort we all participate with all our forces, to finally have a democratic public administration, with an upgraded social role and a substantial contribution to the effort to get out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. Ladies and gentlemen, it is announced that the Secretary of the PASOK Parliamentary Group appoints the Member of the PASOK Parliamentary Representative, Mr Andreas Loverdos. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this government will not return to the memorial crimes of the past. Proof of this is this draft law, which restores injustices and restores legality. I find it difficult, indeed, to understand the disagreement of the opposition in this bill and in specific articles. Anyone who disagrees with this bill is basically opposed to legality. Anyone who disagrees with this bill is basically opposed to the reintroduction of the rule of law. Do you disagree with the reintroduction of the presumption of innocence? If it can be heard by official lips that the presumption of innocence should not apply! The presumption of innocence, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is already guaranteed by European conventions. The legal scroller of recent years has also abolished this presumption of innocence. Mr. Gika, the fact that he's been persecuted or prosecuted to an employee doesn't mean he's guilty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u202	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u203	That's what we're bringing back. Everyone is innocent until proven otherwise. That is what the European Convention on Human Rights says in Article 6. That's what this bill does. You disagree with this bill, too. Is re-entry, i.e. re-entry, illegally dismissals, or not re-establishment of injustice when most of them are covered by irrevocable judicial decisions? Is the abolition of the political retirement or not legal? Is it a constitution or isn't it? Is it moving in the spirit of the Constitution, yes or no? I really find it hard to understand the disagreement, especially counter-population. Is e-government or not to the benefit of the citizen the own-initiative search for certificates, e-government? Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is accusing us of taking the country to the rocks, of not voting for bills. This government is a government of national salvation, it gives the battle with the lenders, but at the same time restores the rule of law. The primary obligation of a favoured state is to restore the rule of law, is to restore the Constitution. In fact, there are no words specifically about the New Democracy and PASOK when they disagree with specific articles in the bill, which are essentially and objectively in the right direction. It is right that the Minister responsible said that it is a draft 'first aid' bill. But that is not all, there must be other bills on the public administration of long-term - not short-term - hospitalization. For example, with regard to the AACC, there are too many who have been wronged and must be treated legitimately - I am referring to the successors of the 1998 competition. We hope that there will be an appropriate regulation in the next legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, this government in two and a half months has shown signs of writing, has shown signs that these bills are passed by hand and by the intensification of Greek hands. The hundred-dollar bill, which was perhaps the only bill that had the greatest response to the debtors, the humanitarian crisis bill, this bill that restores legitimacy, does what judicial decisions have said. Do you really disagree with the judicial decisions which have been adopted and which have been justified by a number of our fellow citizens? You can tell us that you disagree with the irrevocable judicial decisions. We are legislative power, judiciary is another authority. Do you disagree with the abolition of the presumption of innocence with this legal roller? It is, indeed, difficult to answer these questions. The answer is given by the government. This bill is a bill of 'first aid', and other legislation is needed, because a number of our fellow citizens have been wronged by the memorial policies of recent years and all the political forces must agree on one thing, that it is in favour of legality, I repeat. If we who are legislative power do not reward the rule of law, we do not reward legality, then what will we need from the citizens? If we as legislative authority do not respect judicial decisions, then why should our citizens respect us? Challenge - request - proposal to opposition parties: Leave party divisions aside. All of us unite our country, especially in this difficult period. You surely love the country, but - I said it again - you are in danger of becoming lenders' lawyers many times without you wanting to do so yourself. This bill must be passed in principle by all political forces. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Red. Mr Loverdos has been asked for the floor as PASOK Parliamentary Representative. Mr Loverdos, you are well aware of the fact that Mr Venizelos, the President of your parliamentary group, has spoken about you half the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u206	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u207	Mr Minister for the Interior, I would like to repeat something I said yesterday and I apologise to my colleagues and colleagues who listened to me last night. I will repeat the same arguments, but now they are making a final sense and importance and taking them into account, Minister, and for the next meeting at which Mr Katrugalos will take a legislative initiative. We have put with great seriousness the Standing Committee without outbursts, populism, insults, demagogues, screams or whispers, a matter of conflict of interest. And we put it right, and there is our written communication from the Standing Committee on the Interior, when I said its meaning, I tabled it and left. There is still a brutal debate now because while we raise the issue of conflicts of interest with its legal, political and parliamentary aspects, the Minister answers us with Gramsey, anti-liberalism, ruling left and other beautiful and charming, but no matter what the subject we are discussing. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, we obviously did not raise a question in advance to halt the legislative work of the government. We have also told her that in some cases, such as Article 3, we want to vote. I would like to remind you about the provision on the reserve that I am the Minister of Education who has not deleted the administrative staff of the universities from his registries. At that time, I did not sign their dismissal and no one signed the release. So I have no problem telling you yes to things you're dealing with here. I see, of course, from outside people, whom you have made election promises, asking me to ask you to put the favorable ones in the provisions. I'm not a demagogue, but I'm not a liar, gentlemen. I try to be as serious as I can and address the National Representation and the people who are listening to us, knowing that I will have to address him tomorrow and say such things, not to say one another and the other. I warn you - Mr Venizelos has said so yet again - we are voting but we are not voting, we are saying yes, but we are not going to get rid of it. And I don't know what you're going to say if the country ends up in an agreement and ask you to get back a lot of what you are now doing, taking advantage of and taking advantage of this medium-term. If they ask you to get them back and agree, you'll get them yourself back. You will have no help from anyone in this Chamber. Obviously, we do not ask that the Minister responsible should promote the legislative work of the Ministry and not his assistant. Secondly, we do not - as I said yesterday - raise a question of corruption. The conflict of interest when it comes, as I have defined yesterday, is one simple thing: the existence of a private interest affecting the basic principle of the functioning of the public administration in impartiality, affects the official - here the Minister - to make decisions against the public interest. I would remind you that we have also said this to the Standing Committee, so that the Deputy Minister does not tell us that the contents of the reproach have been changed, that we have changed them. You were present, Mr Katrugale, for saying so to the Standing Committee, with seriousness and without the usual reproach.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u208	Not for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u209	I wonder what you would call it in the time of counterpopulation, what cosmic surnames you would use. What have you used? What have you said? And what you haven't said. And in your article on unconstitutionality, laws and others, which under no circumstances stood and were rejected by the Council of State, and what you have not said, so that I do not repeat them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u210	Have I said anything personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u211	To me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u212	Anybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u213	The heaviest possible characterisations have been launched by SYRIZA executives, including, for what was the texture and nature of previous governments, and several times insist on your public speech in them. We do not raise a question of corruption, but we raise a question of conflicts of interest, which is not an indictment of a charge, but a finding of reality. It cannot be tolerated by a Minister in this position, when this particular situation exists - I was, of course, in the past - a specific customer relationship. I said yesterday and I repeat that you can be Minister to another ministry, but not to it. And it matters both the words and the arguments. You answer Gramsey, with neoliberalism and liberalism, with the ruling Left. You are talking about the relevance of courts, square and parliament as fields of struggle, the clientele, but you forget it. And that's what poses the problem you're facing. Don't make fun of us. We are very clear. We are very serious and we require a matching of your answers to the questions and the issues we raise. Don't answer others and them to us. We are retiring, ladies and gentlemen. We will not remain in the roll-call vote at first. Before we leave, however, I would like to say something else, which I said yesterday and which you left unresolved. This is a question of paedophilia. In Article 3, there are exceptions. Exemption of crimes against sexual freedom is misguided. It is a recent law passed by the National Representation - it was in November or December 2014 - on how teachers with issues of paedophilia are handled. Because it is a very big problem, ladies and gentlemen, one who is accused, without even being prosecuted, of staying in the classroom. Think a little bit about the style and the style.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u214	But there's this device in there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u215	No, read what it says. In Article 3, it is an exception. c. Read it. Imagine a teacher having such an issue and you demand criminal prosecution in order to get him out of the room. Consider what you legislate and give some answers. We have also raised a matter with the order, to answer the issues raised by the House, the Directorate for Scientific Studies of the Parliament and many colleagues who have spoken here. You have not even said anything about any changes. Finally, I close with the answer you gave this morning. I was the first to raise this issue yesterday - and I think it would be kind, but with due regard for the arguments - on the question of Article 2, ladies and gentlemen. Article 2, in this paragraph, indirectly redetermines the manner in which the leaders are to be placed in independent authorities - take account of - constitutionally anticipated. For the independent authorities are two categories: the five provided for in the Constitution and the others. In two of them, the Citizens' Counsel and the AACC, constitutionally anticipated, defines in an indirect way the term of office in relation to the age of presidents, Vice-Presidents of the AACC, Citizens' Counsel and Assistants of the Citizens' Counsellor and sets the seventy-third year of age. I mean, it can't be any more. There's no transitional arrangement. On the basis of this arrangement, for two constitutionally-established independent authorities, the term of office is brutally interrupted by the abolition and texture of those principles as independent. If there is no constitutional issue here, where is there? And his argument - which we heard after the speech of the spokesman of the New Democracy - that is, the responsible Deputy Minister of State, was that we have a disgraceful issue of regulation contrary to the Constitution. I repeat: not for two independent authorities, but for two of the five constitutionally foreseen independent authorities. You cannot interrupt their term of office by adding an age test to which they do not respond. It's the epitome of violation of the Constitution! And Mr. Voutsis owes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u216	We'll do it, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u217	And why don't you tell and leave us in this room for two days? Do you have to listen to all the arguments? Do we have to cross the line to aggression? I wish you would, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u218	Mr Loverdos, President-in-Office of the Council, will be present in the debate on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u219	So long why doesn't he? And in the morning he answered the other way. It's time to do it. I am very pleased that you have resolved this matter by your own intervention. In any case, I conclude by saying that we have raised a matter of conflicts of interest to the Standing Committee, with respect for the person, the House and the majority Members. None of us heard. It would be a simple manipulation. Since it will be repeated - I imagine very soon - this practice, I would like the National Representation to keep in mind that our position will always be that. We will not remain interlocutors of a minister who has a conflict of interest in the sense and seriousness that we have put it in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the list of speakers, let me announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENERGY VENIZELOS and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, fifty-one students and apprentices and four educational attendants from the 1st Boeotia Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u222	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u223	With regard to Article 2 - for the rest I have already mentioned and I do not think I need to add anything - I just want to clarify that my personal opinion was that the age limit - and remains in this regulation - does not raise issues of constitutionality, precisely because this is an objective and implicit regulation. However, since I do not want it to be misled in the atmosphere and any suspicion that we want to attempt to end the term of office of any member of the independent authority, in short, because we want 'Caesar's wife to appear honest', that is why we will specify by transitional arrangements that this provision does not apply to members of the independent authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue, as we said before, with the list of speakers. Mrs Iro Pleasant from SYRIZA has the floor now. Here, Mrs. Dean, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the request made in any way at any place and at any time these five years from the memorandum and after any human being, is the demand for justice. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] So this draft law is a draft law that brings justice? Is it a draft law that makes it self-evident to bring back to their jobs workers made redundant overnight? Is it a draft law that responds to the claims and struggles of obsolete and devalued government officials? Is it also a draft law that sets priorities by making redundant or available first? The answer is obvious. Is everything solved? Oh, no! Can he solve everything? Obviously not. However, it is trying - and this is the most important one in my opinion - to promote as the first purpose, which the public must serve: its social and its needs. Is it also trying - and I think this is a first step - to design a public sector with that aim, asking the questions 'what do I need?', 'Where do I have it?', 'who do I have it?'? and "How shall I redeploy and redeploy my basic chapter, where are the workers?" Workers who will not be afraid to be attacked if they claim their rights, workers who will not be afraid to be fired if they get fired on strike, workers who will not live in fear of being moved like perpetrators, uncolored workers. Because fear is a bad companion and to think about both work and produce! Ladies and gentlemen, the passions of the public, which have been systematically cultivated by governments themselves for decades in order to control the state and perpetuate their power, have again been used by themselves to deceive the concept of public service and the common good of the people, so that the political authority can once again do its work to the detriment of the public and society. Depreciation was necessary to privatise or plan the future privatisation of critical public sectors. Depreciation was also necessary to justify redundancies and to transfer responsibility from their governments and their choices to the generally bad public. We all know that this policy has had tragic consequences because basic services that the citizens needed to serve have ceased to operate and basic social goods have ceased to be accessible. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we all remember the very diligent effort of all those who led a country to poverty and humiliation to convince, through their favorite media, that every time there was a claim of a professional category or a protest of officials it was always about 'bad' and'subtle guilders', who acted against society and in favour of their personal interests. The previous governments have done this with all the categories of workers who have been protesting about the incomprehensible situation that has taken place since the memorandum came to Greece. All kinds of professions and all the labor claims were broken down: From teachers and doctors to public transport officials and civil servants and from pharmacists and truckers to cleaners and many more - there is a long list. Whenever break-up and terrorism did not work, they were using completely unconstitutional methods, transferring to society a climate of war, which resulted in strikers being retired, and this measure being accepted by society. That, at least, has tried, but fatally, as brainwashing and imposing on a society, at some point everyone understands and all of their personal situation, just what has happened. Because at some point the drums of war by the previous governments have been beaten for all those who live from their work and are not rich or crooked. So this bill from the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction comes in to respond to major and fair workers' struggles. It comes to rationalise the public, restore relationships and injustices, restore democratic function, while trying to end the suffering that citizens are experiencing. It accepts the bill and the Minister himself perhaps most of the fire, because it abolishes the memorial provisions and their consequences, as was the case with the previous bills brought by the government to Parliament now. Now that the government is demanding and moving forward in order to stop the immunity and tax evasion of the channels, they are going to be foamed. But that's all right, because with conflict, life goes ahead. The bill, therefore, democratises the administration and shows respect for the Constitution and for the people, whether they are public workers or the citizens who come to do their job. Furthermore, he is making sure to deal with the bad public texts and the bureaucratic function, which is not a natural phenomenon, has not fallen from heaven, but has been all the years of political choice. This is seen by the way of legislating and by pluralism. The same is, of course, true of corruption, as much as it is above or below the public, without avengeing and punishing workers for things regardless of their work, such as their political convictions or their social action. It also abolishes the unacceptable and original procedure used in breach of the Constitution, the so-called "suppression", a mechanism used against the strikes. Enforcement will now only be done for the reasons set out in the Constitution. It restores injustices to the categories of workers, which, like the ERT black one night, are made redundant, and this also helps the more orderly operation. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to freedom, virtue and boldness, one wants to face a bureaucratic monster built to serve party mechanisms, a monster that was oppressed and workers and citizens. This bill has virtue and daring to try to build a public administration that operates at all levels and to what extent possible with the current conditions. But it is also an indication of the determination that the government has in its legislation and of the course it chooses. For it to work first of all, all of us and the public officials and citizens must try to do so, because this bill is a first radical for the administration, both positively and for society and for the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, my fellow Member, for the consistency in time. Mr Emmanoulidis Dimitris from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, 1974-2015 on the political stage two parties, namely New Democracy - PASOK or, if you want PASOK - New Democracy, forty years. They have complete freedom, absolute sovereignty of choices to create a grid in public administration that serves self-evident, society and the development perspective, which will then give society its development content. Nepotisms, arrogance, rivalry, in the sense of 'our own children', 'our besties', have created a public administration system which was not intended to serve self-evidently, that is, society, but was intended to serve the continuity of this political system. Both political sites on the same line have been costed, the same results have been achieved. It is at least indicative of political dissatisfaction to speak of the people who have created this client system in public administration, with an unjustified number of civil servants estimated. Mr. Mitsotakis spoke of nine hundred and twenty thousand. But we did not appoint them, they were generally their own children - without a rational arrangement, with no prospect of creating goodwill through the work. It was a pure service of personally demanded and personally arranged. Through such a public administration system next is - Mr Loverd's phrase is blessed, but it is not here to hear it - that the country falls on the rocks. They have therefore thrown the country on the rocks through unacceptable manipulations, particularly in the field of public administration. So the time came for the memorandum and there without having a plan to deal with the crisis, with social hardness known to them, they adopted the logic of horizontal measures. Horizontal measures in humanity mean throwing more than four thousand school guards, municipal police officers, ERT officials, their friendly tactics that the numbers deal with the problems. It is not the problem, however, through numbers. They are settled when there is reasonable, when there is social sensitivity. The social challenge that the communiqué governments have thrown was such that they were fatally destroyed by them as well. Because that's what this is about. PASOK has no power to speak, New Democracy at the expense of crimes is falling apart. What I would like to point out is that this bill is fully in line with constitutional requirements, particularly social needs, in the sense that it is costly to the principles of social sensitivity and democracy. Clearly there is no development content. It could not be because social injustice, this social bleeding, first of all, needs to be settled and then development planned. Because there are men, neither walls nor voids of men. So if society is lost, from there on, which is what I think is going on in the blanket. A final proposal to the Minister and to all members of the government is to enable them, through appointments selected, to assist research and development. Attributes we talked to the farmers the other day. If there was the elementary, necessary staffing by veterinarians, the problem of bluetongue, which was a major part of the livestock, would have been avoided. Therefore - and this is an answer to the 24 billion, which the outgoing government managed to do 14 billion - this is a numerical relationship. However, we have not been told how much gains have been lost because of the lack of development planning this Memorandum throat has brought about. We are therefore saying that we should seek such appointments in order to help the development perspective. A second case is INALE, the Institute for Fisheries Research, which could create conditions of goodwill in catch and thus in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Dessina Charalapidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, the law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction comes not only to restore certain aspects of the rule of law affected by previous authoritarian governments, not only to implement some of SYRIZA's election announcements, but mainly to bring about democratic changes in the role of the state in relation to society. A feature of the bill is that the first article of this bill relates to the prohibition of political confiscation. Because the political recruitment of strikers is not a new story, but has often been used as a means of repression, I find it crucial and useful to make an overview of the timing of the recruitments. If we look at the period of post-population, given that in the last Review of the Constitution in 1975, there is nowhere to be anticipated the illegal practice of political empowerment, while, on the contrary, the Constitution of 1975 enshrined the right to strike, we find that the Constitution provides for private services by the State solely in cases of defensive needs of the country, natural disasters or needs in which public health is directly threatened and under no circumstances else. In 1979, therefore, four years after the Revision of the Constitution, there is the first order of bank officials from the Government of New Democracy, as a reaction from the government to the strike declared by OTOE against the reductions in remuneration and the claim of their hours. The official announcement of the New Democracy, the then government, said as follows: The government accepted the suggestion of bank governors and proceeded with the recruitment. In 1983, with a PASOK government, it is now decided that tanker owner drivers will be recruited as a solution to their protracted strike. In 1986 we have the task of pilots and flying engineers from Olympic Air Force following a strike several days and in 1994 the buses of citizens convened with the OSCE were imposed. In 2002, seafarers were first recruited by PASOK after a strike on the grounds of the island's exclusion and re-enlisted in 2006 by the Government of New Democracy. In fact, the Panhellenic Navy Federation appealed to the Council of State against Decree-Law No 17/1974 on a policy of emergency, since this was adopted on the basis of the oldest constitution of the country of 1952, but we must say that the Council of State never adopted a decision on this request by the Panhellenic Navy Federation. I therefore believe that it is clear that not only does not fall within the exceptions of the Constitution, but that it is only after long and persistent strikes, when the workers' battle and determination are'squeezing' the employers or governments. So whatever national needs and any other excuses were used every time, in fact, the political mission, this institution, was a strike tool that gave the bourgeois state the last word against the working class during the phases of social conflict. At the stage of the most brutal attack the world of work has seen in our country for decades the Memorandum of Understanding has served as a record of the recruitment of various sectors of workers. Of the twelve political turnouts made in post-policy, half of them were three to four years in the memorandum. First, I remind you that truck and tank owners were recruited in 2010, which were the first victims of the memorandum. The OTA cleaners who had moved to a multi-day strike were followed and in 2013 there were three raids, workers on a fixed track, seafarers again and middle-education teachers, where the Memorandum of Understanding then made a new record of authoritarianity by means of the method of prevention of the strike, i.e. before the strike was declared. Also, in 2014 we had the backing of PPC’s workers. Worker recruitment was therefore always used as a last resort for governments in the face of endless strikes. The fact, of course, that the recruitments have been multiplied since the signing of the memoranda is not at all an accident for us. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, in this Chamber by the current Minister, but also by other SYRIZA Members, it was said by this party that the government that comes, the SYRIZA government, will abolish strikes and all authoritarian laws against the labour movement. This very thread begins to blow up today with today's bill. From that point on, of course, a number of other issues are also dealt with concerning both the dismantling of public administration by the Memorandum Governments and the reintroduction of workers who have been involved in the unacceptable status of availability and who have been made redundant. Without wishing to extend to these articles - and I think other Members will do so adequately by SYRIZA - I would like to make just one point to the Minister, that in addition to the issue of the sacked cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, which, in our opinion, is treated perfectly fairly, there is also the question of cleaners with works contracts for which these contracts have not been renewed. This is the first wave of cleaners redundancies in December 2012. In their vast majority, Mr. Minister, they are women of great age with increased family obligations. They worked constantly for many years. It has also been in this party hostage regime for many years, in a state of constant insecurity. I think that there should be such treatment and rehabilitation for these women, if not today, with separate legislation, as soon as possible for reasons of justice and for reasons of social sensitivity, just as this sensitivity and social justice is permeating the whole of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, too. Mr Evangelos Diamantopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ministers, while the bill of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction "Democratisation of Administration - Combat Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions" is in line with what the Minister responsible, however, has such a classic and ideological sign that he has already raised significant reactions from Accuracy Anti-Policy, as well as with a small part of the minor counterpopulation. The criticism he has made reinstates the debate on a small or large state, which, as the New Democracy wants, is coming to help with growth and that turns us back. It takes us back to the time when the first memorandum was signed, which the then government coordinates with the media plaques, attacked the public, to find there an alibi first in order to create social automation, to divide the class reaction to the neoliberal revolver on the one hand, on the other hand, to depreciate and vaporize the capital, which was to be profitable, and the only way to profit was the internal devaluation and softening of public property and the narrow core of services that this provides, following the crisis of capitalism that was created in 2008, with the property bubble that it dug out in the United States of America. So, through this framework and this practice, we are now coming back to the same debate. With the same ideological clashes on the part of the opposition officer who were not confirmed at all, there was a public one, which was created in the image and uniformity of the New Democracy and the PASOK. It was not huge, it was on the European Union's average, but, of course, it was clear and wrongly distributed. In your own clientele logic. That was the difficulty of the state - the public bodies - and the only purpose to which your actions were aimed was what I mentioned before. So the Ministry is moving in the right direction and partly justifies the races that have been played. We do not say that this bill is what will solve everything, but it is the bill that it sees and sees a public and private sector not as two separate and opposing camps, but as the two sides of the same currency. Only when you legislate in the interests of the people's layers, in the interests of the greater proportion of society, and when the movement strap becomes a modern organisation, whose feedback and from the official in the guise will reach the Minister, as the Minister's mandate reaches the official who serves the citizens in the guise, can we talk about a creative, functional public government that will really assist growth in this place, a particular development within a specific perspective, but not in terms of capital, by leveling up and dismantling the human status of civil servants who are serving in the public and obviously without dissolving labour relations, but also used natural resources. This is our perspective, this is the perspective that can create a modern public and see the benefits through it. However, no criticism has been made at these times that the bill is being discussed and yesterday on this basis. We had the known sterile opposition. We have had a slandering criticism of the Minister who does not exist and has gone the way to justice. We are hearing here about a conflict of interest from a party that left, the PASOK. If this is a conflict of interest, what is the case of Tsukatos who went to the PASOK offices, while PASOK was leading, ruling and legislating for SIEMENS and other companies? What about New Democracy? What scandal to remember first? We need a new meeting to discuss all this. What can we hear from the so-called comedians of the new river, who, in essence, wanted, by the vote of the President of the Republic from the previous Parliament, to continue this whole situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u232	You're talking about Mr. Tsukato...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u233	Listen to see, when criticism is made, that it is actually done. I am coming back and say that the question of independent authorities is a basis on which great deceit and great lies can be built. It is another thing to have an independent authority, another thing to give it much more competence and to hide behind this independence to serve certain class interests of capital. It's another thing to have an independent authority and another to solve and tie up. Finally, there has been criticism that they will actually be involved in disciplinary boards and workers and trade unions. And this starts with what you tried to do at the beginning of the memorandum and did not allow you by the people on 25 January to finish. Internal devaluation, the class attack on the world of work wanted to be completed with it. Through the employers' union and the party government union you created, you despised this piece and wanted to put a final end to it. In this society we all have responsibilities. And through this intersection with the memorials in the world of work and our lives, we saw people whom you considered alienated, you thought that you had managed to level them and have them prey of your disposal, to raise head and manage alone the pieces of the state, such as ERT. This is also the case in a part of the private sector. We realize that all these people have a say and will have a say. They have responsibilities not to create the same scene again. They must assume their responsibilities, when elected by the working class and in consultation with the public and private sectors - always with a classic intent and a class mark - to achieve the development of the place with an ideological mark. So we do not just think positive, but need to be there. After all, they don't have the majority. You are all revealing - and the Potami in particular - what your role is, with whom you are. You're with the bosses and you, like the PASOK and the New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr. Diamantopoulou. My colleague, Mr. Charilaos Jamaklis, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the current state of public administration is certainly due to the reasons for the political, social and economic background. The Greek state since its establishment was structured as a customer, as a follow-up to the rather or less structures that existed before. The customer structure served specific interests, which adopted it, precisely because it served and evolved it over the years. Indifferent to any reformist modernisation, they did not introduce meriting criteria for the selection and evaluation of civil servants, they did not introduce an objective system for controlling their efficiency, they did not introduce a democratic framework of operation and Disciplinary Law. Although the majority of the services and employees responded in the best way to their obligations, the structures and policies mentioned above have led to the following results: Firstly, the phobia of creative initiatives and the avoidance of liability by a large number of officials; secondly, to a large extent, the position of employees in positions in which they are not qualified to serve, thirdly, to a large extent, and to a large extent, inefficiency and observance of working hours which correspond to the needs of the citizens or the service; fourthly, the relationship with the managers depends in many respects on criteria which are foreign and regardless of the issue under consideration; fifthly, rigidity, bureaucracy and inefficiency. The Memorandum Governments and the laws they introduced with various pretexts and trickery and always at the command of the lenders, assisted by the social automation they sought, strengthened these pathogenesies, extended them and made the public administration a victim instead of making it a lever for the needs and circumstances of development and productive reconstruction. The necessary Treaty for launching reform attempts in the public administration is certainly the taking over of responsibility for the governance of the country by the present coexistence. The draft law is the first one to be introduced by a number of similar ones and aims directly at the necessary democratisation and also the necessary rationalisation of public administrations that are societal and civil demands. In my view, the most important innovations are: First, the extension of specific provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure and to legal persons of private law belonging to the State, to legal persons of private law, to public undertakings and CEC entities, as well as to legal persons and undertakings of local government bodies, within or outside general government. In practice, ladies and gentlemen, this means that the administration will act on its own initiative, without suffering and loss of workers from citizens, that the administration will deal with cases, that the citizen will have access to documents, that he will enjoy the right to a previous hearing, that the administrative bodies will be impartial, that a protocol of service and a certificate will be kept. Secondly, the introduction of e-government institutions and procedures, which will extend citizens' rights to their daily dealings with management, speeding up and combating bureaucracy. Thirdly, the harmonisation of the existing legislation on political backing and the ordering of personal services in a period of peace with the requirements of the Constitution. They will only be allowed to respond to urgent social need from natural or technological disasters or emergency needs which may jeopardise public health, of course, with the principle of proportionality. We will not allow staff who have declared a strike and, in general, the use of the institution as a strike mechanism. Fourthly, the restoration of constitutional and international law in the disciplinary procedure, in particular the presumption of innocence. This is a gap that runs through the entire post-government period of governance. At the same time, all the Memorandum Arrangements that have severely affected the rights of civil servants and the smooth functioning of the public administration are being abolished. Thursday, the restoration of injustices with the introduction of flexible and voluntary forms of mobility to make full use of the capacity of the public administration, the abolition of the institution of availability, the re-establishment of abolished services under Memorandum responsibilities, without any preparation and study and without evaluation of structures and staff. For example, the abolition of the Municipal Police, whose action brought considerable revenue to the municipalities. The second example is the abolition of forty-six tutor specialities in technical education for private IEKs. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, I am sure that by voting in favour of the draft law we are putting the first stone on the foundations of an administrative reform needed by the country, its citizens, its own society, a reform that will inspire governors and governors, citizens and employees and will make the most of a radical change in attitude and relations between them, a reform that tends to make public administration a lever for development and productive reconstruction. Minister, I repeat what I said in committee. I am convinced that your modesty alone forces you not to mention yet the fact that your targeting is directly linked to the draft law, in my view, because it is directly against the heart of the client state because it affects the service of interests. Let me just one addition to the late Prime Minister's slump: 'Do not chew!'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Alexandros Triantafylliides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, trying to assess what we have heard from the President of PASOK, but also from the positions of Members of PASOK and New Democracy, this crisis of strategy, orientation, identity and self-determination seems to be and is reflected. Hosts of personal target Samaras - Venizelos, are unable to respond to what is the historical demand. What's the historical demand? The historic demand at this stage, as they themselves describe it - critical, important, limiting - is, instead of adopting a model of competition, degradation of political speech and counterpart at the levels of gossip, parapolitical, blows underneath the middle, personal ambitions by exploiting and friendly media, by creating constructions of unexistent events, words, phrases, phrases that have suffered the next 24 hours, to adopt - this is the demand of the people who are following us - the model of tender competition. This is the model of how we will be much more creative and essential in the formation of a public administration - since it is the draft legislation in question - which will be in the process of serving citizens, which will not be the public for the public, which is the concept of evaluation. What assessment, though? The evaluation that will capture the worthy, the effective, the fertile, the creative ones. This cannot be done because basically SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks as government, from January 25th onwards, operate in a mined landscape. The Minister said so too. The concept of evaluation, not as punishment - we evaluate 15% must be fired - but evaluation as a process, which captures and distinguishes the one who must stay and get bonuses, get "go", strengthens his work, be it a doctor, be it a teacher, be it a teacher, be it a minister of public information and public television and radio speech. Instead of levelling that whatever I do, no matter what happens, eventually the result will be the same, namely moderateism, to adopt what I have just said. This can't be done if we don't get back to normality. So we come out through the monumental tunnel, where the primary need for first aid, the first step, the kiss of life is about restoring the concept of public good. Public hospital, public school, public water company. We come out of a tunnel of irresponsible slander, slander, desecration, enmity for all the public. Doctor? Sachet. Professor? Especially. Taxpayers? Missa. Universities? European programmes. Farmers? Subsidies. Micro-mediums? Forensics. Where's that going? The society that has to operate - and I insist again - is fragmented by the process of competitive tendering rather than by distortion of competition. The political leadership, within the parliament or outside it, chooses, targets, tries to eliminate its political opponent as if it were the great enemy, while the opponent is the problems that people and citizens expect to solve. From this tunnel we are dating, and that is why it is important that this bill is the first kiss of life, as the first first aid project, as Mr Katrugalos called it, to restore the relationship between the public service, the relationship between the public service and the public good in the end with the very society and the citizens for whom he exists and whom he serves. I now come to the evaluation. Today we have heard Mr Mitsotakis say 'evaluate for everyone'. So answer us. Were you rated the school guards? Did you evaluate the workers at the ERT? Did you evaluate the cleaning house, university administration, technical education teachers, men and women of Municipal Police? Oh, no! You obeyed what? So many heads on the troika dorva, hello! You had the time to carry out an evaluation. We are talking about a whole five-year-old: three thousand of them, a thousand of them, seven hundred of them, it is enough to serve the commitment to the troika! Today, in this very drugged field, we have to close the wounds, get back to normality. A creative counter-population - and I see Mrs Asmakoulou - would say in the context of a fruitful and creative dialogue: 'We have done well, we have fired them all, worthy and unworthy, workers and archipelagos. We made a crime. Why do you hire them all again without evaluation?’ And that is where the real debate begins. Because I do not believe anyone in this Chamber is saying that all school security officers, all ERT workers, all workers in water, all workers in these public services were unworthy, arrogant, lazy and to adopt this model. This is how we define this'standard field'. Assessment of structures, agencies and persons. That is the question of this kind of evaluation, which will really go beyond this previous very incriminating past. And I'm tabling them for the minutes next. Forty years, PASOK and New Democracy were the process of customer relations. Did we fix it? I am tabling the Minutes - since the representative, Mr Kedicoglou, is now missing - the thirty-five experts, experts with the hair and pentokills who were hired for the two years 2012-2014. He has specific names, doesn't have to be mentioned. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafylides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need just one more minute, Mr. President, if you're kind enough. Then let's just say it's zeroed. They did what they did, did the crimes they committed, appointed their own children, their best friends in positions of scientific associates, etc. They made NERIT. NERITT is your creation on the basis of your self-criticism that "we did what we did, but now we're going to build an independent public television". Mr Pantelis Kapsis himself declares to the National Representation on February 3, 2014 that recruitment to the ID did not take place in merit. Mr. Burning says so. On page 12 of the contract is the world originality in which the multiplier multiplys the high school diploma and counts more than the university's degree. Is that all they call it? ESA says it: "Aggression and misleading promises of a precarious job are now part of our daily life". It says "NATIONAL": "Procedures for perforated proclamation, aalum with recruitment". Then again, ESA says about trying to create a small Athenian center channel. We have complaints about how to assess journalists. Mr Fortsakis, President of the Supervisory Board, denounces it. He's talking to Mr. Prokokokaki, NERIT. I'll testify his own document, too. It is the official document "NERIT Epidemic Council". "In addition, following the numerous complaints published every day, but also today's names of the President of OELE on false statements of foreign languages, the Supervisory Council invites you..." In the end, he has a handwritten signature "Theodoros Fortsakis", head of the New Democracy ballot. Let's just say that they belong to the past and leave them behind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Comrade, you spent nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u239	I'll be right back, Mr. President. All of this, let's leave it in the past and take lessons. What I would like in conclusion to ask and say is that you are denouncing the Minister, Mr. Katrugalo, that he is legislating for his clients. You denounce Triantafylides as a Member: "The Triantafylides legislates to return to his work." In addition to the thousands of five hundred and fifty-nine returning, plus the seven hundred who will find there from the IT and NERIT, we have the three hundred of the new public television. In fact, when criticising the MEP Triantafylides who will ask and testify his papers to have an indefinite contract of private law on unpaid wages or on a suspension as the lawyers define - what the legal office says - really what does that mean? Will you forbid, Mrs Ahmakopoulou - since you will come to Stepma after being a representative of the New Democracy - my fellow Members in the ERT of the New Democracy to deposit their papers? I won't say names.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Colleague, you've been ten minutes. There are another fifty-eight of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u241	I'll be right back, Mr. President. I would ask this question at some point to be captured, answered and honestly put back. I repeat: an assessment, yes, but not as punishment. I'm sure yes to the offer competition, but not to the deterioration competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, too. Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a hundred days after the rule of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, I think that the term that I would now use to describe the situation that the country is living in is a distress story. A hundred days later, the country broadcasts SOS at all levels. The economy broadcasts SOS. We had a forecast for growth rate of 2.9%. That's it. The forecasts are now talking about 0.5% and perhaps even a recession. Spreads have been ejected to God. The cost of interest rates has increased. Our international houses have degraded. There are divergences in revenue and it seems that we are scratching the bottom of the barrel again, taking again and again from the public bodies with legislative acts of what is left of them. Banks emit SOS, having reduced deposits and borrowed at higher interest rates via ELA, while red loans have increased. The private sector broadcasts SOS. It's become an internal payment stop. The debts are increased every day. Business is closing. Unemployment is beginning to rise again, where it was beginning to fall. Of course the citizens also emit SOS, because they live in this terrible insecurity they don't know if they get a pension if they get a salary if they lose their job if they shut down the business they work. We are, of course, waiting for Mr Tsipras finally to make this famous agreement, the best agreement within the Eurozone. That's what you brought in. You sold hope. Now, of course, you're selling optimism. After the agreement of 20 February, the creative ambiguity agreement, in which you did not receive any money and which the Prime Minister admitted to be wrong, you are selling optimism: 'Now the political agreement is coming'. 'Now in March it is coming'. "The next Eurogroup is coming." 'April is coming'. "The agreement is coming." "hey, now, the interim agreement is not coming. Now the final agreement is coming.' In the meantime, of course, you are still indulging in this incredible bilingualism within and outside, which is nothing but an exercise, where you are trying to balance your internalities on a stretched rope. But that's not all you're doing. In the meantime, serve another tactic that is no more than the payout of your election stamps. You started with the bill for the abolition of Type III prisons. Sure! This was a return to the terrorists, the hoodmen, with the photographic provision for the release of Savvas Xirus. You continued with the ERT bill to get back, as Mr. Panagulis said, those who helped you to vote in power. You continue, of course, with today's bill, which also has a heavy title 'Democratisation of Administration'. So let's see what you call 'democratisation of administration'. You call 'democratisation' photographic provisions, to take over your voters again, to create a party army, so that you can control the state - the state - for plunder, the state to be yours, the state to be the man of your power - to satisfy trade unionists who supported you. That is what you are doing with the changes in the disciplinary boards - let us not be fooled - and with the status of a fair holiday. Of course, I also expect an explanation of what this amendment on 'DENMARK' is, because that would be beyond every limit. What I am interested in, however, is that you are mainly indifferent to something that is a universal demand for all society, not those who voted for SYRIZA, ANEL, New Democracy, PASOK or whatever people have voted for. That's decency in public. That's none of your business. I am going through the removal of availability here. We said most of all it's the party army. You're not interested in limiting the swollen public. You're not interested in making a rational distribution of staff to the public. You don't even care where you find the 72m euros a year to pay all these people. Perhaps Mr. Mardas will find them on his way from the office to the house or from the house to the office, as he found the EUR 400 million he was looking for for pensions. But I come back to what's less of a concern to you than anything. That's decency. I am referring specifically to the undetermined SAPA members. They're young people, scientists, educated. They are children who have studied with sacrifices made by their parents, children who have fought, and children who have been through a transparent phenomena. But you don't care about them, even though they justly claim, in a way and with great dynamism, self-evident. They're claiming self-evident. But for you, they are on second fate, because first of all they are to pay off their obligations and create the party army. That's what you're interested in, not these kids. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Minister, in Article 20, in particular paragraph 3, you define a new tendering procedure and the remodelling of the recruits of the AACC. This, of course, is nothing but Article 51 of the Treaty. 4250/2014, brought last year by the Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis. So I ask, Minister, how is your rapporteur, Mr Mitropoulos, then, to say that this is unconstitutional, to argue today with us on the reverses? When was he telling the truth? Then he was telling the truth or is he telling the truth? You've been informed of how much time the notice will take out, what will the procedure be, what will be done? Do you have money in 2015 to do it or actually go to 2016 and make fun of these kids? You have to give them a clear answer. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that I am supposed to stress the verb'supposed' - that you have come here to represent something new and to leave behind the views of the state and parties, even my own party, the New Democracy, the PASOK, those of power parties and government. Well, today we are at the core of this mentality that has brought us here. The core of this attitude is none other than the party state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. If I could incorporate this into a scene, a visual one, I would say to you that it is a political office - choose you, a minister, a MP or a big lawyer, who is more likely to be in power - and there comes a representative of the institution, a trade unionist or, worse still, a parent who wants his child to be settled. A struggle for the future of his child and actually sells what power he has, so he can get something. Back when there were some money, it might have been an increase. Today is not that. It's the re-entry. That's exactly what we're all supposed to fight against, isn't it? I'm supposed to - and again stress the verb'suppose' - regardless of the perceptions we may have ideologically or politically about the size of the state, about the role of the state, leave them aside, that you are here to help the weak, right? You're supposed to be here for this. It seems, however, that with the "first time left" government, weak, are those who have not voted for SYRIZA, have not fought for the SYRIZA election or have not passed through the office of the relevant Minister in an election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and apprentices and nine educational attendants from the 9th Elementary School of Katerini. Welcome, dear friends! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Constantine Tasoulas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, it is called by this Step on the grounds of the bill on public administration that this bill expresses the political power or those political forces, which have decided to support the many, the people contrary to the earlier government, who were in favour of neoliberal logic and oligarchy and that we are on different sides. We were not on different banks, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to be honest. At least we were not on different banks until the bankruptcy of the country, we were on the same bank and we competed with who would be more pleasing to the people. We who ruled, did it with action. You who have not ruled, have done so with words and encouragements. We were all on the same bank of populism: right, left, centre, PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA. We were all plundering other acts, others in the speeches in favour of benefits, in favour of rights, in favour of the so-called people...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u246	Possibly?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u247	...in favour of the State, in favour of the granting of rights, against the obligations. It was the scene of the Transition, the scene after a dictatorship, which obviously favoured an uproar of democracy and an uproar of rights, but this uproar of democracy and rights went progressively, insidiously, wrongly and injuriously to the other end. We went to the other end and served the other end, the end of immunity, the end of all this Greece, which broke down on the rocks in 2009 and suddenly, while we were on the same bank of responsibilities for this bankruptcy, we moved and some of us decided to go to another bank and some stay on the same bank of demagoguery and populism and pillaging ears. Indeed, we have been on another bank for four to five years. We have moved and decided clumsy, arrogant, once right to change the bank and we have decided to ignore the political cost, taking into account our responsibilities. There has been a huge effort with enormous sacrifices by the Greek people to redefinite its position within Europe, because it would admittedly be a great damage and a huge disaster for the country to exit from Europe. So we moved to another bank, a tougher policy has been implemented, which has had dramatic repercussions in a short time, but it has also had results and these results have started to appear since autumn 2014. And the other bank, the bank in which you remained, committed to the need to demolition, to plunder, to portray things more difficult than it is, put Greece on a great adventure and put it on a great adventure, which continues from autumn 2014 until today and we don't really know where it will lead. Others fear the worst, others hope that the best solution will be to make the country's normality a protracted drag and other ultra-Globalists believe that they will change Europe from internal political changes to a small country in Europe, and Europe will realize that it has been wrong and that it is absolutely right that SYRIZA is doing what it is, as a representative of modern Greek and post-government populism and demagogicism. I wish it were, very happy, but we're far from it. And all these legislations that you are doing, including that which we are discussing now, are being done under the depressing shadow of the top event that is obviously not this bill, the fact that the country is standing up, to go beyond its obligations and to secure its position in Europe and that the economy begins to move forward. This top event that only postpones, ambiguities and heroic words has to show in the last quarter, we do not see real progress. You have chosen some subdivisions of your programme to show the electorate that you have voted to respect your commitments, but keep them, as the poet says "the reason for the crash has become a waterfall", i.e. by tragedies and drops of legislation, not with reasons and waterfalls. With crashes and posters you are trying to imitate the program you announced in Thessaloniki. It is a ruptured and senta of your programme the 200 million humanitarian aid. The programme of democratisation of administration, tragedies and evacuation in connection with the radical change that the administration wants, with corrections to our own mistakes, but with changes that have nothing to do with the incorporation of supposed rights, which restores the administration's ties to trade unionism and immunity. So I see it and let me see it without being a representative of the oligarchy, without being a representative of a heifer monster. I'm just on another bank from you, but not always, from 2010 onwards. I was with you, one who dared not take on his responsibilities, while you prolong this period of naivety, damage to the country. Let's remember something. SYRIZA, who, with such vile and cruelness, speaks of the results of the elections in relation to those who were defeated, what party was with the vote of the sovereign Greek people, who was obviously dominating and now last year and before 15 years? SYRIZA or whatever was called, in '93 it got 2.9%, in '96 it got 5%, in 2003 it got 3%, in 2004 it got 3.3%, in 2007 it got 5%, in 2009 it got 4.6% and in 2015 it obviously took 36%. The people when for twenty years had put you between 3% and 4% were a people who did not know their interests, a people who have been misled for twenty years? Because a drifter for 20 years tell me what else he is? If it were so, because I believe that the people always dominate. So the people have changes, they have outrages, they have generosity, they have punishment, they have remorse, they have diversity. The people, who have seen you for twenty years as a party in the margin, because their lives have indeed been tempered for the last four, five years, have wanted to punish and found a mechanism of punishment. Take care of this punishment mechanism, which is you and nothing more, not to become a mechanism of self-punishment of a people, a country, a future. Because if I judge from these bills you bring, if I judge from your speeches, if I judge from your mind, judging from the two "we" if I judge from "what we are and what you are", the good and the bad, in the most naive version, then a punishment mechanism of our own is turned into a mechanism of self-punishment of a country and a people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u249	There are the forces and possibilities to prevent this mechanism of self-punishment, because the country must be corrected. But it must not be corrected by your ghosts and demons. We all served these together by 2010. It has to be corrected by keeping you committed to the past and you do not change 'polluter'. We've changed 'bottom'. We're in a different 'rope', not warfare, than you. We are at the 'root' of realism, the 'bank' of responsibility, our mistakes and our omissions. Take care of the great picture of the negotiation of a punishment mechanism not to develop into a mechanism of a country's suffering self-punishment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Please, ladies and gentlemen, respect the time. There is a list of fifty five of your colleagues to speak. Mr Michael Kritsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. I have the impression that today we are discussing a bill which, if not all of these five-year legislations, would not have been necessary to discuss. The 'human sacrifices', the lies that the civil servants are one and a half million, and indeed by an oral Prime Minister and a number of others prepared this whole situation, which we are trying to raise today. Those who voted and applauded the 'human sacrifices' are coming to make an opposition, which has nothing to do with any other policy that opposes this policy. They come with noteworthy, side-by-side and paradoxical arguments to do the same, that is what the Greek people rejected Genarris 2015, to bring it, while leaving the door with the elections, out of the window with tricks. Today is an hour when the government is negotiating for the first time. He has from 14 August a euro to drop in the country, because they also condemned the previous government of their own, Mr Samaras, because they knew that another government, that of SYRIZA, was coming, and had to go into the immediate vicinity to subdue, to sign what the others did not want to sign, and - willingly, is the word that was appropriate - they signed and made that they were negotiating, and they were begging and giving information. That's why there's evidence. Gentlemen of the Opposition, especially the New Democracy, the Officer of the Opposition, initially said we weren't legislating and now you say we're getting tired of you. You didn't want Big Thursday, you didn't want Easter Tuesday, you don't want Mondays, you don't want Tuesdays and Fridays, which says the song. When do you want to? You don't want this government to legislate. I will tell you that the proof is that we are making progress in implementing our commitments and in implementing our programme in general and in the field of public administration. A proper response for the two previous speakers from Accuracy Opposition, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou and Mr Tasulas, is that: the party that had 3% and 4% went to 16%, to 27% and to the majority and to the government precisely because she opposed this policy that you applied so many years ago, when you prepared the Greek part of the crisis and during the five-year period, because she stood against it. And now you are coming and trying with tricks and without politics - you have not managed to find and stand up for opposition policy and opposition - to solve your own internal problems, especially the New Democracy, to bring services, supposedly, to the Greek people. However, despite the suffocating pressure, particularly the financial pressure we accept from the partners, and despite the policy of trenches and sabotage on the part of specific parties, other less and more, other unequivocally and other covered, most of which also bear responsibility for the situation, we will proceed. I attended the entire bill at the four meetings of the committee responsible directly and as chairman of the committee. So I have two things to notice. The first - which I have already said - is the absence of politics and the second is the attempt to undermine it in detail. However, none of the government claims that this bill is being solved with one of all the problems of public administration, which I think is to the credit of both the Ministry and the Government and the Minister or, if you like, of the Ministers. We are not mocking anyone, and above all we are not mocking citizens, as the late and supposedly defenders of rights, that is, parties of the previous Memorandum Governments, have done. With the arrangements of this draft law, we are attempting to remedy the major injustices and to form a framework, in order to ensure the smooth operation of the public administration and, above all, to serve the social interest. This bill is - as Mr Katrugalos has repeatedly pointed out, but also Mr Voutsis as ministers - the first step, the first word in the government's effort to develop public administration. This is also an answer to all those who support their criticism here, supporting in some magical ways the resolution of all the problems of public administration, 'without raining' - something - '...to eat fish'. In particular, the New Democracy and the PASOK, as well as the Potami with their opposition tactics, are defending that policy, which has essentially destroyed the public sector - which is necessary and we all know why - and it has brought it into a resounding economic situation and which we now call on the new government to bring up. Those people who were shredded into all the checks of lenders and fatally fired people from the public without any objection and reaction, are today pushing to keep things, as they had, pressure to keep the public sector a tool to serve the interests of large private enterprises. Their wages are worthy, though! Citizens are aware not only of the arrangements of the bill, but also of the day-to-day contact with reality, with the effort of the government and government officials. This government is working, in spite of the adversities and the attacks we have on the outgoing troika - because it is not a troika - from within and outside, to solve these problems that have been accumulated in their policy. A strong point of the bill is his own goal. Another possible point of the bill is the number of meetings with the institutions, and the agreement of society through bodies and in this way, and the acceptance of numerous proposals by the institutions, but also of the opposition parties that now come to Parliament and that they did not notice that. Even at the moment in the debate on the bill in plenary we are trying and correcting possible weaknesses. For this reason, I will end with two such proposals for corrections to the bill. But I will be tempted to speak for a minute on a few yesterday's speeches, but also on the speeches by the last two speakers, Mr Tassoula and Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou. Mr Tasoulas spoke of the 'nothing intimidated people'. Really? Is the people supposed to be grounded? You don't even recognize the crime now? To say what the great painter said when they showed him his work, Guernica. The German officer asked him "you did this work?" And the great painter answered "no, you", because Guernica destroyed it in World War II. In the same way - in a match, I am not saying that it is the same - they come today and do that they do not know. The painting is something else. In fact, some do not see him clearly. And I shall end by saying this: what party state, Mrs Asmakopoulou? What worthyness? What public and what party army? What do you have in mind, to give up on them... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask you to give me some more time to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Colleague, you should not exceed your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u253	I would ask, Mr President, that I approach the nine and a half minutes that the previous speaker has had. Seventeen, eighteen years they mock people who were successful in ASAP and now they come and shed crocodile tears, as if there are no such people and they don't know who they are who they are who speak and who they are, anyway. Minister, I would like you to see the issue of the successors of the '98 SAP' again, that is to say, that these people have two things. At some point it mentions the bill, as it came: "Based a series of success with the score, with which they had joined the list of assignors in the initial positions" etc. This must be changed, Minister, and the phrase 'the ranking of the CSCE' should be introduced instead of 'appointees', so that these people can be justified. They must be vindicated, not because it's SYRIZA, as anyone says. People came here who are New Democracy and protest and say, "Why have you forgotten us all these years?" The second point concerns Article 20. ‘The provisions of that Article do not take over cases pending before the administrative courts’. There must be a concrete change there. The fact that someone is in court does not mean that he should be excluded. Because he may be right or not, but that is another matter. It cannot be because it is in the courts that it is not subject to the provision of the law. I think the Minister can accept it, but he will tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u255	Another very important point is that we have a protest by an institution I know about the work that it is doing throughout Greece, but in Heraklion it has specific action. It is the Association of Parents and Princess of the Disabled Persons "The Zoodochos Source" and the Parents and Wardens Association under the name "The Right to Life". I believe that this amendment we have tabled has come from unreservedness, as it proved yesterday, Minister. But we must not let this reproach become injustice. It can be corrected because it concerns forty-four bodies that operate as a CIFG OFF and which, for the vast majority of them, belong to parent associations, which serve a thousand four hundred people with disabilities from continuing to finance them through this amendment. So if this point is corrected, it will enable these bodies to serve their purpose. I think other colleagues have said so, who had not seen it for so many years, as they hadn't seen the issues of the success of the 1997-1998 SAAP. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Kritsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think, Minister, that they must respond to the above, as they must respond to the question of the workers of GREEN, which I think the Minister responsible accepts. If he can't see it right now, he can see it in the next bill, which you're welcome to promise he's coming. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. Minister, I hope you will accept some of what I have said and other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that you cannot ignore the time story. Some of your colleagues who will follow will be absolutely certain that they will have reduced time, will speak for five minutes instead of seven. Also, it is absolutely certain that some others will not be able to speak. I appeal to us to respect the time. Escaping from time to time is tolerable. But if we go to ten and eleven minutes there can be no effective meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u257	Mr. President, excuse me. You have to impose the seven minutes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u258	Madam President, I understand that, but for the proper functioning of the procedure, and for the debate to be effective, we should all have a restraint.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u259	The Bureau is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u260	And the Bureau will not interrupt you, but you too will keep the time. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government has been faced with a number of problems, created by the resumption of the New Democracy - PASOK. The policy it implemented was caught in a vicious circle of deadlocks, which in turn produced new deadlocks. The enthusiastic actions of the outgoing government include the consequences that the bill is being called upon to face up to. They are consequences which have to do with a number of anti-democratic practices, against public administration workers. In particular: Article 22(4) of the Constitution expressly prohibits any form of forced labour. However, it leaves the possibility of redefining personal services to certain emergency services for the country which the Constitution describes as well. Law 3536/2007, in Article 41, is supposed to specify these requisitions for reasons of public interest. What, however, has happened in practice, ladies and gentlemen? Article 41 of Law 3536 has become a tire which has been forgotten and used almost a few times to suppress various strikes in various professional classes, turning workers against their colleagues. Six times it has been used since 2010. The Lockout was thus legitimized by the public, a detestable method, condemned by the entire democratic world. The first article of this draft law is deleted. At the same time, the spirit of the Constitution referred to in Article 22(4) shall be clearly restored in cases of national emergency, which may make use of the exception provided for in the Constitution and under no circumstances as a means of dealing with strikes. In the second chapter of Article 3, the provisions of Law 4057/2012 and Law 4093/2012, also known as the Manitakis Act, are repealed with the provisions of which the public administration and the functioning of the State had paralysed. The equitable holiday at which any employee for offences in or out of service could be brought, without a prior final judgment of a judicial or service authority, except by prosecution against him, had established the civil servants. This draft law defines in the clearest terms the conditions and conditions upon which an employee may be put on holiday. In other words, the presumption of the innocence of the persecuted person and the right to a previous hearing shall be reintroduced. This is where we have to point out a great deal of truth. The scheme imposed by Law 4093 served a Memorandum of Understanding, that of a reduction in civil servants. This was the driving logic served by the Memorandum governments, but a logic that ended on January 25. Chapter three satisfys, inter alia, the need and the requirement of society for the use of information in connection with the automatic search for information, supporting documents and transactions with the public and electronic issuing of certificates. Articles 12 and 13 achieve two objectives at the same time. The first objective is to contribute to reducing bureaucracy and simplifying procedures for citizens in their dealings with the public administration. The second objective is to contribute to limiting the burden of public administration. At the same time, the security of information on civil personal data is ensured. The fourth chapter makes it possible to restore the greatest injustices in the public sector caused by the memorandum policies of recent years. The invention of availability, the abolition of services and organic positions, as well as the change of organograms of services, led to thousands of public servants being defrauded. The bill comes bravely to restore legality and regularity to the public, to restore at least at this level the absurdity of man-made memorials. The three lines of Article 14(3) are those which thousands of fellow citizens expected us to hear. The irrational institution of availability, with the adoption of this law in a few hours' time, will be a past. Once again, then, the government begins and implements its election commitments and breaks down step by step, but firmly, the memorials, the laws, their absurd logic and removes their consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's path is stricken with thorns, but we were well aware of that. Day after day, the government has a law that restores injustices, restores democracy, reason and removes the deadlocks of previous inefficient policies. Today that we are close to an agreement with our partners, today that is restored injustices and malfunctions in the public sector, the people are surrounded by the government and the Prime Minister with absolute confidence. No matter how many people bet on our failure, we will disprove them every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kyriazidis Dimitris from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u263	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, Minister, Minister, I have a written reason why I have noted so that I may be present. Listening to colleagues, and especially to young people, I have been very concerned about what the country needs, and I have often wondered whether what is being imposed and coming as a legislature. We have always stressed, in particular, that the largest patient in the state is the public sector. Of course, there have been positive arrangements. But you repeat, Minister, that sewage was constantly and permanently raging a state without continuity and, of course, it is next and without consistency. Indeed, I understand that the Left, after decades and after the reintegration in particular, had as its milestone the aim of becoming a government. And now, of course, against you, colleagues and colleagues of the SYRIZA, you are also trying, as the previous political presences have done, to build your own state. We have seen this with the original bill, a law over the state, on the humanitarian crisis, where three - four articles were in the headline. The rest of the contents actually concerned other issues, that is, the twenty-seven articles, and in particular how a state of control will be built on the part of the SYRIZA, by appointments to each prosecution mechanism as head, after secondments, so that it can direct and control and punish, of course, and also abolish the independent authority that had to do with corruption. We see the same in today's bill. Your turn has come, as it seems, so that you can take care of your own children, as was mentioned by Mr Panagulis, who at the previous year, in the previous parliamentary term, said that many of us - and I listened strangely as a new Member - if we do not lead to special courts, it is good to wish that we do not have the fate of the American Ambassador in Libya, who has been lynched. Unfortunately, this work we have also seen with the coming of PASOK is repeated so that there is one - one - historical restoration, as a historical necessity, to settle its own children. And of course we come to your time now, when every positive provision you do not understand it, and as a result you want to create your own state, as we have seen with the second bill and law, which was about the releases of terrorists, as we have seen with the bill and law now concerning ERT, where we believe that Koumoundourou and "AGEI" will change the address and settle in the Radiometer. I sincerely regret, and I myself come to an internal audit, if all of this is about progress, in the hope that this will have to be born into this people, which, two and a half years ago, New Democracy has been ruled by PASOK, trying to create a substrate under necessary sacrifices, so that it will finally breathe. Unfortunately, all this is going to merry. All this is being destroyed under this hermaphrodite many times your political tactics, practice, which is foreigners and aspartners. But what no one wants to expect is to have this definitive end for the country and for the citizens. So how, Mr Minister, will we keep up with the other partners, with the other states of Europe, when they run on certain cars - I do not want to say - and we run on cars of a previous decade? We can't keep up, Minister. Belgium had no government for two years. And yet, the state was working. We, unfortunately, cannot stand by and constantly pursue self-evidently. After the transfer, we have the right, the centre, the socialist part and the left. I want to believe - and I wish for the country - that the left will not be the swan song, the recivem of this political system. Of course, I do not want to believe - for the country, but not for the Left as it works - that it will be the last act of the post-government period. That is what I wanted to say, Minister. I leave my written speech in the Minutes, with all this concern, because unfortunately the Left does not bring anything new. Unfortunately, it is distinguished by an old-fashioned practice and practice, which leads us many years back. I hope this does not happen at the expense of the country! I put the text of my speech in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I do not see Mr Leucasco in the Chamber. It's his turn to talk. Abstentions. My colleague, Ilias Cameroon, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's one of the times that, by watching the speeches, you change what you have in mind to say. I cannot help but mention what Mrs Asmakopoulou said. I think it was provocative. If you want, listen to them, if you don't want to, that's okay. He described us as a disaster situation, an image of destruction. Close shops, spreads go up, unemployment, etc. But I have one question. What he's now presenting as dissertation story, why would Genarus present it as a success story? Because that was Genarus. That's why you lost the election, that's why the elections were held. You even asked us to feel sorry for the weak, those who did not vote for SYRIZA, because this bill takes care of them. That's what you're right about, but do you know why? Because those weak men that we consider weak, we settle. Why, what do you know from weak ones? Do you know the people who are waiting for the benefits? Do you know those who can't do medical examinations and wait months or don't do at all? Do you know those who have no care or who die in hospitals, in the islands? Do you know those who are guarded on the small islands? Do you know people who are hosting? Do you know those who stay unpaid, work at hotels even for a year or work twelve and fourteen hours without contracts of employment, who fire them whenever they want? You know those who stay uncooked, why can't they go to school where they live? Do you know all those people that are really weak? They all voted SYRIZA, you know it, and they need to be favored. These are our kids. Yeah, that's what we want to do. We have vision for them, we have positions and schedule. But what's the problem? The problem is that, in order to do this, we need to break down laws, we need to break down attitudes, we need to tear down all the mechanisms that you have set up for so many decades and which still undermine the work of the government. Because, as many ministers have said very typically, they do not have the power. So this bill is an emergency bill, too, until what is provided for in our plan. Even the previous bills we voted on were what we wanted. And that was an emergency. And the humanitarian crisis, and the doses, it was all emergency. Some people said so, but don't get us to criticize those who created the holes on the ship. Because we're going to close up those holes. We're racing on the boat so it won't sink until he goes to the port. I want to address two - three points in the bill very briefly. Indeed, citizens are relieved, especially in remote areas, by simplifying certain procedures, such as documents, certificates running from them. It's not what we want, it's got to be a radical change in this thing, but imagine the islanders taking the ship and traveling days to get a certificate they ask for, from one island to another. There are some things in this bill on health. Facilitate procedures for some recruitments. Do you know how much they're gonna help? For example, for subsidiary doctors. It is not our vision to have subsidiary doctors. We want a public health system that has doctors for exclusive use and has structures that support citizens and family doctors and everything we say. But, at this stage, until all this is done, do we not have to deal with the problem? Simplified procedures are therefore provided for, which can provide for subsidiary doctors and, in particular, in the difficult areas - because until now, they have not come - incentives are provided for doctors to come in which we can use contracts and which will come as individuals in emergency cases where there are no corresponding doctors in the hospital to help. And one last thing I'll say, to be in my time, for immigrants. You know what's important is what's going to be done with the bill, making it easier for people to hire in the services, in the structures that are currently facing the immigration problem? Wherever you go to my area, where we have major influxes of immigrants, refugees in this particular case, you get hurt. The fact that certain structures are still being kept is because of the heroic effort of some people, some of them employees. They go to the port, and they've crossed their limits, and you can't help them, because you can't hire. You've banned them. You're going to the police, the same thing. People have exceeded their limits and their families are at risk. You can't hire, nor can you transfer apprentices from the Police School that you booked two years ago. In all this bill gives breath, gives solutions, and I repeat - ending with it - that it is not what we want, but it is the help we want to the weak, who are our own children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and the consistency in time. The Minister, Mr Mardas, wants to develop an amendment. Minister, is that about three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u267	Three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u268	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to an amendment relating to the communication of payments made at the 'DENMARK'. First of all, there has been an impression that it is going to abolish any posting of payments in the 'DENMARK'. That's wrong. What we are doing is very simple, which makes it easier - I can tell you - to manage. Those involved in management understand that. Just the time to communicate to the "DENMARK" of payments made on 31 December, for example, and go to the 31st of January. That's what's going on. It makes it easier for the administration. It is not a matter of the General Accounting Office of the State, it is a matter of pressures faced by units dealing with management issues, particularly in municipalities and regions, where major problems are encountered at the end of the year. That is what we are proposing, and of course, exceptionally for this year, an extension of this communication for ten days from the time the law is being announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u271	I'm sorry, Mr. President, may I ask the Minister a question to clarify something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u272	Do you have a question, Mr. Theochari?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u273	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u274	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u275	Is this another amendment, or are you clarifying the amendment that has already been tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u276	It's a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u277	So there's a change going on with these clarifications you're making, or is it as we knew it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u278	As we knew her, no change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u279	As we know her, no change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u281	Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u282	I fear that the state has been built through a political alloy of populism. It was swelled, built unreservedly and uncomplicatedly. And through another political view of neoliberalism, it was equally unreserved and unreserved. The question - I fear - about the drafting of the state, about the planning of the state, about the architecture of the state is a question that goes beyond this bill. This bill sets out some regaining principles - let us say - a balance and a law, the issue of identification and the possibility of crossing data. However, he does not answer this central political question, namely what the functionality of the state is, how it is directed at the citizen and how the state does not aim for itself, but for the 'armed' citizen, who does not have the means, who cannot address a greater edge, to a greater political instrument. So he does not answer his question how he can serve this citizen, facilitate him and also, in this way, secure social symbolic and literal resources. This schizophrenia of our political system to enlarge and dismantle and then destroy the state, a mechanism that should be the first social function - is the wealth-making mechanism of the state, especially in Greece that has no production - I think it remains to be answered and that the whole political system needs to take codecision, a co-decision in order to form and exalt. It is important that you address the people who manage the state in a completely different way, because so you can take the good they bear, that is, in a "loving" way, in a way of trust. One of the most important nursing features of the previous period was the destruction of trust. No one had the feeling that any reform was being done for good, but they were all convinced that it was a trap against them, with no reform, no reconstruction, no remodeling to walk, no repetition. The restoration of collective confidence within the institutions of the State is therefore not a mere good deed. It is an operational decision that has strength and can also develop a bill and collective provisions, namely the way in which we want to regulate our relations with the state. A lot has been said about the rebuilding and reconstruction effort. Under pressure from the crisis, the state tried, the governments tried, the political authority tried to reconstruct the state, to reconstruct it. We know very well that bureaucracy has deteriorated very much, that we have a mixture of digital and analogue bureaucracy, one system does not buckle with the other. You have to make a census - all sorts of census - and then you have to as a natural person validate it by being present at the service, that is, multiple chaos of what we had, which means that something is not designed. Also, this mechanism is against the honest citizen, because the honest citizen will not resort to bypass, he will not resort to the accelerator, through which he can overcome bureaucratic obstacles and do his job in town planning. The unarmed and honest citizen will remain hostage to this retreat and remain in a left-wing government and a progressive system to restore this. We need to restore functionality, because that is the people's state, and that also answers the fundamental questions of what we all call the rule of law, democracy, open society, a turn to the citizen. I think that through this we can exalt, reconstruct and reconstruct. Is that the bill in this direction? I think that conditionality may be, but we know very well that the legislative part is the first and the next part of reality comes, how legislative construction is actually integrated. We know, then, that the difficult thing, which is off-limits, is the second part when it comes to touching reality. However, I think that this is not only the question of the crossing of the various systems, where in any case they must be 'driven' a little, but it must also be done through the restoration of a deep confidence and not through the exploitation of tolerance, as was the case so many years ago, which everyone felt to be innocent, that they have a huge esteem and that was directed against the citizen. So through such a new type of moral rigour this bill can work, gain its strength and also have a clear conscience that we supported it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, sixty students and students and four educational attendants from the Arkalochori High School of Heraklion. We welcome you guys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Helen Sotiria from SYRIZA has the floor. Immediately after that, the Minister will take the floor, Mrs Tasia Christodoulopoulos. I would remind you that at 16: 00 we have decided that we shall make the roll-call vote. I would remind you again, after the speeches made by Mrs Sotiria and the Minister of State, that we should take this into account. Here you go, Mrs. Sotiri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, why is this title and why this bill? Because there is a need for democratisation and a lot of work must be done in this direction. This bill is a first step, because there is a great deal of bureaucracy to be limited, because there are gross injustices to the detriment of public workers. It is more than obvious that it is a first step that is necessary and that gives the signal of what we want to do, what our direction is and what we see for the public, for its functions, for the civil servants. We do not think that this bill is enough. We believe it is a first condition. One colleague said before - and fairly - that there is not even enough vote for a bill. It is important to implement it and how it will be done. Objections and arguments have been heard in today's debate, such as'state renegotiation', such as 'law is the law of the client', such as 'health is above the strike' and many such. The Qualified Opposition tells us we want to get back to the old government. What's that? What is it for, the party, the corrupt, inefficient for the citizen, the clientele? They criticize the party state and the truth is that it is their creation, it is a creation of the New Democracy and of the PASOK that state. It is their creation, because it is very simple, to be in power for decades now, that they should create such a state and such an administration. In fact, are they talking about a state - 'brain' to a three-month government? It is ineffective, because no substantial interventions have ever been made to rationalise it. The interventions of the last five years, namely the Memorandum, have been based on a very simple plan: firstly, alignment with the Memorandum of Understanding and cheques, so redundancies, availability and removal of agencies. Secondly, demolition of public administration, public goods, overall restriction of the benefits and services granted to citizens. But one more thing: it is the blow of the mind and reasonable claim, it is the confiscation of whoever was mobilizing and claiming, it is the imposition of a model of workless and obedient. You know what? The problem of Officer Opposition is not the specific trade unionists. Their problem is unionism and everything that has to do with him. It is the claim of self-evident rights many times. For example, I will mention a few parts of the bill. The political commitment was a means of dealing with strikes. Sometimes something like that even happened, and we all know it. How else does it explain that in the past five years there have been so many recruitments, as a whole over the past three decades, can there be more? The argument of public health cannot be used because you have destroyed health as a public social asset. After all, it is the memorial that has seriously affected public health. Disciplinary law: In fact, provisions that gave wide margins of discretion and misinterpretations and created risks of breaching a basic right, such as the presumption of innocence. We say that the participation of workers in disciplinary boards is a good and democratic thing. Why do workers and the public, more specifically? One next point: Rehabilitation of major categories of workers in public and in key sectors. Mostly we restore injustices related to the Memorandum and know that there were previous periods and we know that we are not completing the restoration of injustices with this bill. We need to move on to a next phase and far beyond. It is fair, for example, to restore the successes of the 1998 SAAP. In the last five years a policy has been implemented which has reduced the public by 21%, i.e. two hundred and twenty - one thousand public workers. Is that from the previous government called 'ordinary distribution'? The gradual withdrawal of the State from health and welfare, the reduction of teachers to what exactly is it part of the project? What's the public we want? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute. I'll say very little so I don't abuse time. I do not claim that this bill builds the public we want. But it is an important step. In this direction and in this perception we have, there are many conditions for another public. I will only mention two of them: One condition is that the public is not just a mechanism, it is not just an administration. They're also public social goods. When these do not exist and have been abolished, such as health and education, what are we talking about in public? A second element: it is not in our view the separation of officials - and of civil servants - into worthy and unworthy. We have a different concept of it. To close, I'll make a comment. Can I tell you the truth? When this new Republic expresses such great concern - 'We are worried about how the country will go, we are concerned about how SYRIZA will go, on the basis of the negotiation that it is doing' - I am really worried when it is expressed. Do you know why? Because you had a certain choice, based on the checks and interests of lenders and German Europe. Our choice - and on this basis we will be judged - is the salvation and dignity of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Christodoulopoulos, Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Management, has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the bill there are two articles I would like to mention, Article 26 and Article 19, but also Amendment No 112/52, which refers to the increased needs which exist due to increased migration flows on our islands. The first is about the local police officers and the effort made by some of them - if they of course want - to be exploited by our Ministry, since there are already a number of them - to the Asylum Service. You know after him. 3907/2011, which founded the Asylum Service, the First Reception Service and the Appeals Authority, these services remained understaffed. On the basis of this, and the ban on recruitment, it was not possible for these services to do their job satisfactorily. In 2014, with the transfer of municipal police officers to the Greek Police, some municipal police were available, which were also highly qualified - postgraduate, etc. - to these services. Not only did they send these services, but they also improved their work and actually managed to have satisfactory procedures, as provided for in European directives. We now have enough to absorb them in these services, since, due to increased flows, there is now a risk that the First Reception Asylum Services and the Appeals Authority will collapse. Thus, Article 19 refers to the possibility of transferring municipal police officers to the Ministry of the Interior and especially to the Department of Migration Policy. By the way, I would like to thank the local police officers who have been offering their services to these services for so long and to invite them as much as they can frame these services, because they really produce an important project. The second article is Article 26, which exempts from the PYC recruitments they have to make for exceptional border needs. Here too, this provision is about the extraordinary migratory flows which are constantly increasing in our country and there is a need for temporary recruitment - and with a project contract and a service contract - to staff who will help to meet these emergencies. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] I am going to go to Amendment No 112 and to specific number 52, which refers to the issue of overcoming the tenders, so that by negotiating, in particular, Community funds, we can absorb them within the deadlines - that is to say, directly - in order to meet the emergencies. Because if we go into the tender procedure, as you can see, nothing will be absorbed in the islands and in the centres of towns it will be dramatically worsened. You all know very well that the state was unprepared to cope with mixed migration flows. You know that since 2014 there has been a large increase in migration flows. For example, in the northern Aegean in 2014, flows of 206,76% and in the southern Aegean by 546,06% increased. However, the State was neither able to serve the services nor build hospitality structures. We are against Europe, because we have promised two and a half thousand hosting places and made nothing. However, last year the government and the government had requested permission to circumvent the tender procedures so that it too would be able to absorb the funds directly. Finally, we found ourselves in a financial void, because European funds had to be deposited... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, are you not interested in this? I guess not. However, I will say it for the viewers, who may be interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u287	Please be quiet in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u288	By October 2014 the funds should have been used up and the relevant proposals submitted, but they were never submitted. We are faced with a financial gap. So we have to absorb....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u289	What have you done three months now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u290	Let go. I'll tell you in your speech, Mr. Kikilia. We must therefore, in order to meet these needs, bypassing the competitive procedures, as I have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u291	Three months!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Kikilia, please don't shout. You don't usually shout. What's wrong with you today?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u293	The Minister's dragging us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u294	...as the previous government did, which not only prepared the state and structures for these extraordinary influxes that had occurred since 2014, but also throughout the period when the flows increased they charged the SYRIZA and the Minister concerned that it was responsible for the great influx of migratory flows. While in Italy, which has no SYRIZA government or Christodoulopoulos, we see multiple influxes being observed and, of course, confronted with common sense and reality. I would like, therefore, to conclude by saying that these two articles have the same recitals, namely the emergency needs on our islands, to address not only humanitarian needs, but mainly to monitor European directives, which oblig us to have Asylum and First Reception Services in human conditions and rapid procedures. We are talking, above all, about European directives that we really must respect, because we will constantly be threatened with fines and against the money we claim, we will find ourselves or we will be called upon to pay fines. As a result, both the amendment and the two provisions seem to me to be a common and imperative need to be voted on by the whole House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Minister. It seems to me, in fact, that the wing here is so noisy on such an important issue, which concerns our country and also policies that have been pursued in the past and must be redefined. Madam Minister, the European Parliament's Committee on Rights and Freedoms has invited me on this issue of immigration tomorrow. I think it will be a good opportunity for the European Parliament to be informed of your initiatives and of the issues raised for our country. Immigration cannot appear as a matter of reflection only for other Mediterranean countries, when Greece is at the heart of the issue, Mr Kumoucasco, who was also a Member of the European Parliament. Because there is a committee meeting in progress, and we also give the Members of Parliament a chance, whose committee has interrupted, come down, I will give the floor to another speaker. We shall then suspend the roll-call vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u296	Why, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u297	I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u298	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u299	Why should we give time to Members who participate in a committee? For the reason that they should not be excluded from the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u300	Madam President, can we not read the list twice?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u301	Please, ladies and gentlemen. The next speaker is Mr Kostas Zacharias from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u302	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the plan we are discussing today attempts to restore the injustices which the governments of the past five years, the governments of the memorandum, have brought to the devastated body of civil servants, who for the governments of the Memorandum were a 'emble people'. The large number of amendments, the positions of the competent ministers, indicate that the project is not easy, neither for the government nor for SYRIZA. They also point out that the main objective of the Memorandum of Understanding, namely liberalism with which he has been and remains the world of work. At the monstrous rate of unemployment we arrived from different roads in the private sector. However, the creation of conflicts between workers or the targeting of others was a common feature of the governments of the Memorandum. In the private sector, elastic working conditions are "killing horses when they grow" to create a new generation of workers, with no rights, no insurance, no prospects. In the public sector, entire services and branches have been depopulated and removed horizontally, at the same time as the evaluation process has always lost its meaning and now define as mobility, availability and at the end redundancies. The provisions of the Memorandum have been extended to all areas of public administration. They did not even exclude the sensitive area of public health. Today the National Health System has collapsed, with enormous shortages of nurses and medical staff, exceeding twenty thousand in numbers. There is, of course, a titanic effort to address the needs of health poverty and to the level of government support and at the level of real and free access to the National Health System. That's why the Prime Minister recently announced the four and a half thousand recruits of employees in the ERC. On the other hand, the ministerial decision on the uninsured, i.e. addressing the needs for care and health care of two and a half million Greeks, is in consultation at the moment. In order to stand by the ESS, however, on its feet and hospitals and particularly sensitive services, such as intensive care and treatment, we need to resort to emergency assistance. This is what the Ministry's amendment to recruit supplementary doctors with the general number 108 and a special 49 number is trying to help. The Ministry's amendment provides for a series of measures to accelerate the recruitment of qualified ancillary staff, in order to meet the exceptional needs, particularly in island, barren and remote areas. However, we must note here that there is a need to supplement the provision on the duration of the subsidiary contract so that three years remain in service, as also provided for by Law 4213/2013 for the ancestors and the problem areas, and it is not provided for in the amendment that we are discussing. Furthermore, provision must be made to extend the term of office and be able to apply to remain for subsidiary doctors currently serving in the public health system, with an extension by the end of 2015, which is also not provided for in the amendment. There is one subparagraph, paragraph 1 of the amendment, which provides for disciplinary penalties for ancillary staff. This is in direct contrast with the disciplinary procedure provided for in the bill we are discussing today in Article 3. I think that paragraph should be withdrawn. The main Memorandumary Measures against Work have led to flexible working patterns throughout the private and public sectors. We have public health workers with blocks, hospitals and health centres and various bodies supervised by the Ministry of Health, such as the Agency for the Control of Drugs. But we are obliged, as a government, to take the memorandum out of every aspect of work, so also in public health. The Ministry is attempting in its amendment of general number 108 and a specialist of 49 to control elastic relations at central level, and to curb a degree by central control of blockage work, which by the way we have to say is that it does not ensure either insurance or licences or other rights or prospects, of course, to these workers. They're temporary workers with temporary rights at work. We therefore want a group of SYRIZA Members to support in addition an amendment that we have tabled and to redraft the provisions so that doctors and other staff with a blockage can only be fully recruited in health structures of mountainous, minority and problematic areas and especially for the doctors of the ESS only after two atrocious notices. We also want the Anointed Society of Health Units not to participate in this provision, an anonymous private company that has been embedded in the ESS since the Olympic time and has been taking over activities and even entire hospitals, such as the Santorini Hospital. So, then, Santorini Hospital will work on a block? We need to think about this. I think the government should abolish AEMY itself. Democratisation, lifting injustices, effective hitting of the memorandum. That is how the SYRIZA Members see today's draft law, and that is why we support it decisively. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Zacharia. A request has been made for a roll-call vote by twenty-three Members of the New Democracy. ‘Athens 5 May 2015. To the Bureau of the Greek Parliament. Under Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the undersigned Members are calling for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill: "Democratisation of the administration - Combating Written and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions". Adopted by the Commission on 18 November. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Simo Kedicoglou, Ioannis Placiotakis, Dimitris Kyriazides, Adonis Georgiadis, Niki Kerameos, Theodoros Fortsaki, Charalambos Athanasios, Vasilis Yoyakas, Timoletos Kospsalis, Kostas Skreka, Kostas Tasula, Ioannis Antoniadis, Stefano Gika, Maria Antonio, Yiannis Kefloyannis, Yiorgos Stylion, Sophia Vultesis, Maximos Koukodimos, Manos Konsolas, Apostolo Vezyropoulos and Photini Arabatzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u304	Under Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the roll-call vote shall be taken, firstly, when an application signed by 1/20 of the total number of Members, i.e. 15 Members, is made - in this case this requirement is fulfilled - when an objection is raised pursuant to Rule 71(3) and in any event where the President considers it necessary. The names of the Members signatory to the request are given at the end of the debate on this particular matter. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we agreed yesterday that the debate will take place at approximately 14.00 hours in order to allow more speakers to be present. We're already at 16.20. Parliamentary representatives, a political leader, three ministers and thirty three fellow Members have spoken. I call on this House to declare the debate at the outset and, if the bill is passed in principle, to proceed with the debate on the articles, with the priority of registering the remaining Members who are still on the list in the debate on the articles and with a new listing of any new speakers. Do you agree to move on like this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u305	Therefore, the House unanimously agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction bill: 'Democratisation of the administration - Combating Written and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions'. I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. You can also say 'present' now that we are voting for your names. Besides, you're popular in the process when others talk. Mr. Mitsotakis Kyriakos. Abstentions. Mr. Kedicoglou Simos. Here you go. Mr. Plackotakis John. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides. Here you go. Mr. Georgiadis Spyridon - Adonis. Here you go. Mrs. Nikki Kerameau. Here. Mr. Theodores Fortsakis. Here you go. Mr. Charalambos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Vassilis Yoyakas. Here you go. Mr. Timoleon Cocksucker. Here you go. Mr. Costas Screkas. Abstentions. Mr. Costas Tsouulas. Abstentions. Mr. Yannis Antoniadis. Here you go. Mr Stefanos Gikas. Here you go. Mrs. Maria Antoniou. Here. Mr. Yannis Kefaliannis. Here you go. Mr. George Stylus. Here you go. Mrs. Sofia Vulture. Here. The required number of signatories has therefore been completed. There will be a roll-call vote. Otherwise, I would use my right as president. Therefore, after the presence of the fifteen Members has been established in accordance with Rule 72(3), a statement is made that a roll-call vote will be taken. We're telling you. We are therefore adjourning the meeting for ten (10 ́) minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. It will probably be repeated when the ladies and gentlemen are quiet, especially you who called for the roll-call vote. The roll-call vote, gentlemen, is a top process. So just be quiet and let's get started. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Democratisation of Administration - Combating Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoring injustices and other provisions". They are called on the list, as we have set up, the Secretaries of Parliament, Panagiota Dricellis by SYRIZA and Yiannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy, as provided for in Rule 72(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would ask one or one of the two Vice-Presidents to remain in the Chair. Mr. Kaklamanis, who will replace me soon. According to Article 72(6), the recipients of the bill in principle are ‘NEI’. Refusing the bill in principle means 'OH'. Those who refuse to vote shall declare ‘PARENT’ or ‘APPROVAL’. In accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau and fax numbers/telecopies can be sent to the Bureau at the beginning of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u307	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the Elementary School of Nitan Dimitrios Lakonia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u308	The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and take the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. They voted 254 MPs. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against the beginning of the bill, 'OH', 79 MPs voted. ‘PARON’ 18 Members voted, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u310	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction "Democracy of the Administration - Combat Written and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions" was accepted in the first place by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what you heard yesterday from the President, we should be interrupting half an hour. I propose and believe that I have a unanimous consent to take a three-minute break in order to record the third meeting and start under what procedure the President said before leaving the Chair, namely the rapporteurs and the special speakers, and continue with the list left this morning. The first two speakers are enrolled by those who want to speak on the articles, but after what is left this morning. Everyone has eight minutes of speaking time. Now, seeing and doing, I may ask for your unanimous consent at some point to reduce the time for more Members to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S1-commons.u311	With the consent of the House at 17.12' the meeting is closed for Tuesday, May 5, 2015, at 17.15', on the subject of the House's work: continuing the debate on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: "Democracy of Administration - Combat Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions", according to the agenda distributed.
