ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Members of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, are asked to read out the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u2	MEP: Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents the following reports: To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction concerning: The publication of the newspaper “The Journal of Authors” on 15-7-2015, on the extra burden on consumers of water supply at the Oreokastro of Thessaloniki by the Thessaloniki Water and sewerage Company (EEATH). To the Ministries of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, State against Corruption and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on: The post of the newspaper "Kontra" on 18-7-2015, which states that the legality of the conditions under which it came into early retirement for health reasons or current President of PASOK, Mr. Fofi Gennimata, is questioned. To the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Health, concerning: The request of the Asylum of Patras "Saint Euphoria", regarding its subjection to more favourable arrangements for carrying out its tax obligations, due to the importance of its work. To the Ministries of Economic and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning: The publication of the newspaper “AKROPOLI” on 29-7-2015, which highlights the need for corroboration or verification of the news about a certified tax evasion of a branded journalist on television. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on: Parliamentary Reports (No. Page 128: 1379-24-2015, 1378-24-2015, 1376-24-2015, 1407-24-2015 and 1432-24-7-2015), which a citizen had testified, but had not at the same time provided the data required by the Rules of Parliament. It shall request their re-examination by the relevant Ministry. The MP of SYRIZA Mr.Dimitrios Hillis reported to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, with which the Pan-Hellenic Association of Physiotherapists in a memorandum emphasises the inability to fulfil the obligations of its members to the Social Security Agency and the Social Security Foundation (OAE and IKA) due to the interruption in the payment of their contracted Physiotherapists by the EEA. SYRIZA MP Aphroditis Stavoulis reported to the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health and Finance, with which the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Parents and Children with Disabilities (POSKCAMEA) calls for the rescue of the qualified non-profit-making social care providers and the resolution of their vital issues. The KKE MPs Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Nikolaos Moraitis and Ioannis Giokas submitted a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, in which the municipal council of the Municipality of Patras condemned the document of the Decentralised Administration of the Peloponnese, Western Greece and Ionian, which annulled the political role of the municipal council and the mayor for its unanimous decision against the Golden Dawn. The KKE MPs, Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos and Nikolaos Moraitis submitted a petition to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the Municipal Authority of Patras seeks the secretion of the smooth financing of the work of the 16th Municipal School in Patras, as well as the safeguarding of the remaining funds from the NRP. SYRIZA MEP Michail Kritsotakis submits the following reports: To the Ministry of Health concerning: The Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association's request to prevent public health from being exploited by economic interests. To the Ministry of Finance concerning: The Resolution of the Association of Foreign Language Centers (PALSO) of Heraklion, which denounces VAT for 23% on the tuition fees of Foreign Language Centers and calls for the abolition of this measure. The Member of the New Republic, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, shall submit the following reports: To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning: The request of the Association of Thessaloniki Enterprises and Industry to extend the timetable for the implementation of investment projects under measure 123A of the Agricultural Development Programme of Greece 2007-2013 ‘ALEXANDROS BALTAZIS’. The request of the President of the Technical Chamber of Greece, Central and Western Thessaly, concerning the extension of the deadline for the successful participation of the energy inspectors in the examination, until 31 December 2015, provided for by the provisions of B.D. 100/2010, for the better service of the citizens. To the Ministry of Health concerning: The Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association's protest about the possible vote on the regulation to change the conditions of authorisation of pharmacies, which may cause the creation of a "cartel" and oligopolis in the drug field. MEP Dimitris Kammenos submitted a report to the Ministry of Finance, which calls for a review of the VAT rate in the books production services and highlights the negative effects on the book market by the recent legislation. The Member of the New Democracy Mr Anastasios (Tsos) of the Treasury shall submit the following reports: To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning: The request of secondary secondary education teachers regarding the establishment of organic secondary education posts and their proposals to optimise the functioning of their industry. To the Ministries of Economics and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning: The protest by the Association of Foreign Language Center Owners of the Prefecture of Evros to subject them to the provisions of the bill providing for a VAT rate of 23% in their activities. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou submitted a report to the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economics, with which the Voluntary Agency for Children "The Smiling of the Child" with a press release expresses its concern at the economic deadlock that the Agency is currently experiencing and calls for its financial support. Mr Georgios Amyras presented a petition to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, in which the representative of the Interim Committee of Electricity producers from the rural photovoltaics of Atolokarnania in a memorandum calls for a legislative change in the restrictive regulation of n. 4254/2014, which affects the free transfer to a natural or legal person of their photovoltaic station. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Dimas filed the following reports: To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning: The request by the Mayor of Nemea of the Municipality of Corinthia to cover damages from the periphery’s disease, which spread due to adverse weather conditions in the region and tends to take epidemic proportions to the vineyards of the Municipality of Nemea. The letter - request by the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Kiatos in Corinthia, on the treatment of the epidemic growth of locusts and the destruction of crops in the Municipality of Sikyonia. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Athanasios Paphilis, Diamantos Manolakos and Athanasios Vardalis submitted a report to the Ministries of Finance, Labour, Social Security and Social Support and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, in which the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Farm Producers' Associations of Farmers' Markets expresses its opposition to the package of the new memorandum measures to be applied to the rural population of our country. SYRIZA MEP Ms Catherine Papanatsiou submits the following reports: To the Ministry of Finance concerning: The request of the Volos and New Ionian Society of Magnesia for an extension of the percentage of doses for at least three months and without increases in the non-timely payment of the instalments for the duration of the capital controls. To the Ministries of Economics, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity on: The request from the Union of Hoteliers of Magnesia on the prolongation of repayment of June's insurance and tax obligations to the operators in the tourism sector. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning: The request of the Agricultural Cooperative of Pelion - Northern Sporades on the continuation of the area compensation for traditional olive groves to olive groves on the island of Trikeri and the extension of the measure of Connected Aid to all regions of Pelion. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Athanasios Vardalis, Eleni Gerasimidou, Diamanto Manolakou and George Lambroulis submitted a report to the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, which calls for fair taxation for Greek farmers and the non-implementation of the new Memorandum of Understanding, highlighting the possible consequences for their industry. SYRIZA MP Mr Konstantinos (Kostis) Dermitzakis reported to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the Municipal Council of the Lassithi Law expresses its disagreement on the study of the road of Ierapetra - Pahia Ammos, which is part of the Trans-European Network and calls for its non-implementation, as it does not serve any service in the area of Ierapetra. SYRIZA Member Alexandros Meikopoulou presents the following reports: To the Ministries of Economics and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning: A series of requests from the Association of Hoteliers of Magnesia, in order to overcome market failures due to bank holidays and to immediately settle the financial obligations of tourism business operators. To the Ministry of Health concerning: The request of the Association of Scientific Health Personnel of the National Health Network (NHS) of the 5th Health Region of Thessaly and Central Greece to speed up the integration procedures of the doctors of the NHS of the 5th Ministry of Health. The request of the Workers' Association of Volos General Hospital "ACHILOPOULOSIO" regarding the payment of employees of the hospital for nights and holidays due from the year 2014. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning: The request of the Agricultural Cooperative of Pelion - Northern Sporades on the continuation of the area compensation for traditional olive groves to olive groves in Trikeri Island and the extension of the measure of the Connected Aid to all regions of Pelion. The SYRIZA MPs Mr. Nektarios Santorinios, Ilias Kamaeros and Dimitrios Gatis have submitted a report to the Ministry of Health, with which the Medical Association of Rhodes presents a proposal - plan to upgrade the function and benefits of the primary care structures for the area of southern Rhodes. Mr. Kyriakos Charakides presented a report to the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Economics, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, with which the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Drama, highlights the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises and the need to take immediate protection measures for the operation and viability of their industry. The MP of SYRIZA Evangelos Diamantopoulos has submitted a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, with which the Agricultural Associations and the Agricultural Cooperatives of the Regional Unit of Kastoria applicants for the change in the regulation of Greek Agricultural Insurance (ELGA) on the effect of high temperatures on bean growers, in order for the affected producers to initiate the procedures for their compensation. Eleftherios Augenakis submitted articles on the newspapers "Free Press of Sunday", "First Issue" and on the Sunday newspaper "The Dawn" as a reference to the Prime Minister and the Ministry of National Defence, requesting answers on the issue presented by extensive reports for the Secretary of the Central Committee of SYRIZA and a member of the Negotiation Group Mr.A. Koronakis. SYRIZA MEP Mr Athanasios Scumas submits the following reports: To the Ministry of Health concerning: The document of the Governor of the Livade General Hospital, which highlights the need for financial support from the hospital and staffed by assistant doctors, as well as to cover the position of the licensed pharmacist for the proper and secure functioning of the Hospital. The press release of the Thebes Medical Association, which denounces the operating conditions at the General Hospital of Thebes and calls for its service for the safe operation of the newspapers, as well as dynamic interventions to prevent its upcoming degradation. PASOK MP Yiannis Koutsoukos filed a petition to the Ministries of Economic and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, with which the City Council of the Municipality of Piraeus, the Prefecture of Ilias, is required by a unanimous decision to grant and make use of the public property ABK 123 located in the coastal area of Arkodio of the Municipality of Piraeus. The Member of the New Democracy, Maria Antony, has submitted a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, by which the Agricultural Associations and Cooperatives of the Regional Unit of Kastoria applicants for the change in the regulation of Greek Agricultural Insurance (ELGA) on the effect of high temperatures on tobacco growers, in order for the affected producers to initiate the procedures for their compensation. Mr Spyridon Danellis reported to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, in which the Mayor of Viannos highlights the need to continue the work of the project "Manufacture of six (6) water tanks for fire protection in forests and forest areas district of Viannos, Heraklion Crete".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed reading the petitions from the Member of Parliament, Mr Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, whom we thank. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 21 August 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure): 1. The Question No 455/28-7-2015 by the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr.K. Economou, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the control of legality regarding the activities on the island of Boula Attica. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 451/27-7-2015 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou, to the Ministers of National Defence and Finance, on the transfer of the "Megas Alexandros" camp located in the Municipality of Ampelokipou - Menemou of the Prefecture of Thessaloniki, to the Public Property Certification Fund (TADE). 3. The question by No 445/24-7-2015 of Congressman II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the retrospective cross-checking of foreign emblems. 4. The question asked by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of State regarding the non-compliance of electoral law by private radio and television stations. 5. The Question No 328/9-6-2015 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, on the delay in the regulation on red loans to the former Agricultural Bank. 6. The question by No. 293/2-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 375/22-6-2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the publication on cooperation by Elena Panaritis with a well-known multinational company, while at the same time participating in the negotiating team of our country. 8. The question by number 431/17-7-2015 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance about VAT on the remote islands. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Finance about the restoration of public losses in cases of untimely delivery of works by contractors.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The fourth question will be discussed under number 444/24-7-2015, the first question from the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Finance, on the reopening of the banks of the country. The current question will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalots, who is present. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u5	Minister, my question is mainly about how there is a plan to restore citizens' confidence in the banks, which has been disturbed. Reopening has already begun and will be improved over time. But that is not the point. The point is that the citizen can regain confidence in his banks, how the citizens who have made their money either internally or abroad can return them to the banks, what will be the project that will somehow entice them to bring their money back. A simple thought would be to guarantee, for example, the European Central Bank, publicly and reliably, the deposits that will come back from abroad. This would bring a real one - if you would - revolutionary overthrow into what we say'restoration of citizens' confidence in the banks'. If the banking system doesn't work with confidence for a long time, it won't be easy for someone who wants to deposit his money today. It's not what TV says, 400 million euros. This is the movement now taking place because of the tourist season. We are talking about the billions, which will not come back without a sense of confidence in the banking system. And this must be done not over time and slowly, because it will be too much time. It must be done with some - if you want - decisions or moves made by the Government or by the European Central Bank. I would like, please, to have him in my reposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you for the question, Mr Colleague. I think it is not the time to discuss in depth why we have arrived at the capital controls and the responsibilities they have and the political and banking factors who have been talking about bank run, out of the euro, about 'if the SYRIZA government comes out, I will make my money out' or about foreign players who have been constantly talking about Grexit. We will have time to discuss this more calmly. Maybe it's not time. I'd like to start with two good news. The first good news, is that the kind of capital controls imposed, it wasn't the one that has the full range of capital controls. So the fact that there was e-banking, that someone could pay by credit card, that you could make some money out, that you could bring your money, stands out the Greek case from other cases. Why am I saying that? Because restoring confidence - which is what concerns you most - is becoming easier, because if we had all the others, that is, if there were no e-banking, if there were no credit cards, it would be harder to rehabilitate. The second good news is that the Eurogroup decision, with regard to the specific question you have asked, guarantees all the statements. If you look carefully at the decision of the Eurogroup last Friday, it says that "we guarantee all depositors and they are not in danger". It leaves a question for the confessors, which is another issue you raise, which is those people who invest in the banking system, not who testify to the banking system. However, I think it is a clear statement on this matter. And since we and the 'commitments' were also committed to the discussions that took place before the Eurogroup's decision and the conclusion of the agreement, that the recapitalisation of the banks would take place before 1 January 2016 - that is to say, the commitment of the Greek Government and the 'institutions' - that it will end, that is, before the bail in depositors is implemented, starting for more than 100,000 euros on 1 January 2016, I think that the world can also be able for the nature of the capital controls we have and for the recapitalisation that we think will have ended on 1 January 2016 to deal with the banking system with greater security. I think that now the Greek people either have 'under the mattress' money that they say or have money abroad can bring it back to Greece. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Only 15 seconds, Mr President. And as it somehow became a self-esteeming prophecy that bank runs in the previous period, now with everyone's participation and contribution, there can be self-esteemous prophecy to return money to the Greek banking system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kremastinos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u9	What you said, Mr Chakaloto, is right, but the Eurogroup, as you know, is in some way a political instrument. It is another decision by Eurogroup to be confirmed by the European Central Bank by one communication and another is to remain at Eurogroup level. So the new, but not so strong as to bring about what I asked you to do, that is the result. Because you referred to how the banking system was handled more generally and who is responsible, and if one made a statement and another did not make a statement, and who is to blame more and more, I think that all of this is detailed. The fact is, we all saw that billions of banks left at the time of the negotiation, this five-month period, and no one took any measure except that we were getting money from the ELA and covering the losses. That would clearly lead to a dead end. And the question of the simple man is this: After reaching this agreement that we have reached - the good, the bad, as you say it - what matters, it is why we did not end up a month before to avoid all these sufferings. What was the reason? The second issue is what Europeans say. If you watched their parliaments on television, you would have seen it. Yesterday, in the Dutch parliament, a motion of censure was made to the Prime Minister, because, he says, he lied, that the Dutch will not give any money to the Greeks and the Dutch will give them again. His answer was that 'yes, I did not lie, the situation was slowly improving, but in the last six months there has been chaos'. He used the word 'haos', chaos for our own economy. This was a position of Prime Minister to the opposition, which made a motion of censure. The same view - and you know that well - is taken by all Europeans. So mistakes have been made strategically, large, huge. But it is not now the right time and the right question to be assessed. But what I'm saying is the classic - and you yourself said - that we were in a high-hand negotiation, that is, we didn't have any money, we didn't ensure somehow that we had a financial cover for that time period. We had an obligation to be in the previous memorandum, but no one gave us money. How did we get in? You said it yourself and you were right. Also, the government's changing the finance minister during the five-month negotiation shows - the government itself recognises - that there is a serious mistake. For all this, therefore, it is not the right time to make an assessment today, but we must all understand this. Because there is an election debate, we must all be aware of the responsibility we have to face here at some point. Do not forget that this will be the fourth election campaign within the four-year period, which does not exist worldwide. We all know that every election campaign is a burden on the economy. Everyone knows that. In 2012 they even carried the euro into the pre-election period. So what happens now? How will this economic system be restored? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] There are responsibilities of the government. The government has responsibilities, because in 2012 it did not want to enter the coup d'état in May and we did the June elections. Then he did not enter the coup d'état of the three parties. Then again we have the question of the election result of the European elections. Then to save the country, we are not elected President of the Republic and we are going to elections. After these successive elections, did we save the country? I'm asking, did we save her? And the question is, now that there are new elections, will the country be saved? How will it be saved after we know what happened to the three previous elections? I repeat, this question is not addressed to you but to the Prime Minister. But since you represent the government, it is right to ask the question right now in the Chamber, so that we all know what will happen from this adventure of the new elections. Who guarantees that there will be no regime in June 2012 after the elections? Who knows how to predict the result? Therefore, my personal position, which I addressed in 2010 to the then Prime Minister, George Papandreou, was to make a government of national unity to avoid suffering. When I was talking to the budget at the time, they were all curious and said, "What's he saying? Is it possible with a hundred and sixty-eight, a hundred seventy-seven MPs and 44% the first party to go for a co-government?" Today there will be no a hundred and sixty Members of Parliament, and there will be 44%. Why will these elections improve the country's economic situation? This question must be answered by the government and by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u11	You did not ask a question, but nine, ten questions, and you understand that all this needs a lot of discussion. There is no doubt - and I think you will have heard it from me too - that this government has made mistakes and that anyone who negotiates hard would make mistakes. But I think that he had a determination and no matter what happens in the elections, that will have left it. Whatever happens in history in the next two years, there's a deposit. You will allow me to say that it has also helped European social democracy, that is, your world to wake up and understand that important things are playing here. I dare say on behalf of you that a part of social democracy has realised that here very important games are being played for the future of Europe and that if the Eurozone is to be saved it must change policy at various levels and so I think that SYRIZA has helped the general debate in Europe. Now, these elections, which I hear and you and I probably come, I think it's not the same as in 2012, because in 2012 there was no agreement. We went to the elections to see who will manage and who will negotiate an agreement. Now this deal exists. There's the route, the framework for how the banks are to be recapitalised. There is the context that will be done by the indirect method. There are the 10 plus 15, which are ready as a pillow or be used more directly to recapitalise the banks. There is the gradual restoration of capital controls, where now the world is less troublesome because it can accumulate the money. There are committees within each financial institution that solve problems as to who needs money and who we can help. There are new decisions on children studying abroad. So we're seeing a gradual restoration. We see that the ECB - which was the initial question in the second round - has taken the first steps and is serious about the restoration of water. We believe that the ECB always gets a signal from the Eurogroup. We have known from the first moment, from January, that in order for the ECB to change its attitude, it must make a political decision that there is an agreement, that Greece is on the way and that it will eventually come out on the market. I therefore think that under any government, after the next elections, if this government is stable and can face, as agreed, the recapitalisation of banks and the'red loans', the Greek people have no reason either to bring their money from abroad or not to put it into the banks. This whole political system may be united, because I see no reason, I see no incentive on either side or on the other, aimed at not having a stable financial system regardless of what other differences, social, political and environmental priorities are, and any other disagreements we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. The first under number 452/28-7-2015, an up-to-date first-cycle question by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Demetrios Army to the Minister of Finance, on arrangements to ensure the access of uninsured people to the public health system, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Also, the second question under number 442/22-7-2015 of the First Cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, on the repeal of Article 15 of Law4332/2015 on the selection of administrations of hospital units is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. We will now move to the third with number 448/27-7-2015 a top-level question for the first-round question from the MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Health on the problem at the "Karmandanio" Children's Hospital of Patras. The Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, will answer. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Madam President. "Karamandanio" is called the hospital by a great benefactor, Karamandanis, who did not look like today's people. He didn't want to be remembered about how many swimming pools or how many toilets he could have at home, like today's people. It wasn't that of the climax school. Karamandanio, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the years of its presence as a Children's Hospital throughout the region and not only in Patras has given sweet fruit. The entire western Greece and the Peloponnese embraced it. The branch club "Co-response" recently highlights those problems that we are all living for those who needed the care of our children. It is strange, indeed, because it has not yet been placed in command. Are you going to tell me: is that the only thing? No, but it's the paradox, Minister. Indeed, no one has understood why our government is doing us in too many organizations, from the Land register to the "Karmandanio" of Patras. Let's go to elections and still! Well, what was the reason the hospital had to stay headless? But that's not all. There are also shortages of infrastructure and staff in the institution, and therefore the problems that doctors, nurses and, above all, the small hospitals are facing, since, as we have said, they are a child hospital. It is therefore necessary to appoint the commander. Put that signature on. Don't wait the next day of the elections, which seems to be the burden to you again. But you know that there is a need to change the plan of the hospital organization. The administration of the hospital participates - because this was the desire of the heir - the Municipality of Patras for many years now. The aim is to operate the pupil intensive care facility, to refer to a category of specialist cases and laboratory tests - unfortunately - outside the institution, through the functioning of the pedophiliatric clinic and emergency management structures. Minister, we would like to hear today if you intend to take initiatives such as this to cover any shortages in the supply, logistics and related services of the “Karmandan” Patras Patras Paediatric Hospital. However, please now, very briefly, call on the scientific and other staff, the workers' association of this hospital, which is also the competent body, to present to you - although I imagine you already have an image of this hospital and of the bright results it has - a number of issues, which I think many of them can be solved immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u14	The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. My dear colleague, I think that you are right to highlight the problems of a public health system unit aimed at a special population in children. It is the only regional child hospital in our country, apart from the three children's hospitals in Attica and in this sense, it covers a wider area of western Greece and, as you rightly said, it has played an important role in the public child care of the region. This structure, like all the rest of the National Health System, is currently facing serious, accumulated and time-consuming problems. Especially the part of the neonatal intensive care facility has been discussed within the Ministry. There is an up-to-date recommendation from the managers of the paediatric clinics and the intensive hospitals of the other hospitals, Rios and Agios Andreas, documenting the need not to have an intensive hospitalization facility in a hospital that does not have a maternity hospital and that what this hospital can cover at this stage is the premature unit, which operates with five beds developed if I am not mistaken. This is a debate that has taken place within the OSH, and the OSH seems to agree with this recommendation. We believe that the two existing units are sufficient to meet the needs of the wider region as a whole. The hospital needs support in some surgical specialties involving children, orthopaedics, orchids, surgery, general surgery, etc. There is an attempt to strengthen it with subsidiary staff. They have been requested by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we will now be covering gaps with subsidiary doctors. We are always in contact with the relevant Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in which you know very well that a doctor of the National Health System, who has fought for many years for the upgrading of the NHS in the region, Mr Giannopoulos, who is trying with dialogue and in consultation with the workers' unions and doctors' associations to give solutions to the explosive problems that exist, making the best use of human resources and infrastructures in public structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Nicolopoulos, here, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u17	Madam President, I was unfortunate because Mr Chakalotos left. He'd like to tell him a politician who isn't from a fireplace, and he's too tense, what he lived and lives with his four kids when he needs to go to the public hospital. A little while ago, a conversation had taken place with Mr Chakaloto, whom I do not know if he ever needed - never to have the need - or ever had to go to a public hospital, because I am not the son or the nephew of Tsakalotus. I would therefore like to say to the Minister, on this occasion, that he has probably given food for discussion in the next few days. Let us monitor the public dialogue that will be presented by the media at this time. Minister, you have not been well informed, and I regret that information is already charged to Mr Giannopoulos, where public debate will continue down there. So there is no need for an Intensive Nursing Unit, when it is a request of many years and when a lot of work has been done to date. However, I am pleased that the Minister has really referred to the efforts of medical staff and workers. Indeed, that is the case, Minister. We're very proud. It is worth the public praise to these people who are not paid for even their newspapers. The payment of the unpaid newspapers or even overtime or workers' days, if you wish, seems to be a luxury request. However, it is as the Minister said. It's a jewel and we're proud of public health and those simple, humble people, the people to whom Mr. Tsakalotos referred the other day. There is a hospital that has nothing to be jealous of, but despite the thousands of shortcomings. Minister, staff issues have left them for my second-guess, not because they were not worth stressing in the protology, but because nobody thinks here that we are coming to care for the ears, or to talk about all those who I have told you, the payment of the days-to-day newspapers, the service of nursing, administrative and technical staff, the settlement of overtime, or the settlement of working hours and even nights. The most serious issue to be settled is this more comprehensive staffing, as well as upgrading existing logistics, as regards the benefits of invasive therapeutic care in the pediatric sector, which is already suffocating in terms of numerous requests from guardian children for problems. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I should like to end by telling you that we have many dramatic incidents. They come to the prosecutor for such incidents parents - I'm a parent of an autistic child - and they say there's no unit, there's nothing. You see children in public clinics like this, like here in Daphne, being tied literally. We are talking about these children who primarily want to move because they have a mobility. We don't have, he says, personal. We're going to tie them to the tree, Minister? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, thank you very much. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that, after the resignation of the commander - from months - of Mr Stakias, Mrs Catopoulou, who has been a commander - is indeed exaggerating myself - and I have referred to the void, I would like to say that, together with all the workers, they have been running - I want to believe that, at least, this whole region is saying - on a level that envys the provision of services. And that is why it would be my omission not to mention the effort she is making, I was a deputy commander. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u19	My colleague, I'm trying to be as honest as possible. We are not in a phase of development of the public health system. What we are struggling for six to seven months now is, in cooperation with human resources, which most contributes with honesty, with work and exaggerates itself to keep the public health system up, to survive public structures. Needs are huge. The demand for services by citizens has increased greatly, over 30%, in a period of 30% of staff and 40% -50% of the public hospital budget has been reduced. This, as you can see, leads to operating black out conditions. We've avoided it so far. There are many problems, multiples throughout Greece, which we are trying in a fire-fighting way and from the guilty parties to deal with. The public of administrations, or where there is this particular culture of several officials who have remained, and who have not been able in this six-month period to move towards a change of administration, is making problems worse. However, I really believe that in the next period, within the limited framework set by the new agreement and the new financial framework of the country, we have room for targeted interventions, i.e. effectively interfering with the waste chambers, the challenge of demand and corruption that exist in the health system and making more rational use of its human potential to achieve the best results. I believe that public care is a privileged area, that there should be a social counterweight to the burden that will continue for the major categories of citizens in our country because of the new measures, that is to say, it should be a social redistribution area. That's the government's concern. Efforts are being made and aided with human potential and an increase in hospital spending, which was too low and caused many problems in supplies of materials, medicines, etc. the previous period. I therefore believe that, with a good sense of cooperation between his staff - which is a given one - and a better spirit on the part of the administrations, hospitals and the Ministry of Justice and, of course, to have the best possible effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The first, with number 456/28-7-2015, topical question by MP 2, Potamios Athens (Charis) Theocharis to the Ministers for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the digital services of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, is not discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The second question, under number 439/21-7-2015, of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, New Democracy, Marios Salma, to the Minister of Health, concerning the operation of the MRI of the Agrinio Hospital, is not being discussed due to an impediment by the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u21	Is Mr. Salmas incapacitating?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Salmas, yes. I said 'due to the intervention of the honourable Member'. The third, with number 404/30-6-2015, is a topical question of the new Republic MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the extension of natural gas networks and pipelines in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace. The fourth question under number 366/18-6-2015 of the second question by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, concerning the functioning of the Coordinating Centre of the National Transplant Organisation (EMM), is not being discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The fifth under number 398/30-6-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the recruitment of necessary personnel to PPC SA, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. We will now move to the sixth with number 430/16-7-2015 a topical question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Health on the problems at the Aliveni Health Centre. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u23	Madam President, thank you very much. Minister, it is Evia that, unfortunately, has a head office between the prefectures with the highest unemployment, with the lowest standard of living, from the policies of all previous years and, unfortunately, has the misfortunes of having the worst road network in all of Greece. I have pointed this out at least three times in time questions. Why am I telling you this? The Oliver Health Centre, to which I am referring today, is not any centre. It is the centre, which manages two hundred thousand cases a year and tries to cover a major hundred kilometres of ugly, difficult, bispeco-line road network. People die as they call for help and cannot come back for help, because there is only one driver right now in action and the other is on sick leave. The Health Centre itself has suffered a 50% degression in active jobs and a loss of equipment. In addition, the 5th Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the context of the n. 4238/2014, unfortunately it took a decision to concentrate on the structures of the Aliveri Health Centre and the structures of the PES and the structures of the Aliveri PES. And even though he does, he gets the equipment of the PES and the PES and he doesn't send it to the Alive Health Center at least to strengthen it in that sense. He sends it, on the contrary, three hundred miles away to Larissa! What is the point, Minister, when it is a poor area, which is trying to cover from Amarynthos, Aliveri, Dystos, Austoari, Streas on a very difficult road, extremely poor population, which is unable to go to private hospitals and is trying to find a solution to this health centre, which needs to be strengthened immediately? It's a matter of public health and safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u25	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. Primary care is an area that in recent years has been aggravated and has deteriorated even further than the overall public health system. The structure you refer to in your question is a very important primary care structure in the Evia region and I understand that it meets the needs of a wider area and because of the specificities of transport and geomorphological - of the region. The picture I have about the health centre, the service and the discussions I have had is that at this stage it is sufficient, at least in medical capacity. In recent years there has been an ever-growing process of removal of human resources. A total of fourteen thousand nurses, paramedics and other personnel have left the health system, and more than three thousand doctors. Along with the shortcomings and departures that exist in primary care, cumulatively we have a gap in human resources in the health system over twenty-two thousand workers. You realize that this gap cannot be raised and treated quickly. There is a project that we have developed, as a matter of urgency, the health systems. Unfortunately, the procedures have so far been too long and we have not been able to move quickly to fill these gaps. There are, however, standing invitations to tender and permanent staff and ancillary staff, but also with five months of public work available to place three thousand people in September. The general doctors present at the Aliveni Health Centre are sufficient. They are reinforced with two additionals, which are currently being placed, they have become their choice. They're two general doctors who occupy a regional office position. On 30 July they signed their appointment and have a margin still to take their place. I believe that by the end of the month they will have been placed and strengthened the medical capacity of the health centre. We know she serves pediatrician, dentist, and there are labs with a doctor and microbiology and radiology. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The intervention made in the remaining two primary care structures, the Fisheries PEDY and the PECA, was an intervention in rationalisation and better use of human resources. The direction we have given to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to avoid the rental of buildings in particular. You know that PEKA, this structure, had a rent of 6,000 per month, which, as far as I'm aware, served by PPC's employees and pensioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u26	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u27	So the direction was to merge with the Alive PES. And I think that already a cardiologist who was in PEKA has moved and provides services there. There will be two primary care structures, therefore, the Aliveni Health Centre and the Aliveri PES. Our effort will be to gradually strengthen the PES, where they have a minimal staffing and, above all, to strengthen their laboratories, because it is important today to reverse the flow of public resources directed to the private sector, to redirect part of them into public structures and not to charge the public with a percentage of the work done by the laboratory. There is therefore an attempt to rationalise and improve the use of the region's human resources and infrastructure. For the equipment you mentioned, the assurance I have from the HR is that the equipment necessary for the Alive Health Centre has been transported there and surplus equipment that you did not need in the area has been distributed to other health centres in the wider area of the 5th HR. In other words, there is no picture, as you described it, of the transfer of necessary equipment to other areas. I think the crucial issue is - and this is a bet for the next political period to come - to proceed with a serious plan to reorganise primary care. This is the great deficit in the health system today. We've been edited - you know this, it's published - we're in a phase that we're trying to see in the new data a gradual or pilot run of it in some parts of the country. This will really be an important part of a model hospital that has existed so far in Greece. This will make the health system more accessible and more accessible to the citizen and on a long-term basis and less costly. I therefore believe that there we should concentrate our efforts on how to reorganise primary care, with emphasis on family doctors, on the health unit that has cross-sectoral, say, composition and intervention in the community, with neighbourhood doctors, with a holistic approach and a universal approach to the health problems of the patient. I think this is another model in which we need to move forward and which in most developed countries in Europe is being successfully implemented. Our effort will be in this direction and, of course, in this context we are sure to ensure that today's primary care structures are as strong as possible and to be operational because the world needs it very much the weak, the poor world, because there are studies at this time from the National School of Public Administration...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u29	I'm done. There are studies from the National School of Public Health that substantiate that the economic and social crisis caused a health crisis, which particularly hit the weak. Mr Kyriopoulos is talking about the classicity of the health crisis right now in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u30	Mr Mavragani, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u31	I'll start with the last one. Indeed, this crisis has hit, first and foremost, the low and medium-sized strata. However, from your reply, Minister, while I am aware of your sensitivity, I did not see any phrase in which to focus on the EAW, namely the service of the courses. A year the calls are over a thousand, i.e. the calls that are assessed for a stay and the service is finally up to seven hundred. What about the remaining three hundred? To God's mercy? It is obvious that this was not created now. It has been created in previous years, but we need to see it as a priority. I repeat that Evia is a particularly bad road case. People can't communicate. It's a hard road network. They cannot easily communicate with the other parts and much more if they are to reach the Aliveni Health Center, even more difficult to reach the Hospital of Chalkida. So it is a direct priority for us to ensure at least two drivers in any way, even with a fixed-term temporary contract, so that they can serve 24 hours the very high demand for 24 hours. Take into account that in the areas I told you before, there are Amarynthos and Styra which are classical tourist areas which, in the three months of summer, double or even triple the population, thus the needs for service. Therefore, you must give immediate priority to drivers who must move in this direction, even with fixed-term temporary contracts. Secondly, you said about the equipment, the RU confirmed you, etc. First of all, on the initiative of your Ministry, you have actually paid overtime for too long in the past years to hospital doctors. I'm reporting this because the D.O.D. didn't do a good job and intervened your ministry to get people paid after bringing the matter to you. So the DEO is not, because it says so. It has to be judged. I am telling you, therefore, that my personal information is that my personal information is leaving equipment absolutely necessary and that, while you are saying that, on the one hand, we need to strengthen the ETA with equipment to carry out laboratory tests there and not to channel public money to private directions, on the other hand, they take the equipment and take it to Larissa. Is that or isn't that contradictory? There's no surplus equipment. Even if something can be a reserve, it has to be a reserve because they spoil machines and sometimes not randomly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u32	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u33	Mostly for the EAW, I will answer that you are right that I did not refer to my first speech. There is a problem with ambulance drivers in all health centres in the country at the moment. We are also trying to think about how we can deal with this in the long term. The ideal thing would be for this sector to be integrated with the EAEC and for there to be a single management of the ambulances throughout the country. This, with its current human resources composition and health centres, is not possible, because the coverage of the EMCDDA's ambulances requires additional staff. For the shifts of the EMCDDA ambulances, two staff are needed, and we know very well that there is usually the driver when needed, and the doctor. The assurance we have from the administration of the EKAB is that the needs of the Aliveri Health Centre, the shifts on which there is no driver are covered by the EKAB Chalkida and Kymi sectors. At this time, the intake of an eighty-six permanent rescuers in the EKRD is being completed by a competition that has been pending for too many years. The assurance from the President of the EMCDDA is that once the distribution of this human resources has been completed, an area of the EMCDDA will be developed in Aliveri. I think that this is the solution to the constant problem of the lengths.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u34	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u35	Of course, the crucial issue is the structures of primary care and hospital structures to have the necessary staffing and equipment to make up a substantial filter and the need to stay down continuously and to cover only specific cases, which need secondary and higher hospitals. There will be an effort in this direction. As far as your report on equipment is concerned, I'll check this personally. I will see what equipment has been redistributed and I will make a consultation with the Fifth Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deal with this definitively. The DPOs have to tell you that they did not have the previous administrative experience to support the payment of on-calls from health centers, which from 1-1-2015 were transferred to the DPOs. The staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were not trained. That is why there was this difficulty, the delay in the orders. It was tragic. The money was made available by the Ministry in May on the accounts of the Ministry and the doctors remained unpaid. This has largely been addressed. We have already made payments for the second quarter of 2015 to the majority of the country's hospitals and health centres. The effort we are making is to normalise as much as possible the flow of payments so that the little human potential of the health system today, which really offers excellent services and under adverse conditions, feels that the state is really okay to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I have a statement to this House from Mr Theocharis Theocharis. "To the honorable President of Parliament. I hereby inform you that on 20 and 21 August 2015 I will need to evacuate abroad for personal reasons and request permission for my justified absence from Parliament. With appreciation, Theocharis Theocharis, MP from the Potami”. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u37	The House approved the requested permission. The seventh question under number 409/6-7-2015 is the second question of the Parliamentary Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health concerning the Contribution Agreement of EUR 9,890,500, which consists of 10 pillars and concerns the preparation of studies on the implementation of the "Reform Support Programme for the Health sector" and is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister, Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. Series is the first with number 3914-29-6-2015 question of the fourth Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Health, on the procedure for the replacement of the vacancy of a physician at the Children's Hospital of "AGLAY KYRIKOU". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am glad that you are here today and not Mr Kurublis, in the sense, not that there is a problem in our relations - on the contrary, he is a very good friend of mine - but you are a doctor. Because some things cannot be understood by non-medical ministers at the Ministry of Health. The Children's Radiotherapy Department is not a common radiation therapeutic department. You sent me two months later an answer that your services prepared for you, but which is already outdated as you know, with a check I did yesterday in the hospital. I therefore believe that we both have to resolve the problem today and resolve it. A radiotherapy department for children at the elementary scientific staff you are answering - and I agree with that, and I do not invoke it at all, just to go ahead with it - must have director, curator A and two curators B. First, the Director and curator A must have specialize in the radiation treatment of children who will train curators B. At the moment, you know that by leaving Mrs Cologne, the principal's position was actually abrogated. Second, the judge who existed and moved the department, for its own reasons, resigned and went to the private sector. And you are now trying to cover this section - I recognise the efforts - with subsidiary doctors. One, the relatively experienced, who is from CEDEFOP, you know that at the end of September, his term ends, and there is a question of his replacement, and the other girl from her rural hospital went there. What would he know about radiation? And I tell you these things now that half the active radiation therapists have passed through my hands, because I have this specialty and had gone through the department that I ran and trained them. So the first thing we have to do is say the rest in dentistry - go and change the body of the hospital. Now, leaving here to go to the ministry and ask for the file. If you don't, no one will. It will not be a different solution, and it is certainly not a solution to the private centres for children to go, not because it does not want the existing staff to serve, but because it cannot and cannot. I would like to hear your answer in principle and say a few things in dentistry. I have an extra proposal for this radiation therapeutic section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u40	Dear colleague, thank you for the question. I fully understand your sensitivity, both because of medical status and because of specialty. There was a crisis in this section, which was not - let us say - predictable, because the departure of the curator was somewhat surprising, because for its own reasons it chose to leave the health system. It is a problem at this time, namely that some experienced doctors with working conditions, remuneration and the adverse conditions that exist today in public care choose to leave. And there is a need for serious intervention, in my view, which possibly requires cross-party consensus on how to create conditions for reversal of this climate and, in particular, the migration of young doctors abroad. This is another debate. So there was a crisis. Even the function of the department that should have qualified doctors was jeopardized. Such a development - let's say - has been avoided. There was fortunately a crisis in progress for a curator B, a special radiotherapist oncologist, which had been pending an old crisis. We made an effort to speed it up, and we did it. He was appointed at this time of - let's say - liquidity, he was appointed in good time a few days ago and has taken office. She is a specialist radiation therapist, who has already performed four subsidiary terms, not, of course, in a Children’s Radiotherapist, but she is clearly a doctor with clinical experience in the public health system. So I think that very quickly it will be able to gain skill so that the treatment of children with oncological problems is what it is necessary and that both parents and the Flame Association and the whole society have shown a huge sensitivity at this time. It is a section of special sensitivity and, of course, it is also a jewellery for our country's public health system, it is the only center that exists today in the ESS for children. That is why we have also said from the outset that it was a matter of honour to keep this part to the fingernails and teeth standing up and to ensure that it functions smoothly. How is this guaranteed? So, at the moment, we have a permanent curator, and we have two auxiliary doctors. The term of office of an adjudicator ends next year in May, we have plenty of time. For the second AS which expires the contract in September, the continuation of the contract with the CEDEFOP has been ensured. We'll also ask for a third assistant doctor's post, and we'll also call a curator's post A or B permanent for the department. The ideal composition is the one you say: Director, curator A and two B. There will be intervention to reform the agency. We've been proposed by the U.S.A.A.A., following a report from the hospital that provides outside doctors two other positions of radiological nature and two other positions of radio technology. However, it is impressive, ladies and gentlemen, that so far there have been two organic positions in this section and there has never been a question of reforming the Agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u41	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u42	We realise that there was a deficit and I think we can deal with it. I've already dealt with it. I have requested the information and the Ministry's Health Units Development Directorate will proceed as quickly as possible and in consultation with the Ministry. In fact, we believe that the public health system has the need for such specialised sections and, above all, these children and their parents have the need to feel safe in the public health system and to know that the care provided will continue unforeseenly and that their children will be treated by doctors with experience and knowledge. For the first time, the test of proven clinical experience, rather, eighteen months, will be set for the positions of doctors. So far, the ones that had been announced had not been declared in this criterion, which is why we had this difficulty. In any case, you know very well that qualified doctors in this part are few in our country. We will therefore make an effort for doctors too to be able to claim a permanent position and to establish the functioning of this section without problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Kaklamani, you have three minutes for your dentistry, as you know very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u44	Minister, listen. Up to some point, this department was working. I know very well, not because of my specialty, because I'm the one who made Mrs. Synodinos's position, and I signed the machine from the 3rd Community Support Framework. The Association, the "Langer", an excellent union - which, if not there, I do not know how this department would work - did at its own expense a truly standard radiation therapeutic center. And it's a sin, not risking closing, as you said, but still falling down. It worked after Mrs Cologne left, but you know how. It was made up by the "light" of Mrs. Synodinos and her going to work in "AGLAYA KYRIAKOU". We may have different opinions - and we have - but you also know very well that I am a fanatical addict of the National Health System and I consider it a shame, a private charity to pay a doctor to work in the public hospital. However, Mrs Constantinople has also left, she has not endured and has gone to the private sector. Watch what I'll tell you. What you said is that it won't close. However, it is not to function as it must and above all to develop further. So I want you to promise me that by going down, you will get the file and you will have the full support - not only mine, but also the whole House - to change the body yesterday. There are - I know, because they went through my hands, as I say - at least two radiation therapists. One is with an experience of twenty-six years, who were asked the day before, to go to the "PIDON" to tell her to run for the post of curator II. I ask you, are you a doctor of the ESS, would you? With twenty-six years of experience with radiotherapy and ten years of experience in children, can she nomination for curator's second place? Not even I. Because you're going to the 2nd to be proclaimed. Because I could then, at some point, reach as director and as a formal topic not to exist. You know, the curator can't sign a specific paper that has to be signed by a director only. At the same time, note what I will say to you: Because on average, children who do radiotherapy there are 15 to 20, with a proper staffing along with the radiation physics you tell me and the operators, the treatments come out of the breakfast hours and then there may be an afternoon hours at the hospital itself for older children from 15 to twenty years with lymphomas, which, as you know, have waiting time to start radiotherapies in public hospitals from two to three and a half months. So, he could have collected the hospital's money - from the EEAS, I mean, not from the patients and the families - and entered a special account. Because this machine has been renewed and it is excellent, but after two or three years we will have to change it, we will have to get more modern. From him, then, the special account, could change the machine. See the fact that it's a sin, even if it's done with this sloppy staffing down a department, which does not exist second in all of Greece. So you need to get that thing on your back. I don't know how long this government will be, but whatever the current and tomorrow's etc., it's a matter in which I think everyone unanimously and I, i.e. whatever back you want me to put you there, to put you down. I want you to tell me why I didn't know, I have to say. And badly I didn't know. I should have known. I heard yesterday reporting on a TV channel, namely the MEGA, for 23% VAT, not on public hospitals to pay for the patient, but, as you know, on the patient's involvement, when the carcinogen goes to a private radiotherapy centre where, apart from the percentage of participation - that we know, it is the result of the previous memorandum - it is 23% VAT. I have to say I didn't know. I don't know if it's just like that. But if it is so, too, it is a matter of negotiation with a unanimous majority, I suppose, of support, because on average for a complete treatment, in a cancer instrument, participation in a private centre is an extra wage and if a 23% of people enter it too, you realize that, where cancer patients will find it. I heard about it the other day. I keep, I tell you, a reservation, because I don't know. I saw and heard the report. Look at it and whether we should also do a collective effort on this. But please, coming back, take the hospital body. If you don't fix it, that way if you don't start it, what else will you do? All right, he's gonna falsify, they're gonna be phony serviced, but it's not the solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u46	We'll deal with the organization's issue. You bet. As I said before, it is also a matter of fundamental credibility toward a world which has a very great need to feel safe in a difficult time from a serious illness. But at the same time we must be aware of the fact that we hear that changing the organisation and providing for additional posts does not automatically mean covering them. And the proclamation of permanent doctors' posts for the ESS, you know very well that it's time, that it's a process that can last for one and a half and two years to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u47	So we can make it up to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u48	We can move on and, in fact, we also have asked the Panhellenic Medical Association and the Federation of Hospital Medicines on how to speed up the process and shorten it to the shortest possible time. So that's the one. The second concerns the development logic you have said. In other words, a section that is working better, becoming more productive, more efficient - in the good sense - could be able to increase the ability of the public health system to cover incidents and not to have forced cooperation and refuge in the private sector. And the third thing you said, and it's important, I admit I don't know it in his detail. The picture I have is that the VAT on radiopharmaceuticals has increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u49	Probably.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u50	This is about radiopharmaceuticals, which we know have a special status.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u51	And he was transferred to the treatment cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u52	It's probably about this thing. We need to see this in cooperation with the financial staff. In my view, the issue of radiopharmaceuticals is an area in which there has so far been no serious State interference. I think it is a budget that is outside of every procedure, such as the corresponding budgets for medicines, whether from abroad or from hospitals, closed budgets, etc. We need to see that. There are also good labellings made by the EEAS, and I think we need to look again at the negotiations with the companies that supply radiopharmaceuticals and the whole radiopharmaceutical management system, so that we can reduce waste and if we are sure that patients can be served without any additional burden. Because we know well that especially the cost of such proven treatments and even for a long time, it is now unbearable in the situation where many pieces of Greek society have been found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second question by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health regarding the immediate withdrawal of IKA circular No 37/2011 for the purchase of orthopaedic, orthopaedic and artificial members who, through great participations, excludes people with disabilities from equal and decent living, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. The question by No 3714/22/2015 by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the amendment of the Common Ministerial Decision on the tender for the supply of food for the most deprived persons in order to include Greek products instead of the unambiguous quality imported, is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-20-S1-commons.u54	With the agreement of the House at 11.20 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow 21 August 2015 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: topical and urgent questions.
