ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House that the Ministers for Finance, Economy, Development and Tourism, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health and the Deputy Minister of Finance have tabled a draft law: 'Urgent arrangements for the implementation of the budgetary and structural reforms agreement'. This draft law has been characterised by the government as urgent. You also know that from the Conference of Presidents. It shall be referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003: "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 17-11-2015, a criminal case for the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr Nikolao Phile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u2	What is it, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u3	Circuit?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u4	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u5	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u6	You say the name, but you don't say the deed. That's not right. Anyone can do that. Sex lawsuits are being filed for flea fuck.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u7	Yeah, but I don't know anything officially, anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for family reasons for 18 November to 25 November, in accordance with Rule 76(3) and (4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u8	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that by letter from the President of Parliament on 17 November 2015, the re-recommendation of the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on German debts was proposed in accordance with Rule 44(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 17 November 2015 unanimously endorsed the proposal. For the sake of effective functioning of the Committee, it is proposed that it be composed of twenty-two members in proportion to the power of the parties. A deadline for the submission of the Commission report by 31 March 2016 is also proposed. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u9	Therefore, Parliament unanimously accepts the proposal and decides to re-establish the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee for the Claim of German debts in accordance with Rule 44(1) of the Rules of Procedure and with a deadline for submitting the Committee's report by 31 March 2016. This proposal has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the agenda for LEGAL WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: (a) ‘Preparation of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, following the Correction Protocol thereto’; (b) ‘Preparation of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, and the Practical Correction thereof’, and (c) 'Preparation of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, following the Correction Protocol annexed thereto'. The above agreements were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to complicate the debate on all three agreements because of their similar content, because of their relevance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u11	All right, you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u13	Yes, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, today's debate is taking place on the basis of Rule 108, but there is paragraph 5, which does not exclude the possibility of rapporteurs speaking. On the basis of this paragraph, I would like to speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u15	All right, you got him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u16	Not now, in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that we are presenting our meeting with the Ambassador of Ukraine, Mr Vladimir Sokurov, the Ambassador of Moldova, Mr Valentine Kukak and the Ambassador of Georgia, Mr Josef Nanovavili. The JRC appoints as a special speaker for today's sitting, Mr Stavros Tassos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I should like to begin by welcoming the honourable Members and say that the People's Association - Golden Dawn - takes the view that Greece, as a country in Europe, wants to have good relations with all European countries, including Christian Georgia and Moldova and Ukraine, but as we mentioned in the committee, the last thing that would interest the Greek people, but also our movement, the nationalist movement, is the European Union's Nuclear Energy Agency - including our country - to be associated with these countries. For reasons not only political, but also ideological reasons, this is the last thing that would be of interest to us, because the Golden Dawn as a movement of nationalist promotes sustainability and respect for the environment and real ecology as one of its ideological priorities. In any case, as far as the European Union is concerned, like all things and the development of things since the beginning of the 1980s, the European Union is indeed the misery of the Greek people and not only the European Union, but also the so-called euro area. The euro was introduced as a currency, abolishing it for hundreds of years our national currency, the drachma of the undocumented Prime Minister of the PASOK Government, Mr Simitis. This is what the introduction of the euro, which we have all experienced at the beginning of 2001, together with the great fascism contributed to Greece by Greece's admission to the European Union, in cooperation with the two major parties then, the great fascist of the New Democracy and PASOK, fully confirms the words and sayings of the former Minister Theodoros Pagalou, who had said "we have eaten them together". Pangalos had then said "we had eaten together", meaning PASOK and New Democracy. He didn't mean "we eat together" with the Greek people. The Greek people are now in a bad position, because of the memorials and the right and the left, which all together, all the parties of the constitutional arch, you voted in this Chamber and it has the last responsibility for the current situation. Yesterday was one day for your parties, the parties of the constitutional arch, emblematic. It was November 17, or as you say, November 17, and I mean the anniversary of November 17, 1973, with the events of the Polytechnic. According to one coincidence, this 17 November is also homogeneous with the terrorist, criminal organisation of 17 November, which is a point of reference from many left-wing MEPs, as is already revealed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u21	What does it say, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u22	So you're the ones who identify both of the things you mentioned?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u23	No, I'm saying it's a homotilla.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u24	It was unacceptable, it should not be reproduced! You shouldn't have accepted it, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u25	So I say that in this Chamber, after a strange coincidence one day after 17 November, after yesterday's 18th day, on 18 November, after a few hours at noon, when the Committees on Trade, Economic and Social Affairs meet at a joint meeting, there will be a great crime against the Greek people. It will be introduced for discussion as an urgent bill that leaves the dwellings, the first residence of the Greeks north to the foreign loan sharks. In this crime, Golden Dawn prioritises today and not in the European Union's toys with nuclear energy. We say, then, that this crime is a crime of national, social, folk crime, a crime against the people. It has an absolute relevance to Article 120 of our Constitution and we will fully agree with...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u26	Look, you will have the opportunity to place yourself in the debate that will take place both in the Commission and in the plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u27	You'll give me a minute. I'll be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u28	Well, I want to tell you something. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u29	Don't interrupt me. You usually don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u30	Listen to me! You'll be done. But listen to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u31	Let me listen to you, Mr President. But please give me the time, because you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u32	Yeah. I say this, but listen to what I am about to say: Is the reverence that you gave to the anniversary of November 17...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u33	Now did you get it, like, two minutes later?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u34	I told you, I asked you back then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u35	So I told you that I am not combining 17 November and answering you. Now you remember doing your part?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u36	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u37	We know you, Mr. Barrett.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u38	Go ahead. What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u39	We know you want to do your part right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u40	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u41	I say, then, that this crime you are committing today - right and left - will not allow it as Golden Dawn. You'll find us in front of you! As you found us at the peace courts, you were ready to take home, so you will find us in front of you, when you have the judges and the MATS la Spain, to get the houses of the Greek people. We fully agree with your own executive, Mr. Philly's brother, who said that we invite the people to a popular uproar. Yes, the people must not sit with their hands crossed! The houses of the Greeks belong to the Greeks, just like Greece belongs to the Greeks!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Our criterion to make our political choices is the class criterion, and that is what we decide on. Does the policies implemented, in other words, serve the interests of workers and peoples or policies implemented serve the interests of capital and imperialist associations? In this case it is clear that the link between these three countries and the European Union, which is an association of imperialist countries, is an imperialist union which does not serve the interests of workers, entails pensions and hunger wages in the name of the competitiveness of businesses and also the basis for participation in the designs and actions of the imperialists in our region. It is therefore clear that we, as for the Greek people and other peoples,, by applying this criterion, are negative in linking these countries to the European Union. In particular, for Ukraine, I would like to mention two additional elements which show exactly how this link is meant, namely, in the context of the European Union, which actually has the anti-communist ideology, allowing and facilitating the legalisation of the fascists and partners of the Nazis and makes the Communist Party of Ukraine illegal. I was there a few days ago precisely for that reason, because there is indeed an attempt that has been started a long time ago. First of all, the communist ideology has been blocked and now they are heading towards a total ban on the existence of the Communist Party of Ukraine. In the context of this anti-communist and nationalist hysteria that has caused and civil war in the region, by a government of course established by imperialists with the support of both extremes, fascists, a government that has placed three partners on the list of personae non gratae, who have taken as observers in the elections in the eastern provinces, Sotiris Zarianopoulos, MEP, George Lambroulis, who sits next to me, MP of the KKE and Vice-President of Parliament and George Manganas, on the grounds that they are terrorists and that they are suffering terrorism in Ukraine. We denounce both these actions and the attempt to ban the Communist Party and the fact that three of our partners have been termed 'terrorists' and 'personae non gratae'. That is why we are voting against the association agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Kumoucascus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I welcome the honourable Ambassadors of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. As a new Republic, we have consistently supported these three association agreements. We did so both in the European Parliament and in the committee responsible, and now in plenary. It was not all the political forces themselves. For example, SYRIZA in the European Parliament voted against these agreements. There is, therefore, a ruthless political position. Furthermore, we welcome the position of the House in favour of these three agreements. The European Union's neighbourhood policy is a positive policy, a positive dimension to the European Union's foreign policy. But the European Union's foreign policy also has great weaknesses, Mr President, and often ineffective. This appeared, both in dealing with the refugee with the very slow reflexes of the European Union and Syria. And because the European Union's foreign policy issues, especially at the moment, are very important, I can only make a reference to the ongoing Prime Minister's trip to Turkey, which is mainly about the big and critical European issue, in substance, of the refugee issue. We hope, of course, that this journey will be a success, because above all, the country's interests are invaded. However, in order to be successful, certain objectives must be achieved. These objectives, especially for the refugee problem, are as follows: Firstly, let the Prime Minister ensure that refugee centres are held on Turkish territory, because that is the only way to control the surge of refugee flows towards our country and Europe. Secondly, Turkey must take action and take out - because it can - the circuits of traffickers and slaves. Thirdly, to finally implement the readmission agreements, both with Greece and the European Union. Especially for Greece, Turkey's attitude is disappointing. Mr President, since we have had the agreement, between 2002 and today, Greece has submitted a hundred forty-four thousand applications for a hundred four thousand cases. Only four thousand have been transferred to Turkey. This is an entirely deficient and, of course, disappointing on the part of Ankara for implementing our bilateral agreement. The fourth thing the Prime Minister needs to do is to close the debate on joint patrols in the Aegean. If this is not done, I wonder why this meeting is taking place, why is this visit? If the Prime Minister returns without anything tangible on these matters, then it will be a wrong visit. He will have served only the public relations and anger on Turkey's image at the wrong time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u46	Mr Kumucako, as you can see, this has nothing to do with the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u47	Look, when the most reactionary one exists in the Greek Parliament, which speaks of completely irrelevant issues, you must not interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u48	Anything the speaker speaks of.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u49	I will end with this, saying that if these are not secured at the Prime Minister's visit to Turkey, then it will be a wrong visit, which has taken place at the wrong time. Besides, it is well known - and it was published without disproved - that there were many reservations and concerns from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself. We are therefore waiting for the Prime Minister to bring tangible results. Mr President, I would ask you to note this very seriously. Immediately after the trip, the Qualified Opposition calls for full information on both the Prime Minister's journey and, more generally, on foreign policy issues. It's critical, especially at this time of the day. This can be done either in committee or in plenary. We certainly need the National Representation to have a full picture of how critical national issues are evolving. However, the end of the Prime Minister's trip to Turkey, but also to Israel, is the reason why such full and binding government information should be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u50	Minister Mardas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, after you opened the procedure - let us not open it - I would also like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u52	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Loverdo, a breach of procedure has to be accompanied by others, I don't know how many.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u54	It's not a violation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u55	I take responsibility for the violation, and we're done here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u56	No, Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u57	You can't do that! Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u58	No, Mr President, you were wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u59	I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u60	You made a mistake before, but only one greeting will be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u61	I was wrong, and I recognize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u62	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u63	For a minute, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u64	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u65	First you accepted a proposal from Mr. Kumucaku...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u66	Do not refer to my colleague, because then Mr Kumoucasos will want to speak. To be honest and honest, I didn't know what he was talking about. I thought he was gonna talk about the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u67	... which is not based in the Rules of Procedure. Article 108(5) does not say what you said. On the other hand, it is completely restricting the limited debate to those who have expressed disagreement. However, it was a question of courtesy, Mr President, for you to give us the floor and, for our part, to express our warmest wishes for the European path on whatever route it takes now through agreement with the European Union on atomic energy issues. I welcome the ambassadors who are here and I on behalf of the Democratic Union and thank them for being here. I would point out to them that we will do everything possible and what goes through our hand to support the European path of these three countries. First of all, Mr President, I should like to point out that our own special speaker, Mr Constantinople, expressed our support for the Commission's meeting in detail and the Rules of Procedure did not allow me to repeat them. However, I would like to say on Mr Kumucaku's comment on the official visit of the Prime Minister of Turkey, that we too have our thoughts. However, Mr President, I do not think it is useful to express reservations, while the leader of the country makes an official visit. When it's done, we'll take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. Mrs Fotini Vakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u69	I, too, would like to welcome the ambassadors and say a few words, first of all, to the major opposition. It is worth wondering why you have focused, gentlemen, on the refugee issue, while the subject of the agenda is another. Now to make use of the public step, to just opposition, I think it makes no sense. I would also expect you to be more disturbed by what has been said before by the representatives of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u70	I don't care, ma'am.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u71	And I would ask you, Mr President, not to include in the Minutes this unfortunate equation which was attempted between yesterday's heroic and supreme act of resistance by the Greek people by a terrorist organization. I would ask it not to be included in the Minutes, because it is a deepest insult to the area we are in. I would like to say a few words, please, about the agreement we have to ratify. We are therefore called upon to ratify the association agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia. The Association Agreements of the European Union and its Member States with Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova, which the Parliament is now invited to ratify, were signed on 27 June 2014 by the Greek Presidency of the Council of the European Union, after approximately three years of negotiation, which lasted from 2010 to 2013, and are part of the Greek partnership, which started in 2009. These are countries which are suffering from poverty, wars and injustices and hope that with this new relationship with the European Union they will finally be able to leave misery behind and move forward. Agreements also have political and economic dimensions. With regard to policies, they establish a regulatory framework for strengthening the rule of law, combating their corruption, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, and peaceful resolution of their differences. With regard to the economy, the possibility that this agreement opens up to companies from all three countries to export freely, without customs links to the European Union, also contributes to growth and creates new jobs. For example, Georgian agricultural products are exempted from duties of EUR 5.7 million and can thus be made more attractive. It is also very good for bilateral relations and for a mutual and beneficial agreement between these countries and our country. After all, we have strong and long-standing ties with these countries. And to conclude by saying that voting in favour of the association of these countries with the European Union is obviously not equivalent to a white cheque in crises or neoliberal and deadlocked policies, aspects of European Union policy sometimes triggering crises. And the government's policy to date has proved itself to be such and has already sent out a message of democracy throughout Europe. However, the incomplete policies of the European Union and its shadows are not corrected either by escapes or by heroic and mourning exits, but by a systematic and painful work of change within this framework, so that the enlargement of the European Union is indeed a headway towards democratic governance, the consolidation of the social state and the preservation of the European acquis and the rightful culture it inherited.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, you haven't even put any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u74	I'm done, okay. And democratic Europe, through the strengthening of its institutions and the restoration of social policy, must not only be wishful, but something we demand every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u76	I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, this is not the first time that this has been done. You've crossed all the line, and I don't mean personally. I mean, in total. Is it not enough that we operate under the urgency procedure? Now the process is specific. Anyone who disagrees speaks. To become a full circle of parliamentary representatives, to tell everyone what they want on every subject, I think that the Bureau should not do so again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u78	Wait a minute, Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u79	I don't want to continue the intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u80	Here you have raised many issues together, which do not fit in today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u81	How doesn't it fit?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u82	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u83	We have agreements, they speak to those who disagree, the Minister speaks, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u84	You're right. Parliamentary representatives against a broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure may speak. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, this is none of your business. It's only about the procedure. Where we need time, you bring them urgently and no one can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u86	Please! I heard them, Mr. Palphie, but I think it's a little miserable. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, thank you. From the standpoint of the Independent Greeks, I would like to welcome the ambassadors of Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine to our Parliament. I hope that their people will live in peace now and that Europe, as a whole and with a common foreign policy - and I stress it - can help these countries with its neighbours and the whole of the European family. I would like to remind you here that the European Union has as basic principles democracy, the rule of law, human rights, peace, which are unnegotiable throughout the length and width of all the participating states and future states. Education, the environment, security, defence and crime play an important role in the European Union. All this in a context of democracy and if we get to today's day, with what we see happening in Paris, Sinai, Kenya, Syria, with the terrorists, who are trying to bring the peace of European citizens and all, if you want, of the democratic citizens around the world, we must all - and the new countries, like you, which we invite you and thank you for being with us in the enlarged European Union family - manage the crises together. Crisis management is something that the European Union needs from our experience to structure differently. It is not a country's own right to go out or see its own interests, if you like, but we must jointly build up a single foreign policy strategy and a single crisis management. To close - and I thank the President for his tolerance for thirty more seconds - to propose something to the Bureau and all the colleagues, who are here specifically on the issue of Ukraine - but also to the other two friends - to whom the International Monetary Fund has already entered. I would remind you that the night of the change of government left all your gold from the central bank and went to a place you don't know. Your strategic gold reserves left the night of the change of governance. I would therefore like to say this: I intend and propose that we become interparliamentary groups both in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and in the Committee on Energy, so that we invite you to see our own experiences from the crisis, our own experiences from involvement with the European Union in all institutions, our own experiences in the banking system, our own experiences in the recapitalisation of banks, red loans, the recession and the International Monetary Fund. I am speaking as Vice-President of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, but I believe that other colleagues, both on energy and on other issues, will agree with me. I invite you and I make a proposal to the Bureau to become groups so that we can exchange views. And, with all due respect, we are here to help you with your experience and do not consider it an insulting thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Carras, you have the floor for a minute, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u89	I shall be brief, Mr President. I welcome the ambassadors of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. I welcome them to the European family, and hope that they will embrace the democratic principles of the European Union, so that we can move on to all the peoples of Europe together with peace and goodness of the peoples, so that the development of the people can be achieved. I would like to remind you, and they will allow me, that Greece has traditional ties with these three countries since the Byzantine era, because there has been a common course both Georgia and Moldova and Ukraine in the process towards the Middle Ages and up to the abundance. So I think that these are inseparable ties to Greek reality. I believe that both governments and peoples will work to move these countries forward, to become fully integrated into the European Union. Finally, I would also support the proposal by my colleague, Mr Kammenos, for closer parliamentary contact. We're still welcoming.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u90	Mr Marda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have three association agreements to ratify, which, after having passed the entire procedure provided for by the institutions of the European Union, result in national parliaments. The agreements do not give rise to any specific features. The European Union has signed dozens of such agreements, which provide for an association procedure. These agreements have four hundred sixty-five articles. The contents of the agreements are divided into six headings. The three titles refer to matters of democracy, human rights and everything that is relevant to the new chapters of the Treaty of Lisbon, while in earlier agreements we did not have such formalities, as we did not have the Treaty of Lisbon. The fourth heading refers to a set of economic issues, transport fisheries and everything else you can imagine. There we have energy issues, where we have a chapter with three simple articles. This chapter does not present anything special with regard to nuclear energy, which is outside the rules of the European Union or outside the treaties of the European Union. The fourth chapter refers to trade-related issues. Perhaps we can say that this is of particular importance as a free trade area is created. It is related to trade in goods and services. A transitional phase is planned for 10 years with regard to the adjustment of trade in goods. As far as services are concerned, not all services are included, there are exceptions to this issue. The sixth chapter concludes with financial cooperation, which is developed between the European Union and these countries. So this is the whole content of an association agreement, which - I repeat - is nothing special in relation to the association agreements of this kind signed by the European Union with the rest of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. (a) ‘Following the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, after the Protocol on Correction annexed thereto’, (b) ‘Following the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, and the Practical Correction Protocol’ and (c) ‘Following the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the other part, following the Protocol on Correction’. Their vote will be taken separately. Does the House agree that the draft law on the establishment of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, following the Correction Protocol annexed thereto?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u93	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u94	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u95	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Following the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, following the Correction Protocol attached thereto’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u96	Does the House agree that the draft law on the establishment of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, and the Practice Correction Agreement, of the other part?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u97	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u98	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u99	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ‘Preparation of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, and its Practical Correction’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u100	Does the House accept the bill: 'Following the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, after the Correction Protocol annexed to it'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u101	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u102	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u103	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Following the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, following the Correction Protocol annexed thereto’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the vote on all these drafts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u105	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on the Expenditure Report of the Parliament and the Draft Budget for the Parliament, I propose that we take a short five-minute break.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFIC PROVISIONS JUDGMENTS ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT a. Only discussion and approval of Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2014. b. Only debate and vote of Parliament's Budget Expenditure Plan, financial year 2016. c. Adoption of a decision to amend the Z' Resolution on the reduction of parliamentary compensation. Under Rule 97 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, rapporteurs and special speakers will speak for 15 minutes, Parliamentary Representatives for 12 minutes and colleagues who will be on the list of speakers for seven minutes. Before giving the floor to Mr Meikopoulou, I know that the New Democracy appoints the Parliamentary Representative for today's debate as Members of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The People's Association - Golden Dawn designates MP Boeotias Evangelos Karakostas and Parliamentary Representative, Christos Papapas. The Democratic Reconciliation designates a special speaker, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos. The JRC appoints a special speaker, Mr Georgios Lambroulis. The river designates a special speaker from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Theocharis Theocharis and Mr Spyros Danellis. From the Independent Greeks, the MP Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos is appointed as a special speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u108	Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u109	Is there the possibility of having an update on the proposed amendments to the resolution, why do I not have such a text in my hands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u110	Of course there is. It is submitted for the Minutes and will be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u111	The majority rapporteur, Alexandros Meikopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the Parliament's budget for 2016, which, as you all know, includes appropriations for parliamentary allowances and staff remuneration, commissions for the operation of the services, the maintenance and repair of the Parliament's buildings, as well as appropriations intended to promote the work of the Parliament and the promotion of national, social and cultural objectives. In 2015 the Parliament's budget foresees expenditure of EUR 139.922,000. The new budget for 2016 amounts to EUR 136,016,000, with a reduction of EUR 3,906,000 compared to the forecast for the previous financial year. This reduction in expenditure over the period from 2009 to 2016 corresponds to a percentage reduction of 38.77%. In addition, the Parliament's budget for 2016 is reduced by EUR 4,128,000 of the medium-term financial strategy objective. Regarding the annual percentage change I have to note that in relation to Parliament's budget for 2015 it has a 2.79% cut in expenditure. This reduction therefore reflects the general effort to adapt to the current unfavourable economic situation, but with the aim of maintaining the quality of the services provided to Members and to Parliament's services. As far as the allocation of appropriations is concerned, Parliament's expenditure is being categorised in four groups: payments for services, supplies of goods and capital equipment, transfers and expenditure not included in other categories. More specifically, the first category includes credits for parliamentary allowances, remuneration of the parliamentary civil servants and fees of the scientific associates, costs of internal and external travel, costs for Parliament's public and international relations, as well as credits for other services such as postal, telephone and telecommunications services, water, lighting and maintenance rents for rented buildings. The total cost of this category amounts to EUR 124,523,000 for 2016 and is reduced by EUR 3,648,400 compared to 2015, where the expenditure was EUR 128,171,400. In other words, we have a 2.84% reduction. This reduction in expenditure this year is mainly due to reductions in parliamentary allowances and benefits to Members. In particular, there is a 10% reduction in parliamentary compensation from EUR 1-1-2016, i.e. a total of EUR 2,054,000, and therefore a reduction in the Members' employer's contribution to the EEA by EUR 106,000. In other words, parliamentary compensation is reduced by 38%, 28% due to cuts in the past years and 10% due to the current reduction. It is worth pointing out that for the first time in the years of the crisis there is a reduction in basic wages. Of course, there have been reductions in benefits. The compensation for the committees was EUR 292 and is now EUR 75. Regarding the tax regime for parliamentary compensation is an issue that we will see from 1-1-2016, as it is imposed by the prevailing circumstances. Furthermore, the reduction in parliamentary compensation also brings the office organisation allowance, as this is calculated as a percentage of the parliamentary allowance, thus reducing by 4.9%, i.e. a total of EUR 313,000. We also have: Elimination of the compensation for Members' participation in the Summer Departments, thus saving EUR 100,000. Reduction by 20% of the cost of leasing for cars to Members from 1-1-2016, as contracts will be made with cars of the most economic type, oil, new technology, 1,400 to 1,600 cubic metres, thus saving 6,555 000 euros. In addition, we have reduced expenditure on the fixed telephony price by 11.5% and on the mobile telephony price by 13.3% from 1/3/2016 to Members. I should like to point out that this reduction does not entail a reduction in the services provided, but rather an increase in both mobile and fixed telephony. I would also like to point out the very great and remarkable effort of the House to be able to rationalise the building sector. First of all, a reduction in buildings by EUR 323,000 has been recorded, as the lease agreements have been renegotiated and we are talking about extensions of renting of certain buildings where Parliament's services are housed. However, we also have investment initiatives in private buildings, with a projected increase in expenditure of EUR 2,170,000 in code 0851, which are the fees for maintenance and repair of buildings in general and of other permanent buildings, in order to restore the buildings of the House, that is, for restoration work of the Benaki Library, in an effort to pass on to the use of the House, the overlapping system in plenary and Senate rooms, as well as insulation into the parlors of the House's House, as well as renovation and maintenance work in which the House's services are housed. More generally, the utilization of Parliament's assets is aimed at gradually decommissioning from the rented buildings where it houses its services. The current cost is therefore a future depreciation due to the savings resulting from the reduction in the number of rented buildings. The second category includes credits for the supply of services equipment, laboratories and infrastructure, health and pharmaceuticals, maintenance and repair of electrical, water, heating and other equipment, heating and working fuels and other supplies. The total expenditure of the second category is budgeted at EUR 6372,000 for 2016, increased by 374,000 compared to 2015. However, the increase, recorded this year, is less than last year's increase by EUR 277,200. This increase results from the increase in the code number 1311 Procurement and Repair of Facilities by EUR 240,000, due to the supply of materials for maintenance work relating to the maintenance of the mechanical equipment of the Parliament, the increase in the code number 1511 Fuel and Liquids Supply by EUR 39,400, due to the fact that for 2015 from the budgeted credit amounting to EUR 132,000, 81,400 were transferred to EL.AS Headquarters. for the supply of the service vehicles of the Parliament of the period 1-1-2014 to 31-12-2014 - so it is not actually an increase - the increase in the code number 1712 Provision of Heating and Air Conditioning Equipment by EUR 125,000, due to the provision of air-conditioning units for the needs of the building on the Lenorman Street. The III category includes the Parliament's contribution to Social Security Agency, the Parliament's grants to private legal persons, the Parliament's contributions to various international cultural organizations, the aid to natural persons, the children of fallen officers of the Armed Forces, the Greek Police and the Fire Corps. The total cost of the third category amounts to EUR 3,621,000 and is reduced by EUR 650,000 compared to last year's credit amounting to EUR 4,271,000. The fourth category includes the reserve of the Parliament, whose forecast credit for 2016 remains stable at the same level as in 2015, i.e. EUR 1.50,000, and is considered necessary to address various emergencies. With regard to Parliament's statement of expenditure for the financial year 2014, I would like to point out that, once again, the result of the Parliament's balance sheet is surplus, as the expenditure as a whole did not exceed the budgeted amounts. The 2014 report therefore presents the results of the implementation of the corresponding budget and its main elements are the appropriations allocated, the appropriations committed, the payments made and the appropriations still outstanding. More specifically, for 2014 expenditure totalling EUR 141,888,000 had been budgeted and approved. Finally, Parliament's budget appropriations were set at EUR 141,813,800, because 84,200 euros were deducted by reasoned decisions by the President of Parliament and the Minister of Finance. Overall, 133,855,700 euros were spent in 2014 and returned from the parliament back to the state budget 7,958,100 euros. In addition, the General Accounting Office of the State returned the amount of EUR 3,314,90, which was finally unsettled. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the preparation of this year's 2016 budget was initiated within the framework of which the state budget is moving, as is the general situation. It has been made in the light of the principles of sound financial management, openness and transparency, without undermining the quality of the services provided in this House, with a view to all Parliament, its staff and its functions as much as possible to the common sense. It would be a serious omission on my part not to thank the political staff of the House for the important work they offer with reduced pay in the years of the crisis. Their contribution is valuable in the work in which we are all called upon to respond, in the difficult circumstances that our country is going through. With this information and this data, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all to vote together in favour of the Greek Parliament budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u113	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-two students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the 2nd Kerate Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that there are many years since the country has been plunged into recession and unemployment. It has been many years since our winter people suffers all the suffering, it has besieged, one part seeks ways and goals to manifest anger and another has passed to apathy. In these circumstances it makes sense to seek ways of cutting costs and cutbacks at all levels, even in Parliament. This year, we are voting for a budget even more limited. The figures are well known, the cuts have already been mentioned and made public. The previous colleague gave all the information and facilitated the debate to go a little further, as I had imagined. Everyone in this country has suffered incredible sacrifices. As I have said, Parliament is making new cuts every year. This, of course, is understood by everyone and we all agree. I say this because I want to say that we have agreed from the outset in every attempt to cut costs, as well as in the reductions in compensation. From now on, however, I would like to say some other things and I am entitled to say them, because that is not what I am doing now as a parliamentarian, but I have been doing it systematically for decades, even during the time of the crisis, as a journalist, whether it was the party that I supported and voted in power or not. Thinking is always the same: is Parliament an easy target or not? Is this targeting of the wicked? Also, do we need Parliament? I imagine everyone will doubtless say 'yes'. So we need the MPs, that is, the elected representatives of the nation, because our democracy is a parliament? I imagine everyone will say 'yes'. Next question: what do we want Members? How do we want them to work? To communicate with the people or not? Move in or enter the House to make their hours as civil servants and leave? In any event, when I was not a Member, I had written an article entitled "We are not looking for cheap people, we are looking for good people" and I had argued that when we judge the political system on the basis of the level of its allowances and its prerogatives, as they were called propagandaally the tools given to the MPs in order to be able to do their job better, then it is certain that neither money will be saved, nor will political staff be improved. Several proposals have been made at times to reduce the so-called cost of democracy. It all seemed to me - and when I was not a Member and I wrote this - suspects. I felt that they were aiming to create a closed caste of professional politicians, to ensure that they have already been elected, to strengthen family rule and to transfer parliamentary seats, I am rightfully inherited. I have said on many occasions that if only the rich should be involved in politics, then we could appoint them directly, not to be spent in electoral procedures. That is to say - I said at the time - a draw between industrialists, shipowners, bankers, parents, and those who have strong friends and can fund their election campaigns and post-election obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always believed that we should have the best and not be subject to the logic that 'all right, we must have a Parliament, let us make sure, since we need it, that it does not cost us any less'. In this sense, therefore, only the rich and perhaps not the most skilled must be made. The poor and able will never deal with politics. That is not our problem, because if that were the problem, it would be simple: we would completely abolish parliamentary compensation. Reliability is earned when parliamentarians do their job in such a way that the people prosper, do not fall into tolerance and do not gather out of the House by murmuring. In fact, I had once written an article: 'If the Members of Parliament were not paid at all, would there be fewer nuggets?' Reliability, therefore, is something very specific and it is earned by each other's work. Otherwise, we will come a day when we will make the lobby and the "lobbies" politicians will then legislate according to the interests of their supporters. In another case, again in unsuspecting time, I tell you, without any connection to politics, that our aim is not to maintain a framework of parliamentary democracy. "The so-called cost of democracy must relate to the effective functioning of the democratic parliamentary culture, so that the people are represented in the best and most effective way, in view of the well-being of the nation. I agree that all the above criteria have not been met, and of course we have had the well-known results. But it is much more complicated. Things will not get better if we continue to have the same inefficient and harmful for the country of operation and simply interrupt its costs." That's what I wrote. "The issue is to improve the level and level of services provided to democracy, but at the time when we tied dogs to the loan sausages no one had a problem. What we are watching now that all sausages have been eaten is a general attack on parliamentarianism, namely popular representation. In other words, at the time when we should be more concerned about the quality of the political services, every effort is being made to say that it can remain the same, simply cost less." I had written these at the beginning of the crisis before the crisis showed its teeth. If we want Members who simply enter Parliament's building for ornamental reasons, and otherwise they will be the organs of their funding, those who support this must be clearly and say so. If we want MPs dependent on anyone other than their real employer, that is to say the people, it must also be said, whoever believes that. I'm setting an example. If some people said they don't want any compensation, no money, that they're being offered to give these services absolutely free, what do we say? Wouldn't we say that something is being hidden behind this, that somehow they intend to earn maybe more money than a reward? What about, say, a Thessalo or a Peloponnese Member of the North Peloponnese, who doesn't have an airport in his area, so no money is paid for his plane trip and pays gasoline, say? I do not want to talk about our own regions here, not to be seen as talking about ourselves. How about this congressman? Wouldn't we say he's somewhere else looking for something else to do? Ladies and gentlemen, at this point in time there is a great need to defend the parliamentary culture which has long been subject to an unprecedented attack. The defence of the parliamentary culture must first be taken by the Bureau of Parliament, but also by the people themselves, because our people have fallen into many traps, and this is the most dangerous one. We, Mr President, have agreed at the very first moment to the new attempt to limit Parliament's budget and we are voting on the Parliament's budget, while we all remember that in previous years the House's budget was being voted down by the opposition, which at the time called them a populism-crowding. It is perhaps the first time that we have agreed that we should reduce expenditure without undermining Parliament's function, that is to say, finding the gold incision. I want to make it clear that we do not agree with interventions by the executive in Parliament's operation. Because when Parliament is abolished, the executive authority always occupyes it, whose structures remain expensive for today's data. We consider unacceptable reports from ministers, even of the Prime Minister himself, on matters of Parliament. When the executive puts legislative power at the forefront, then one thing is certain: we are heading for the abolition of Parliament. And I would like to ask you this: has anyone ever bothered to deal with how much the executive costs, how much is the cost of a ministerial office or the prime minister's office? Mr. Vernardakis, for example, is never elected, how much does it cost? Is it worth his money? Does he get it? Has he been evaluated? Because if not, then it's even worse. The executive power and its costs are not even the so-called cost of democracy, even in the sense of the necessary evil. There's executive power in the dictatorships, I want to remind you. Only in democracies there is legislative power, parliament. So, according to the anti-parliamentary practice, one could say that the people agree to pay the executive, but they do not want to pay the parliamentary bill. If that's the case, then I think there's no more step down. Of course, if the people agree with the agreement - let us say - of summer, one can say that one can agree with those who negotiated it and implement it, that is, with the representatives of the executive. So it can be seen as worthy of executive power and not worthy of Parliament's wages. Ladies and gentlemen, because these days we are also enacting legislative acts - twelve - one of them relates to the salaries of foreign officials, by way of derogation from any general or specific provision, and I therefore consider it unacceptable that the Bureau of Parliament should not be accepted to have ministers involved in Parliament and its costs. The people cannot be trained against their own representatives, but an act of legislation which, for example, dates back to 31 July and which ensures that the wages of these consultants, including the famous Korean, are paid to them, passes on to the nuts in twelve legislative acts. That's never been learned by the people. I don't think he'll know. And when he finds out, what will the Ministers tell him? That these advisors - Korean or I do not know who - are more useful than Members who themselves choose the people? To sum up, ‘yes’ in any attempt to curb costs. 'No', however, in the context of a dangerous anti-parliamentary climate, but in the context of the general effort we are all doing in this area. Finally, I would remind you that when Mussolini closed Parliament in 1925, he abolished it as a body that was costly and appalling to waste his time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Karakostas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u116	I would like to begin by reading a report published in all the media - television stations and newspapers - concerning the shameful agreement of the SYRIZA Government with the lenders for first home auctions. Only 25% of the indebted borrowers are protected under the agreement, and about three hundred thousand red loans can potentially be auctioned if the borrowers are deemed non-cooperative if they disagree with the requirements of the banking institutions, which will result from the control of their assets. The immediate risk of losing the first home is facing fifty thousand households. In addition, according to OECD report figures, the number of unemployed in Greece in 2015 is moving to one million per cent of ninety-seven thousand thirty-six people, while in at least fifty thousand families there is not one employee. This regrettable feature is to be added to the Commission's assessment that unemployment in Greece in 2015 will reach 25.7%, while in 2016 it will increase to 25.8% of the active population. Furthermore, our compatriots' suicides in the years of the memoranda have exceeded ten thousand, with hundreds of thousands of young people without any prospect of finding work going abroad, seeking the right to work that deprives them of the Greek state. The social state has long ceased to exist. No doubt about that. But what about the rule of law? The rule of law is a fairy tale, and this is evidenced by the fact that none of the major scandals of the recent past have taken the path of justice, the efficiency of responsibilities and the punishment of the guilty. Where are the memorial examinations, where are the search for responsibilities for the Lagard scandal, the London property list, the Luxembourg list, the submarine scandal? Nowhere. Nowhere, because the left-wing government's policy follows literally that of the previous governments and is henceforth a fold. General sale, general collapsing. Unless the political system considers that through the condemnation of Chohazopoulou, the primary and subsequent crimes at the expense of the country and the people have been purified. In the midst, therefore, of the impoverishment that is multiplying, although the forces of the "anti-constitutional arch" proclaimed that the memorials would save Greece, Parliament presented its 2016 budget report. It is a budget of EUR 136 million. As it says, this budget is EUR 3 million reduced compared to that of 2015. During the debate prior to today's sitting and in line with what SYRIZA and New Democracy's representatives have said here, the parties to the memorandum expressed their views from now on: The MPs have suffered a serious reduction in wages and allowances in relation to the previous memorandum years, while some have even gone further claiming that they are having difficulty in carrying out their parliamentary duties. For this, as they have said - and you have just heard them - the folkism is responsible for the rhetoric of certain political parties and the anti-parliamentary climate which exists and is exacerbated in society. Unfortunately for those who sign the hard and inhumane memorial measures and then represent the affected, three hundred thousand Greeks who will lose their homes, one and a half million unemployed who do not find work and hundreds of thousands of graduated young people who leave abroad are not populism but social reality. It is both the courage of some to dare to show the scale of the sacrifices they have suffered, to compare the wages of the Greek MPs with their respective European counterparts, as if the Greek worker or employee were paid as much as the European citizen is paid. In such a morbid climate, Parliament's budget for 2016 and the 2014 report are to be voted on. As far as he is concerned in 2016, I repeat that he is reduced by EUR 3 million compared with last year. No one can question that there is a reduction. However, Golden Dawn insists that this fall is a drop in the ocean of poverty, impoverishment and humiliation scattered by the Memorandum forces to the Greek people. The People's Association - Golden Dawn does not, of course, speak of security, as other parties are doing that represent the wars of the memorials. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Golden Dawn speaks and opposes the privileged position of the only party whose funds have been controlled by the IMO, the only party for which the previous parliament voted to suspend state funding. And yet, with zero government funding, the Golden Dawn held four election campaigns, regional and municipal, European elections in '14, national elections in January and September 2015, proving that the objections about the difficulty of parliamentarians meeting their parliamentary duties are perpetrators. Having succeeded and continued to do so by Golden Dawn, why cannot the rest of the parties, which, not least, have never been controlled by the ILO? Who do they think they can make fun of, with their MPs showing up here as supposed participants in the tragedy the Greek people are experiencing? And if they consider it so difficult to deal with the exercise of their parliamentary duties, then we say loudly that they were not obliged to be Members of Parliament. Let me remind you here of my military service. Many, of course, haven't even served in here, or others have taken over their term, so you hear and learn...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u117	Go on! Thirty months I served!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u118	Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u119	Those who had the honor of serving in the cruiser forces remember a permanent line - an appeal to the few, which reads as follows: 'Kill!' That was the urge toward the few. Accordingly, any of you who consider that their parliamentary privileges are affected and unable to meet their obligations should be cut off by themselves. Let him quit! The Golden Dawn, being the only party whose state funding has been suspended, considers the existing budget reductions, to be the least possible for the political system in times of tolerance and impoverishment, with a view to deceiving public opinion. Golden Dawn, as its only genuine popular movement, insists on its 2012 political proclamations: Firstly, Members should be reduced to two hundred and retired from their professional funds. Secondly, all immunitys and privileges of MPs and ministers should be abolished. Thirdly, there should be a further reduction in the total remuneration. Fourthly, the parties should not be financed by the public and their finances checked. For the reasons set out above, the People's Association - Golden Dawn votes'residents' in terms of the budgets of '16 and '14' and 'yes' in reducing parliamentary compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u120	Thank you Mr Evangelos Karakostas, special speaker of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. The reason is now the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u121	You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's debate on the budget of the House of Parliament for the financial year 2016, to express some thoughts directly linked to the subject of our debate, so that this does not mean that this is a simple, ongoing, processive cut-off process, with the peak of the cut-off of the Members' salaries, within a bleak climate of disappointment and despair of our people, which is called on to pay back, on which is based and cultivated the most vulgar anti-parliamentism like what you heard earlier, from Golden Dawn. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday throughout the country, the people and the youth and we in this Chamber, all the political forces other than Golden Dawn, honoured the forty-second anniversary of the Polytechnic uprising, the culmination, that is, the moment of the resistance of our youth and our people against the seven-year-old junta and the fascist regime. After the fall of the junta in 1974, the post-collection period of peace, democracy and progress has been historically the longest period at all levels. This period has guaranteed political and institutional something that has been both a conscious choice and a decision of democratic citizens, financial support, through the budget of the state, of the institutions of our democratic culture, the leading expression of which is the national Parliament. For the so-called 'cost' of democracy, the debate has always been intense and interesting, as the people's demand for more democracy and participation, for transparency and accountability, for equality and justice, were touching crucial aspects of the functioning of the parliamentary system, which had to be constantly reformed, in order to deepen and further guarantee democratic democracy in all its manifestations. And while they were still open and incomplete, despite the partial interventions, discussions on the changes in the political system that would close the cycle of post-multi-population and end up with overturning the interim reforms, it was the crisis that overturned everything and put its own seal and agenda at the end of the post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mult-multi-mult-mult-multition cycle, as it is known that the effort for violent fiscal adjustment dominates all the rest, including democratic institutions. The spending budget of the Parliament for 2010, which was discussed and voted on here at this time in 2009, i.e. before a memorial, was the first budget of the years of the crisis - which I would remind you of - which marked a reduction in expenditure in the functioning of the political system. Some changes in that political period, such as the inclusion in the IAS of the recruitment of parliamentary officials who until then were the prerogatives of the President, the 'DIAGY', etc., together with the biggest cuts that followed in the years to come in the financing of political parties, the salaries of the members of the parliament, and the reduction in Parliament's expenditure resulting mainly from the reduction in Members' wages but also from the reduction in Members' wages, have been the practical proof that they have taken part in the efforts of budgetary consolidation and, in particular, the proof that those who have a responsibility for the crisis and management and, above all, in order to get the country out of the crisis must first take the highest weight from the costs of the ordinary citizen but also serve as a model for their public life in their way of life and behaviour, which can be counterproductive even more severely criticised. The Parliament's budget for 2016 continues to strive to cut expenditure started in 2010 and leads to a cumulative reduction of 38.77% for the period 2010-2016, i.e. from 222 million in 2009 to 136 million in 2016. The reduction in the budget by EUR 3,906,000, from EUR 139,922,000 in 2015 to EUR 136,016,000 in 2016, is mainly due to 67% - look at it - to the reduction of the parliamentary compensation of 2,613 000. We must also note that over the years I have mentioned, the continuous cuts in Parliament's budget, in the end there was also a return to the General Accounting Office of the State, as the expenditure was not due to be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are all conscious of the crisis of untrustworthiness that passes through the political system as a whole, whether this is the result of its sufferings which we have not faced either is the result of our crisis and our inability to provide effective solutions or is due to the condemnable acts of certain prosecuting officials who have provoked the wrath of the people and some who, even now, continue with their actions and their omissions to cause it. The fact is that this growing unreliability of the political system is due to a combination of all the above, much more so that the economic crisis, the debt crisis and budgetary deficits, has led to painful decisions for the majority of the people in order to avoid the worst. Thus, it gave ground, vital space, to the sworn enemies of democracy, as expressed by the fascist formula of the Golden Dawn - you have heard it before - but also to all kinds of pseudo and slanders, to the authors of incredible and unrealistic theories to deal with the crisis, as unfortunately the harsh reality, which overthrowed the relationship of truth and democracy, invested politically in the perpetrated and self-supported crisis of the political system, to serve their own - and not only political purposes - by making it impossible for democracy and its institutions to defend the conquest of struggles and sacrifices of our people, as reminded us yesterday's anniversary of the Polytechnics. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have to answer the question: If the continuing cut in Parliament's expenditure, even beyond the limit which guarantees the respect of non-negotiable principles, such as popular sovereignty and genuine, indisputable, genuine and proportionate representation of the people, is sufficient in itself to rebuild the authority and credibility of Parliament and Members of Parliament, as ministers of democracy, and not as part of a political elite enjoying privileges, while the resistance of the people has exceeded their own limits. We must respond to each one of the responsibility that the people have given him, with the main responsibility of the majority, the President and the Bureau of Parliament, all the parties to the democratic arch, given our political differences but also every Member of Parliament. In this context, I have to come up with a certain question about the necessary answers that I think we should give, as I have said, to the position that has been taken by our people. What are the necessary changes in the structure and functioning of the parliamentary system to make this genuinely representative, attractive and participatory, so that the so-called cost of democracy can be made more efficient and understandable by the citizens? In the context of these changes, will we address the causes that lead to the need for so-called political money, which leads to the complexion many times, exacerbate the competition of the cross of choice and, in the end, make anyone with no such property or implicit income, 'a child' of politics, making our political system an oligarchal or hereditary? Are we going to continue the reform effort, by transferring decisions, responsibilities and resources to decentralised institutions of democracy, so that citizens decide on all local issues? Are we going to restore the bodies affected by the crisis of social dialogue and participation to make them participa- tions and shapers of our own decisions? Are we satisfied with the institutions of transparency and accountability, or do we have a lot to do? Will we, ladies and gentlemen, extend the so-called obedience to everyone and everything, to everyone and everywhere, or will we be subject to pressure, purpose and transactions, through persons, institutions and powers, who judge and decide for everything without being judged and accountable? Will we show that the parliamentary allowances, together with the sponsorship of the President of the Republic, are just a few millimeters of the state's total expenditure? According to the 2013 budget report that we discussed here a few days ago in this House and happened to be the rapporteur again, this expenditure is only 0.023% or 23 millimeter of the total expenditure of our state. This level of expenditure is less than many countries, having at least one satisfactory democracy and the same standard of living as us. How will we prove that the so-called 'private privileges' are essential tools and instruments for the Members' elementary response to his duties, particularly those of the region's MPs, do not give him any additional real income and how his abolition is not replaced by other procedures in the exercise of his duties and other more effective means will lead directly to the House of the real privileged and ombudsmen of the system? Is it worth reminding us that we have been renounced, ladies and gentlemen, with our will and with our signature, the right to appeal to the competent courts on the basis of their own decisions on remuneration matters or no longer have any value in this anti-parliamentary climate to discuss it? Will the cuts in Parliament's expenditure and the reductions in parliamentary allowances, the result of obscene anti-parliamentism and the government's political distraction towards the popular anger of the deceived voters, or will it be part of an integrated framework for upgrading the parliamentary work and supporting the work of the MP? I could, ladies and gentlemen, add other crucial issues for which a number of citizens require answers and solutions to regain faith in democracy. I do not intend to put it all, but I do not intend to answer it on my own. With these thoughts I have put forward, in order not to, as I said in introductory terms, a simple process for the debate today, I am voting on behalf of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR on the spending budget of the House for the financial year 2016 and the 2014 report. I look forward to and expect all initiatives on the part of the majority and the Bureau. We have already taken a number of measures in this direction, and we will continue to be - and we will be - ready to make a creative contribution to this debate and to the necessary decisions, as strengthening the credibility and effectiveness of democratic institutions is not just a constitutional obligation and mandate to hold the democratic struggles of our people, but also a means for unity, national understanding and social consensus, which are the necessary conditions for our country to come out of the crisis with our people alive and united. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u122	We thank Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos for his special speaker in the PASOK - DIMAR. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear and understandable at the same time that Parliament's budget for 2016 is an integral part of the state budget. It is, in other words, adapted to the economic policy pursued and the achievement of the objectives of the medium-term budgetary strategy, which the former and the current government are implementing. This is a policy that burdens the burdens of the capitalist economic crisis on the backs of the working class, the populaces, providing simpler and more challenging privileges, incentives, tax exemptions, tax reliefs and warm money to big business groups, banks, industrialists and shipowners, in order to ensure their profitability not only during the period of the crisis but also during any capitalist recovery. And this anti-grassroots policy goes through Parliament's legislative work against the interests of the majority of our people, resulting in a continuing decline in the number of conquests, rights and a drastic reduction in the income of workers. We believe that there should be a reasonable reduction in Parliament's expenditure where there is room for manoeuvre. And there's such a thing. So the Parliament's budget for 2016 appears to be reduced compared to 2015 and this is largely due to the reductions in parliamentary compensation and benefits, which we find is in agreement, after all, we have also placed ourselves in the committee. We must note, however, that the Communist Party long before the outbreak of the crisis had proposed a number of measures, years before it had tabled concrete proposals, and with regard to the drastic reduction of parliamentary allowances or, if you like, the abolition of Members' salaries for their participation in committee meetings, we have first talked about the abolition of parliamentary pensions and other proposals which are not here. At the same time, many times we have been placed in detail on the overall position of our party in terms of heresy, on the way in which it is elected, on the irrevocability of parliamentarians and other hereditaries, which, of course, is concerned and we emphasise it in another labour power, a people's power for which we are fighting for. We consider, as is shown in the budget, that there are funds and expenditure which are judged and necessary for repairs, maintenance or other infrastructure for the reserve and others. In our view, it is also an important issue - and we have stressed it in committee too - that, in particular, if you wish - working relations between the workers of all sectors, particularly those who work with flexible working relationships, fixed-term private law, blocks, etc., as well as those of workers in the services sector of the Parliament, where there are contractors. And it is well known that many times in these areas, workers are not normally paid, or there are problems with insurance contributions. We believe that in this House too, as we claim as a party in all areas of services, workers should have a stable job with guaranteed insurance and wage rights. At the same time, we believe that the services of this House should be systematically controlled so that these workers too will not become harder, or, if you like, they will be exploited by contractors. On the basis of the above, Mr President, we are voting 'at present' on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u124	Thank you Mr. George Lambroulis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Theocharis Theocharis, a special speaker from the river for 15 minutes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House budget we are debating is a budget that takes into account the reality of the whole country. It has a reduction of 2.9%, more than 3 million, which is mainly due to the reduction in the basic salary of Members of Parliament, by 38% from the number of judges. It is right that Members should be taxed, as all Greek citizens are taxed. We must not have any exceptions and we have a system of taxation with many exceptions and high rates. It must widen our tax system, widen the tax base, cut all the exceptions both within and outside, and the exemptions from taxation - if any - of the Members and other social groups and reduce the overall tax rates. We welcome it for budgetary reasons, but above all we welcome it for the sake of justice. Other colleagues have said that there is a risk. This reduction is important and marginally important for a new Member, without any other resources, can do his job decently. Therefore, we must be careful if we do not want to get to dangerous points about parliamentary democracy before further reductions are made. In fact, however, populism, which leads us to devalue parliamentary democracy, is a populism that comes because we ourselves with the lies we tell the Greek people, we help. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have made the world vote 'no' and the server 'yes' next week. You did everything you condemned and said disastrously about democracy. You did not just criticise some mistakes by the previous governments, you said they were coups against democracy and you did them in the ninth. Previous governments have legislated 20% with urgent procedure - another urgent - 70% of you are legislating by urgent procedure. If we want to put the relationship of parliamentary democracy on a proper footing with the citizens, the relationship of the political system with the citizens, we must finally launch a deep plan for the reconstruction of the country. We must deal with the Constitutional Review so that there is no hug between executive and legislative power, as it is in our Constitution today, that there is no dependence of judicial authority on the executive. All these changes, like the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, will inspire the relationship and feeling of the citizen and confidence in the parliamentary system. That is what we are asking today. Trust is lacking in society and trust is another word for society. We must strengthen the institutions in our country. Codes from committees of experts, praisers, judges and lawyers need to be updated. It is necessary to strengthen the aid with extrajudicial and administrative staff to the judges. We've got a lot of judges and a little staff helping them. They deal with triumphantly, and they do not have time for sobering and calming to deal with the cases. They must be free from them. We need the technological upgrading of the courts, too. So, for example, we need to eliminate the time between decision-making and scaffolding. What's that supposed to mean? The next day, the decision should be given to everyone. We must have an absolute commitment to emancipation and the professionalism of public administration. Getting the parties out of the public eye is a key parameter for regaining citizens' confidence. When the parties promote anxieties, they break down the morale of civil servants and they have no confidence in public administration. This is how we end up not to be trusted by the citizens. Anti-corruption actions must be supported, public interest witnesses should be better protected, whistleblowers. Those who denounce and help dismantle circuits must be protected. Are they being implemented? There are laws that say they are covered by tax immunity for the year that they denounce that an auditor, for example, asks them miserable, asks them to "book" to let control pass. Has one of them been protected from this law? We must protect our fellow citizens. If we do not deal with this before we deal with the big problems of the country, even before we move on to bureaucracy, attract investment, rationalise public finances, tax systems, and finally have a fair system of insurance without loopholes and exceptions. Not the ECIs outside or the pension of the Bank of Greece, always in exceptions. No cuts in the 2010 pensions. Do you know that right now, the laws that pass cut into the 2010 nominal pensions to hide the percentage? Because someone who took 1,500 euros in 2010, and you say to him "Stop 10%, 150 euros", now he can get 1,000 euros and 150 euros at 1,000 is 15%. But the one who gets a 1,000 euros is cut off and so now he can go lower than someone who started in 2010 to 1,000 euros. These injustices must finally be lifted. Only in this way will we regain the people's confidence in getting away from this vicious cycle of disrepute of the political system. So, to close, all this has to be done. The cost of this House must be streamlined, it must be reduced as much as possible by the spirit of justice and participation in the sufferings and burdens passed by the Greek people and by Members' wages, but the political system must also be restored. After of course I say that we will vote on the budget and the balance sheet, I am closing with a more technical look in relation to the budget. I said most of the time during the committee, and I was also called the 'SICE' by Mr Athanasios, my good colleague. I will say, however, one more thing: I think that the balance sheet should also have a description of long-term programmes, such as this very good programme for restoring buildings with a five-year, six-year targeting, depending on how large the programme is, with a objective, perhaps to reduce rents - or with whatever other objectives we put forward - so that the next President may be able to make some adjustments, but to commit and understand the multiannual nature and the multiannual timetable of some of these programmes which are of great importance to this House, and it is obviously decided that they should be started. In this way, I think that budgets will be better tied together over the years and the overall result will be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, special speaker from the Potami. The reason is the special speaker from the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitris Kammenos. Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a new Member of Parliament, I have the luck of participating in the public in the last eight months, nine months - if you wish - in my remarks, because it also relates to the preparation of balance sheets and the auditing of accounts. First, the Independent Greeks, in our report, make it clear that we are voting for the 2014 report and we are voting in favour of the 2016 budget. The numbers tell the truth. But many times the numbers don't tell the truth. I'm just going to make a few remarks. I will be extremely brief. The fact that some costs are being cut, as other Members have said, by 67% or close to 70% of Members' allowances is a good thing. But when we see all the codes, we should see where else we cut. We'll have to see it coded. Personally, without differentiating the total vote on the 2014 report, I would disagree with the EUR 235,000 reduction in the organisation of conferences and cultural events. A moment ago we applauded children who were and participated in the House for the Republic's Summer Workshop. That is to say, we're cutting costs of informing the young people from the Democrat Lab. Why? At the same time, there is the code CK 1400 ‘Procurement of footwear items’. Please, everyone read. Don't wait for the rapporteurs. They're in just Greek. I always say it, and I always say it in my work. Read and check! It says: "Procurement of foodstuffs, clothing, footwear, dependence" - as if we were going to the army - "focusing, camping and sport". All of this is 40,000 euros plus 5,000 euros for footwear. This code for me should - I beg your pardon very much - be abolished. The EUR 40,000, we must put them to the children who have to come to the House, learn about our democracy. I hope you will agree, and I tell the President who is present. Fuel supplies. Who do we make the contract for the supply of fuels? What invoice do we get? Are we getting from the ELPEs? Are we getting a preferential invoice? Does anyone check if we take the retail from an angle station or a tanker? I know very well - and I learned it as a Member - that the Security bodies, for example, put petrol on a special preferential invoice - so I must not even discuss it - at a gas station in Congress and another in Careas. The House, where is the oil supplied? Why do I, for example, have a fuel supply of more than EUR 300,000 per year? Do we check where they're going? I'd like to check it out. We are voting for it, but I would like us all to be involved in how we draw up - if you like - a budget - and I would like to propose to the President and to all Members - because when someone opens the book and read it, he will have a number of questions. With regard to other fees (Code 899), they are increased by 342,000 euros. It says that the credit is mainly entered to cover the operating costs of the television station, the rental of a television programme, subtitlement, compiling, and the costs of producers. In other words, the cost was EUR 836,000 and it is EUR 1,178 000 for the TV station in Parliament, for which we have all made our criticism in the last seven months, and I - if you like - as a new Member. But democracy gives us the right, the right and the obligation to criticise whatever we vote in this Parliament. I would at some point like to see the cost of Parliament's station, which has a separate cost, as we say in finance. Let's see what revenue it has, what costs, what advertising revenues, why is it 342 000 euros increasing its operating costs? I would agree with many of my colleagues that there is an indiscriminate populism, which I have experienced in my personal affairs. But after my personal affair, if you will, I see that the world, because many colleagues are plundering with the media - and I will come to this part about the media - made me think that I did not enter the Greek Parliament, but that I entered the Lords House! The House of Lords is not here! We're not Lords! I would argue with some of the SYRIZA colleagues who say that "the Prime Minister has money, let him tax and let his child go to the private kindergarten", as well as with other SYRIZA colleagues who said that "it is not about us in this particular amount, because we in SYRIZA have no money in the bank". The specific SYRIZA Members and all of us now have some money in the bank, because the Greek people are paying us, and this has to be done, and we have all advocated that. The unity and coherence of the Greek people at all levels rests with us Members and with the Bureau of Parliament. We must set a good example. I agree and as the President has said. And we were also proposing, if you like, that the 10% reduction in parliamentary compensation be reduced. We need to rationalise too many other costs. But here I would like to say that there is no unity and cohesion in society, if the Members themselves and in a popular synergy - and I am clear, I am not behind my words - for purely voting reasons they are populating on a channel. On this channel the teen and notorious journalist - and I am opening the parentheses I have made with my recommendation ten days ago - who has never been published 'from where you come from', who can take ten times as much money from what we get clean or under the table, with or without a service card, can charge a vehicle - offshore, SPV, Cyprus, Bulgaria and charge its station and tax it on a special tax scheme better than the rest of the Greeks. And we are talking about people who are supposed to represent and who are supposed to exercise control over parliamentary life. If it does not clarify the landscape in the permits of stations and in the published 'from where' journalists are concerned, we will never be able to escape populism and many of us of the three hundred people who are populating for personal reasons, wanting to do the good at the channels and the good at the voters and do not understand the danger to which we all enter. In this temple of democracy, we must all be proud and moved whenever we enter here, because we serve a purpose and a function and we must go out proud and walk on the sidewalk. We shouldn't go out and feel guilty. Feel guilty of what? Where, for example, do we get less or have more guilt or more dangers for our personal life, the life of our family, our children, our wife, our father and our relatives because we became MPs? Who gives colleagues and journalists the right to plunder against us for what is supposed to be the gains of Lords? I have heard about 10 and 15 000 euros and I cannot explain to them that this is not the amount and that is not the way it is. I wish they'd put us some revenue books on the bills. I spoke to Mr. Koutsuko. I couldn't agree more. It's common sense. Let us see in the cross-party the tax regime that will now govern the taxation of Greek Members. Let everything be clear. But I don't want to pay someone's shoes for five grand. I don't want to pay the credit because we don't go to any wars for another 40 grand. They'll have to be cut. Also, when we reduce rent costs, as Harry said before, in the preparation of the budget we have to see how we can rationalise and do, if you like, more reasonablely, because these are the costs for which we will be controlled. If we cut 2 or 3 million a year out of 133 million is a very important amount. But if we cut off only one code, to plunder - and justly, if you want to - cut off parliamentary compensation - and let the code of democracy and the call of children learn about parliamentism and democracy by 235 000 and pay 5 000 shoes, we are unreasonable. Forgive me for the tension, but I don't want you to be viewed as irrational. Please read the codes. We can all fix it together. And I ask that the irrational costs be cut. I would also like all of us together to vote and at some point to come to an agreement on how journalists should have published 'from the outset' and published works contracts. I am very clear and I know very well what I am talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u128	We also thank the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitris Kammenos. I will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Central Banks Union, Mr George Karras, for twelve minutes. Immediately after that, the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, will take the floor, and then we will move on to those of Parliament's representatives who want to be seated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u129	Does the President of Parliament want to precede, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u130	No, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Reading the accounts and the budget, we have to say this: we are seeing positive steps in the current situation that we are currently in Greece. It is a positive step that any attempt is being made to reduce costs. It is a good thing that any attempt is being made to further rationalise expenditure. I would therefore say that the Parliament's budget, which we shall of course be voting in favour, as in the report, would have a little more detailed analysis. I heard Mr Kammenos and went my mind from now on: All the companies in Greece, even the smaller ones, are subject to accounting standards. So let's sit here and see some accounting standards. And I do not say that in the form of bureaucratic employment. I say this because these standards often lead to the rationalisation of expenditure and the possibility of limiting it. So I think that both the President and the Bureau and the groups of this House should slowly enter that logic. I am not saying that we should follow the standards in the commercial field. However, the House itself can make its ranks, create internal standards, so that the budget and balance sheet can also bring about real cost savings. I shall say something, historically, at this point. We're talking about a cut in parliamentary compensation. The Centres' association is a pretext that it had also raised the question of limiting the remuneration, compensation for the elected representatives - not only of the MPs, but also of the mayors and of all those who exercise public authority - in the sense that we should gradually compensate for the opportunities offered by the economic conditions of those who pay. Mayors, please, have an escalation depending on the population. It's right. But you can look at it again. So in the case of the limitation of parliamentary compensation, indeed the Central Association sees it positively and follows it. In fact, in our election programme we had spoken of more drastic restrictions. We all remember it. But I'll say something about a maliciousness. I would like you to allow me, Mr President, even if it is thought at the moment that I am going out of the question. How did this populism begin, this conversation about Members, that they are making a lot of money and that they do not fulfil their obligations? It started in 2001 with a bad constitutional review when the well-known court for judges was created. We must remember these things and talk about them many times. In 2001, therefore, from nowhere, the Court of Appeal was created, which concerned actions for damages against judges. What did the Constitution Review say in 2001? That the financial differences, wage differences, the judges' rights, are also dealt with by the Court of Appeals of Caesars. Did he say so? Did he say so wrong? What happened then? Most of us know that. The President of the Committee on Telecommunications and Posts - and this is a classic example - out of the law, apart from predictions, and rushed by the group judges, filed legal proceedings in the courts and received the increase. How can that be justified? By the fact that someone was getting a higher salary than them. But then there was this: since the other power was legislative, the Members had to follow. In fact they could not have less compensation than the judges. Here's the thing. Instead of the gentlemen coming and trying to decide and say that the 10,000 or 15 000 euros received by the chairman of the committee and paying him the salary due to illegal increases are illegal, we have come to give rises to the judges, eventually increases to the Members and what are they saying outside? On the other hand, they say that the crisis is due to both the expenditure incurred by the Parliament and the Members and a thousand other things. I think, therefore, that when the time comes for the constitutional review is right, the House should also see these issues, because it has finally commissioned the exercise of a policy - not the award of justice - of wages and allowances to persons who are unfit. Of course, any reduction in Members' compensation is, at the present time, necessary. But I want to say something: we are all standing in the famous Z resolution of 1975. And I see - with the little experience I have in Athensis - that this is followed by a trial of the Gospel. Mr President, is it time for the House to abolish this 75-75 resolution - this House has this power both with the Constitution and with the Rules of Procedure - and to enter into modern and modern regulations? I tried last night - and I must say I could not - to see what is true of this 1975 resolution and what is not the case. What did I see? I have seen that the amendment proposal is coming today and says, 'We repeal Article 8(b)'. I have to say, however, that Article 8 does not apply to any legal information bank. It doesn't matter, of course. But we must say - why the debate must be held in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - that this resolution must be removed from the middle. Something must come clear, because it creates an insecurity both in society and in the Members of Parliament and does not promote the democratic "belief" and the Greek people. It sounds like strong populism, that we are the fortunemakers, we are perhaps the favoured ones. So I'll tell you that we're not in the end. For what? We do not have a clear tax system. In 2008, if I'm not mistaken, a newer constitutional review came. What is this constitutional review doing? It says that the incompatibilities of the Member's work towards another profession are being removed. There, then, is the complete confusion of things. Because I'm a professional lawyer, I have to say it. How I am going to tax on parliamentary compensation and on the income that I have had up to any of my free professions, I do not know that. I am a Member of Parliament, and I do not know what the tax system is for me, no matter how many times I have tried. I therefore propose that in future discussions within the committee we look at these things, because that is how a relief comes, and, if you like, we are also leaving a lot of populism. What citizen can read today the resolution and understand what he wants? You know what he's gonna say? He will say: 'They have done them to each other and they hide them to support their prerogatives'. I must say that I have not been able to understand what is going on and what is not the case with that. The country is being shaken today. It is particularly tempted by the budgetary crisis and the deficits. So, in every attempt of this House, it must be crystal clear and crystal clear that no suspicion, any malicious behaviour, and no ill-consideredness, is left in the world. There should be nothing left beyond transparency. Why? As has been rightly pointed out, the only ones for whom the "subjects" are MPs are published and posted. It's all over the place. We have not seen any more 'from the outset'. So, so that I don't trouble you any more and I'm tired of you, I sum up: Yes, we're positive. We are voting in favour of the 2014 report. We are voting in favour of the 2016 budget. We are also voting in favour of the reduction in parliamentary compensation, but in the position that what I said in my speech must be dealt with, it will have to be done very soon so that we can get out of this Chamber today - the people are outside and protest - with a high head. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u132	Thank you Mr George Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that many of my fellow Members are missing, because through this debate they could get to know a few or a lot of things, so that they can genuinely handle and inform the citizens or the media, when they are asked to do so and not look like they don't know. On all the questions or questions, there are answers. If we were all in committee, we could also ask there. There was a very good meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the budget. That would have been where it all came from. My proposal is to have more meetings of this committee, to have the opportunity to have access to and to have Members involved with initiatives - as proposed - throughout the costing of specific services of this House, the Foundation, the channel, international relations, etc. Even if they want to be present and participate through the committee in the preparation of the budget. Let me say that it is very right and Mr Theocharis' proposal for a programming of what will happen that will not be enough in one year. Because we are indeed forced here to talk about the disposal of investment and other initiatives, which are obviously for a period of two years, at least three years in total or also to participate in the NRP programmes which are four years and five years, which should in a global way be mentioned in order to follow up in this debate, sometimes even during the different periods of this House. Before going to a number of general issues which I would like to raise, I would like to give three clarifications which are clear: As far as KA 0844 is concerned and the reduction of EUR 140,000 is concerned, this is not to say that the Foundation did not pay the initiative of the Adolescent Parliament this year, but the House from its budget. It will therefore be removed, as we have said in committee, from the grant given to the Foundation. The second question relates to the CA 1511 and the EUR 90,000. I would like to say that the oil and fuels are being taken by the House in the way in which the ELAS is taking them, that is, as previously introduced as a proposal. And thirdly, there is an obligation for KK 1470 -- in relation to these 40,000- and it relates to sixty specific individuals, gardeners, cleaners, curators, special guards, etc. It is the annual help compared to what is mentioned here and here, i.e. shoes, gloves, etc., which applies to all services that have such needs. I am now going to some general issues, because I think the debate is too serious and must leave something behind. We are also seen publicly and journalists have shown a positive, important interest in this debate over the past few days, and I think we should feed it in the right way. A similar, very important debate had taken place when we discussed the state grant of the parties a year ago, if I remember correctly. I believe no one in this Chamber wants us to go to S.A. parties, anonymous companies. In other words, all the constitutional provisions which exist to support the Parliamentary Republic, the parties and the MPs must be supported so that they can do their job, which is very important. I tell you this because, for example, the grant of the parties - I am pointing out correctly - is about 60% cut, perhaps more. And that - because I want to be straight, honest and open - for those parties that had not been in the crisis - to use this expression that we use for natural persons too - with debts or excessive debts in relation to their real economic situation, it is something that has led these parties - and rightly so - to match the current situation. But at least two parties that were in post-political government management positions have led them to a perfection and a complete deadlock in terms of safeguarding and regulating their finances. These parties are well known. I am referring to the PASOK and the New Democracy. The members of these parties themselves have placed themselves on this issue. It is right, however, now that the grant is now small or, in any case, it is the one that corresponds to the crisis where the world gets what it takes. On the other hand, the question of Members' pensions has been closed. There's no more for them after 2012. But here there is a contradiction, because, of course, the incompatibility has come, but for some people who would, or could, or would, want the people to be, several years of MPs and are not retired or something else, it is clear that they then have a minority in their way of life. And that should not be dealt with from a high point of view and outside. I of the first meetings I have had was with the honourable Members - some of them had twenty years in this Chamber - who are the Pensioners' Association and who have various activities in general in society, and I understand that this is a very difficult matter. It is not something that one can pass, say, as if nothing had happened. And I repeat that I say it in his comfort that most of us here - and I - are after May 2012 or something. We're not quasi-participating here today. Today we are discussing politically support for parliamentaryism, support for democracy, to pass on some concepts within society that are positive. Of course - and I come to another serious issue - it is a political matter. In other words, the unreliability of the political system consists of political causes, decisions of the political system, operating ways and a thousand other two things. And they are not treated by the constant decline - until they disappear - of whatever possibilities are given so that the Member can do his job. In other words, the question of interactive, political money, the fact that we are not doing what we call 'avoided', as there is no function that brings it to the surface, illegal enrichment, were present in the post-government period and, in particular, now, in the crisis, they have entered the whole world - and rightly so - both political forces and society. However, it is very wrong to deal with a policy, with a practice and - let me say it - with an ideology which, in the end, seeks sergeant - so that we can get together to save our homeland. I will not say from the Step what the parties call it, the party executives what they call it, the politicians what they call conceived or the functions of the House. That's what he's driving? To the sergeant. Yes, sir. At the president's office, you should know that the junta would take out its forced laws. Sometimes I tell everyone who comes. It's sorrow. That's a sad thing. It is also not right that there should be certain inequalities, which are also considered normal. I have read that a very respectable category of officials, in this case the judges, have taken to Mr Papagelopoulos an initiative on what I had stated from this position and, indeed, a position of reflection in general terms of the Conference of Presidents, namely that there must be other 'outside' than these Members. The government has taken steps to ban this, in any case, with a specific reasoning, as had been done in 2014. I want to tell you directly that this is a conquest of transparency. It is a conquest for the political system, for all politicians. In fact, the Kaklamani Act since 1974 is a conquest, and all this must apply. But there must be no inequality in this matter. What do I mean? We have within the thousands of 'understood' - either in which they do, or do, but which are sampled for those other than the political system - specific categories of senior officials - for example those headed by public supply committees, mayors of large cities, managers of agencies, senior police officers, senior and supreme judges, etc. - a whole system of very responsible officials, men and women who operate within the framework of powers and democracy. The problem is to distinguish oneself from the whole. I do not come back to raising a question about him or the other. I've already told you six or seven charges. Let the government see it, let us see it as a parliament. However, it is not right to distinguish from the whole. I mean the highest. The same applies to issuers, etc. We're not talking about the journalist or the first judge or the simple cop. For God's sake! These are thousands and gather each year. There's a sample check. What else could be done? However, I am talking about an environment where, for the superiors and the superiors, all of us who are ministering to these powers, in a way which, of course, minimises the risk of targeting - I mean, in relation to personal elements, a model of signature, etc., there have already been discussions on them - that there should be an obligation to suspension and knowledge of the assets. It's not right from all of this to pick up the three hundred, every three hundred. Some colleagues were only from May to June 2012 in here, for one and a half days or two, and after three months there is a debate on their finances in the public sphere. We have to deal with it. Well, I'm putting it on, and I'm not putting it personally. I know very well. I repeat that these have nothing to do with coalitions or anything else, they have the defence of democracy in the whole - not just democracy here - on those who are working and thinking about other things. Let me now speak with regard to wages and taxation. There was indeed one intervention. The expenditure section is on these two issues and is done for the first time. In other words, as far as the basic salary is concerned, there had been no impairment within the crisis, which is why there is this 10%. Also, to say about the tax. Indeed, we have said that a committee will also be set up to see how exactly - let us say - this is going to take place, that of the tax system, I mean also taking account, if necessary, of costs, etc. This will be studied. They have expressed their willingness to participate fellow Members in order to have a result in time. We were among the few categories we mentioned. Remember how many times we talked here about shipowners and others and about others that there was no simulation of the tax situation. They have been and are two serious things which, in public opinion, have been captured and understood - let us say - of privileged treatment. The others do not accept them, that is to say, having five partners - which will be four of the next summit, namely the Second Session, and with a second-level teacher, from what has been proposed, I mean from time to time - or having issues, let us say the subject of cars, leasing, etc. These are matters which, in fact, at least help - and they are in all the parliaments - the work of the Member. I say, however, that there was indeed a fingerprint that was negative to public opinion, which we are now curing. But I want to be very clear. This must be known and I am sure that tomorrow it will be shown. The rapporteurs have said so too. I want to repeat it. The reduction in parliamentary wages, if we had followed the law, and it was the one that had to be legally, according to the resolution 'tadas', as you said before, is of 38% in the main and immediate nature. Because it is 28% that the Greek Parliament, in its ruling twice, did not monitor the recovery of the wage losses that were borne by the judges and the President of the Ice Bay, who, in the midst of a crisis, also through the House of Commons - and rightly for their own part or for other aspects such as pensions and others - gave their opinion as they did. Then the parliamentary salary did not follow it. So now it should be 28% over. And it's a 10% reduction that we make in addition. It is 38% below what is foreseen by the law and the resolution of Postpopulation. This should be clear and well-known, namely that not only does the Parliament's budget have 40% in the crisis, without what I see and what we know, issues - let us say - which are related to contact with society and others that have been declining or legislative work, other things that also apply to the income of the Member's basic salary. From there on, there are reductions in this percentage, which have been made to the allowances and to all that were pre-crisis, such as compensation for committees, etc. That's right. Let's make up our minds. Nobody's pushing us. We're not subjecting any kind of pressure. At the same time, however, I believe that we must very clearly defend the Parliamentary Republic and the functioning of parliamentarians and parties as such in the whole. I am not talking at all about how Parliament's parties, such as the JRC - more than all of them seem - as SYRIZA too, but also about other parties and other MPs, are strengthening their parties at a rate of 5% and 10% and reaching 40%, 50% or more. Let me say that this is not about society, but it is real as a matter. The parties are coming to the House. There are no Persians coming, no people in society in general who have made a career and how nice to bring the faces. These would be "the Party S.A." and "Buli S.A.". That is not the case, and our Constitution is clear. The House is composed of parties, which come with their programme, their statutes and the obligations of Members of Parliament. Therefore, the real situation of the Member should also be known in society, that is, the real income situation. And from there on, society must have the demand for full transparency, for posting, for function even of the "subjects" in the "relevant", for stopping interactivity, for political money and for all those who have actually led to a degree of political unreliability. [[At this point the end of the speaking time bell of the President of Parliament is being alarmed.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me for longing. On the whole of the budget there is the footprint of an attempt to open up to society. In other words, the reduction of expenditure or savings in relation to rents and others - which the rapporteurs and Mrs Vultesis have mentioned in detail - we are trying to do - and we are going to have a further debate on the relevant Committee of Parliament to help the House in order to help this House to keep it open to society, as far as its creative powers are concerned, spiritual forces, publications, events, aid and assistance to heal things that are'saving', as the refugee or other in parliamentary diplomacy have just now been said, where precisely because the country is in the critical phase that it is in, we are keeping the funds and stressing through the friendship committees, but also through the interparliamentary associations, etc. the presence of the Greek Members. It is a great deal of action that this House can have and which, in my opinion, is obliged to take, in addition to criticism, objections or rejections that may have parts of our people for policies that are being pursued or carried out, I think that the requirement of society as a whole is for the House to do a project that is far beyond a typical, handler, management of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u134	Thank you to the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolao Voutsi. We have a speaker at first, Mr Christos Antoniou, from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Antoniou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing Parliament's budget for 2016. The committee responsible and the President of Parliament have made considerable, ambitious and generous efforts to rationalise and reduce expenditure, in order for the House to be in line with the current economic reality in our country. The reductions in expenditure for 2016 are carried out mainly by reducing parliamentary compensation and other expenditure linked to the parliamentary status, but without cancelling and making it difficult for Members to do so. More specifically, it is reduced by EUR 2.054,000, that is by 10%, the parliamentary compensation for 2016. This reduction also brings together various other reductions. For example, EUR 100,000 of Members' remuneration is reduced by the abolition of the remuneration for participation in the Summer Sections, by EUR 313,000 from a reduction in the Members' organisational allowance, by EUR 106,000 from a reduction in contributions in favour of the EPPY, or from payroll and other Members' benefits. Parliament's funds are also reduced by EUR 580,000 by a reduction in the remuneration for new entrants, by EUR 419,000 by a reduction due to the fact that newly introduced scientific associates are not payroll beneficiaries, by EUR 450,000 by a reduction in the remuneration for overtime work of parliamentary scientific associates, by EUR 299 000 by a reduction in the cost of movement of guard officers and scientific co-workers, by EUR 223 000 by a reduction in overtime of officials assigned by secondment to the offices of MPs. We have a savings of EUR 655,000 from the reduction in the budget for the rental of cars used by Members. The fall is at the 20% level. We have a reduction for Members' telephone charges by EUR 261 000. There are some reductions in Parliament's buildings in relation to cleanliness and some other costs that have been saved, as well as savings in buildings by EUR 323,000 due to the renegotiation of the rental contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, the government and the President of Parliament, within the framework of the possible and without impeding the functioning of the Parliament and the work of the Members of Parliament, has made an excellent effort to be consistent with the objective of reducing expenditure in line with the difficult economic situation experienced by Greek citizens and by Greek society. In this context, I am voting for the 2016 Parliament budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Antonio. As far as I know, no one in Parliament has asked for the floor. Therefore, if there is no objection, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Expenditure Report of the Parliament for the financial year 2014 is adjourned, on the expenditure budget of the House for the financial year 2016 and on the amendment of the Z's Resolution on the reduction of parliamentary compensation and their vote will be taken separately. Does the House accept the amendment to the resolution on the reduction of parliamentary compensation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u137	Consequently, the amendment of the Z' Resolution on the reduction of parliamentary compensation was unanimously accepted and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u138	Asked by the House: Can the Expenditure Report of the House of Parliament for the financial year 2014 be accepted at the expense, results from its use and totality?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u140	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u141	Consequently, the Expenditure Report of the House of Representatives of the financial year 2014 on costs, results from its use and overall accepted in a single majority debate and reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u142	Asked by this House: Can the expenditure budget of the Parliament for the financial year 2016 be accepted at the expense, results from its use and totality?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u145	Consequently, the Expenditure Budget of the Parliament for the financial year 2016 was accepted in principle, by categories of costs and by a majority in all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, please authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u147	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-18-S1-commons.u148	With the consent of the House at 13.20 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 19 November 2015 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
