ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the special sitting of the Greek Parliament is opened. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: In accordance with Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the minutes of the Committee of the Regions of Tuesday, 10 March 2015 were ratified by the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the proposal from the President of the Parliament for the re-establishment, reconstructing and upgrading of the Intergroup Committee of Parliament for the vindication of German allowances, the repayment of the loan and the reimbursement of the stolen archaeological treasures.]] [[APPROVAL OF THE PRESIDENT OF BULLETIN Mr ZOY KONSTANTOPOULOPOULOU FOR THE ELECTRONIC PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC Mr PAYLOPOULOS AND CONTRIBUTION OF THE ECOLABEL]] The only item on the agenda is the vow, in accordance with Article 33 of the Constitution, of the President of the Hellenic Republic, Mr Procopios Pavlopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that immediately after the special session of the Greek Parliament of 18 February 2015, at which the President of the Republic was elected and in accordance with the mandate given by this House, the President of Parliament, Zoi Konstantopoulou, accompanied by the members of the Bureau of Parliament, visited the elected President of the Republic, Mr Prokopios Pavlos and announced to him by the entire House the outcome of the vote and his election as President of the Hellenic Republic. The President of Parliament, Zoe Konstantopoulou, on behalf of the House, addressed the President of the Republic, Mr Prokopios Pavlopoulou, who replied to this address. The two texts of address and opposition - they will be read and recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: "Mr. Pavlopoulou, With a sense of great democratic honour and in my capacity as President of the Greek and Greek Parliament, I formally announce to you that the National Representation with two hundred three positive votes has given you next President of the Republic and has given you the responsibility that accompanies the supreme state at a critical moment for the people, for society, for the country, for democracy. At this critical moment, you are being called upon to perform a democratic, patriotic, legal and social duty. You are invited to renew the supreme state institution that you will incarnation and which many powers in the past have sought and succeeded in working or deactivating. You are invited to set up a new model of state power, with determination and unreserved defence of society, of homeland, of democracy, of fundamental human rights and of freedoms, which you have been teaching for a decade and which are the core of our democratic culture. You are invited to symbolize the new political and state spirit that condensates the principles and values for which our people and society are fighting today. You are invited to defend and guarantee the democratic functioning of the culture and the separation of powers. You are invited by your actions, symbolically capture the commitment to dignity, justice, social promotion and true democracy. As President of Parliament, I am convinced that you will not reserve Parliament's surprises for depriving it of its democratic role and that you will function in good coexistence with Parliament as a guarantor of democracy, that you will show a commitment to democracy, popular sovereignty, national independence, collective dignity, human rights, that you will have the courage to say not abroad and internally, when and wherever necessary, and that you will not hesitate to activate direct democratic referendum procedures or to refer back to unconstitutional legislation, that you will participate in the claims of our people, in demanding that the Memorandum be removed, but also in demanding that German compensation and corrections be made, and that you will not accept to become an executive body of anyone. I exchange this belief, not only from the appreciation on your face and on your academic, scientific and social path but also from a leading moment in your political path when democracy was tested. On the night of December 6, 2008, when police officers murdered the 15-year-old student Alexander Gregopoulou and activated mints, state, para-state mechanisms to cover the murder, you were the one with determination and a sense of democratic duty, stopped the dark scratches. As Minister of the Interior of the then government, you said immediately and clearly that such an event is unacceptable to a democracy under any circumstances and was a compass of democratic vigilance for the citizens. In the difficult times that we are going through and those that are coming, I wish you and I look forward to the same democratic reflexes that have been activated and inspired by your attitude on the night of 6 December 2008, always being activated in defence of the civilization, society, the weak, the victims, the democracy. I wish you wholeheartedly good success in your new duties! ZONSTANTOU’ Objection by the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr PAYLOPOULOU, to the President-in-Office of the Council Madam President, thank you very much. Thank you, the Bureau of Parliament and through you, I would like to thank all Members of Parliament for the highest honour, but a honour which, from now on, has become a maximum debt. And this debt is defined on the one hand by the duty of the citizen and, on the other hand, by the Constitution itself. These are the provisions which determine the oath of the President of the Republic. It is the four axes on which the President of the Republic has to move and I undertake to move. First of all, the irresponsible respect of the Constitution, without any discounts and without any kind of lack of courage. Secondly, it is the defence of the country's independence and integrity. Thirdly, it is the protection of the rights of Greeks and Greeks. Fourthly, it is the service of the public interest. This public interest today, in these circumstances, is essentially concentrated on the need to defend the sacrifices of our people and to get out as quickly as possible of this nightmare that we have been experiencing in recent years, a nightmare, which has affected the basic values on which we rely as a nation and as a people and which the Constitution defines and is the value of man and the free development of his personality. In this fight we are giving as a people, we are not on our own. We are giving him to all the peoples of Europe, because the very same struggles exist everywhere. This is a fair struggle, not only for our people but for Europe itself, because through this struggle, we are also defending Europe, as it was imagined, founded and cultivated, especially in the early years, its founders. So we return to roots, for when you rely on your roots, you can serve the future with more certainty. In this context, I will move. I will always be at the service of Parliament and will serve what Parliament itself, expressing the Greek people, imposes on me. And be sure that, as throughout my life, I didn't make any discounts or travel with a flag of convenience, I'll do the same until the last day I'm in that post. As I said again, it's not a right, it's a debt. Thank you very much.”
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-13-S1-commons.u2	Please begged that the second Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Balafas, be accompanied to the Chamber of Parliament by the Makarios Archbishop of Athens and all Greece Mr. Ieronymou and his accompaniments to the Holy Synod of the Church of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-13-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for the arrival of the new President of the Republic, Mr Prokopios Pavlopoulos, and we are adjourned for a moment so that Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras and the President of Parliament, Mr Zoi Konstantopoulou, can welcome the President of the Republic, Mr Prokopios Pavlopoulos, on behalf of the National Representation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-13-S1-commons.u4	Repeated adjournment. Ladies and gentlemen, the elected President of the Republic enters the Chamber, Mr Prokopios Pavlopoulos, accompanied by Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras and the President of Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou. [[18.20' entered the Chamber, the elected President of the Republic, Mr Prokopios Pavlopoulos, accompanied by Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras and the President of Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulos.]] [[Upright Members applaud vividly and protractedly]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Excellency President of the Republic, Mr Prokopios Pavlopoulos, who has been elected by the House with her vote at the sitting on 18 February 2015, will give the oath laid down in Article 33(2) of the Constitution. Please beg the Makariot Archbishop of Athens and all Greece Mr. Hirinos and the Holy Synod to return the settled ties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-13-S1-commons.u5	Please, Sire, go to the Chair for the vow of the President of the Republic, Mr Prokopios Paulopoulos. [[At this point the Macedonian Archbishop of Athens and all Greece is in the Chair.]] Please, Prime Minister, go to the Chair for the vow of the President of the Republic, Mr Prokopios Paulopoulos. [[At this point, the Prime Minister is in the Chair]] Please, Your Honor, Mr President of the Republic, put your hand in the Holy Gospel and repeat the oath that Makariot will read, and I ask him to read the text of the oath. [[The Macedonian Archbishop of Athens and all Greece reads the oath, repeated by the President of the Republic:]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousia and Indivisible Trinity to guard the Constitution and the laws, to ensure their faithful respect, to defend the national independence and integrity of the country, to protect the rights and freedoms of the Greeks and to serve the general interest and progress of the Greek people".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-13-S1-commons.u6	Worthful, worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-13-S1-commons.u7	Please begged that the second Vice President of the Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Balafas, should take the Makariot Archbishop of Athens and all Greece Mr. Hieronym and his accompaniments to the Holy Synod of the Church of Greece. [[Time 18.36' leaves the Chamber the Makariot Archbishop of Athens and all Greece Mr. Ieronyos and the accompanying members of the Holy Synod]] Ladies and gentlemen, please authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-13-S1-commons.u8	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that a wreath will be tabled by the President of the Republic, Mr Prokopio Pavlopoulou, immediately and please, ladies and gentlemen, to go to the Monument of the Unknown Soldier. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-13-S1-commons.u9	With the consent of the House, 18.40 minutes will be closed.
