ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The Prime Minister, pursuant to Rules 129 and 132 of the Rules of Procedure, will answer two topical questions. The second question will be discussed under No 457/21/28-7-2015 of the President of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Group, Mr. Fofi Gennamas, on the recent statements by the former Minister of Finance, Mr. Yani Varoufakis, according to which the government's plan B was drawn up. We can - I think - start. The President has the floor, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, for two minutes in her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, I'm glad you're here. I sought your presence today in the Greek Parliament, because I think you should make clear and clear answers today about the great political scandal that has erupted the former Minister of Finance. As he claims, he operated on your command. In fact, he designed and carried out a project to circumvent state services and access to sensitive personal data. There may, of course, also be offences against the currency and the national economy. I think it is your duty today to light up these dark corridors of the para-state labyrinth that Mr Varoufakis confessed. His confession reveals dangerous manipulations and claims that all of this was in your knowledge. At the same time, I think that all of this explains the paradoxical tactics of the government for the past six months, creative ambiguity, time squeeze and, of course, the referendum and the disastrous outcome of your negotiation that reached the Graxit border. And your silence, Prime Minister, has been at least alarming since this scandal broke out. We directly ask what your orders were. What's your involvement? What were the updates you received all along? What did he do in your knowledge after all? Did you just coexist with the party and the government with the drachma party or plan and jointly implement its main programme? The questions, Prime Minister, remain indifferent and must you tell us what this group was working in secret, as Mr Varoufakis says? What was the contents of Plan B? Because with all this foreign policy you have put the country at serious risk not only of the economy, but also of the geostrategic interests of the country, and you have isolated the country from its stable and serious allies. You brought Grexit to our court, Prime Minister. Plan B and the incomprehensible, as I said before, a referendum that you introduced to the Greek people in order to escape from the negotiation were parts of the same puzzle, components of the same project, which, as Mr Varoufakis explains, did not even start in February when you chose an agreement without money, but since December, even before you became a government, sought alternative sources of funding, ignoring the correlations and international equilibrium. You risked what we claimed our interlocutors to respect, namely that Greece's problems should be solved within a united Europe, within the Eurozone. You have put this in question yourself. You have reduced and weakened the international position of the country through the tactics of your Minister that you presented as a dreadful asset. You said that, which seems to have eliminated the closure of the banks. Or wasn't it just that objective, but was it something more? Did you finally change your mind at the last minute? Did you finally run into two boats and how much did this matter cost the Greek people? Fourteen billion, which is the package that is being loaded, the third memorandum, the hardest, which has your own indelible signature, or forty-five billion together with the costs and damages the banks have suffered? Today you must be clear and clear. You must also submit the documents we have requested for you concerning the functioning of this subcommittee. Please, Prime Minister, in your answer, do not tell us about defence tactics and impact study, as the Maxime cycles leak. It would be - I think - much more honorable to the Greek people, after what has been done, to tell us if your strategy is to keep Greece as an equal member in Europe and in the Eurozone and if you want and you can serve this objective.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am pleased to be coming back to the Prime Minister's time. Unfortunately, because of the prolonged negotiation and the absence of any questions that have another topic - because it was in force and, as you can see, it was not appropriate, while it was in force, to answer questions - after a long time I have come back to a procedure, which I consider to be very essential for the Parliamentary Republic and for dialogue within Parliament. And I want to repeat that, as far as I am concerned, I will always try as far as possible to respond. Madame birthday, I heard your question. You wanted to pre-empt my answer. Let me answer as I know and tell my truths, as I always do all this time. I am, of course, watching - and I am not silent, so I am here today, in order to respond directly, clearly - to an effort that is curious and unprecedented, I would say, to target the negotiating process, the effort of the government for five months to bring about the best possible outcome. And, of course, it is understandable that some should try to target this effort precisely because they feel that in their own years not only did they not negotiate, not only did they not try, not only did they not actually reach the limit in order to salvage what was possible to survive in a heterogeneous negotiation process and relationship, but they were taken without any objections being raised by all the partners and creditors. On the occasion of this attempt, of course, the statements made by the former Minister of Finance, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, that, on my own mandate, he set up an emergency plan processing team - contingency plan, as defined - in the event that negotiations with the partners would lead to a dead end with a responsibility, obviously, of extreme conservative circles in Europe. All this orchestra of statements, all this attempt at consciously distorting political positions and actions would indeed be fun if it did not hide clear political purposes and were not dangerous. And it is absolutely dangerous, because it does not only want to criminalise the self-evident effort of the government to prepare for a possible accident and to defend the country and the citizens if the negotiations collapsed and prevailed the extreme views of conservative circles that they wanted - and even want - to lead Greece to ruthless bankruptcy. But at the same time it is dangerous because they cultivate a logic which wants the country to go as a sheep for slaughter in the battle for negotiation. And it's dangerous because the fight for the negotiation isn't over. It will continue and continue. This is, of course, the policy that all the previous governments have realised and are committed to, building up this whole political and economic deadlock that our Government has inherited. But let's see things in turn. The country's exit plans from the euro, Mrs. Genemas, have never been processed. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer on this matter. You should have invoked us today, whether we had not or had not attempted to draw up such a plan. Instead of looking for responsibilities for the Grexit project on the Greek side, you should address those who prepared Grexit rather than us. The European and global press, with news on the preparation of Grexit projects, on the part of the institutions involved in the negotiation. Why are you addressing the Greek Government? You have MEPs in the European Parliament. Get to the Commission. Have you not heard, Madam President, about the Plan B of the thousand pages of the Commission, which have written newspapers and magazines of undeniable validity, such as the SPIEGEL or the FINANCIAL TIMES? If you haven't heard, let me remind you. For the first time, it had been officially said that the Commission is preparing such a plan not now, but in 2012, Commissioner Carel De Gucht at the time. This plan, Mrs Yunker, is constantly being updated and its existence accepted by the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, two days after the referendum on 7 July. I would remind you that at that time, in particular, he stated: 'The Commission has drawn up a detailed plan for Grexit, a plan for the whole area'. Ask them - are you asking us? - to explain to you what the plan of the thousand pages is? What does it involve? Or, in any case, ask the German Government, the German Treasury will explain to you what this plan is, which, incidentally, always says that it remains at the table. Why are you asking us? And if it is not enough for you all to refresh your memory, mentioning the statements made by the President of Eurogroup, Mr Düsselblum, after the meeting in Riga on 25 April, who said that some ministers expressed their concern about the lack of progress in Greece and asked for consultation on a B project. In a word, 'project B' referred to the Slovenian Minister for Finance after that Eurogroup. So if, Mrs Genuine, our partners and lenders were prepared or better prepared - and they said so, and they declared it well in public! - a Grexit plan, should we, as a government, not plan our defences on the possibility that this threat, which we thought would not happen? Not only should we have had the right to do so, we had an obligation to the citizens, the workers, in the country to prepare for such a potential. And I honestly don't understand exactly what you're wrong with. Or rather I fully understand the political feasibility of the distraction you are trying today, but that is another matter. We'll talk about it later, maybe. To give you an example, it is as if a country were in threat of warfare, to be known that there is a great possibility of hostile forces being evacuated to the Patriarchal Territories and you to accuse the staff of the defense as a pro-war, because it was planning the order of the country's defence in such a case. What you're doing is really out and beyond all logic! So you ask me if I had given an order. Of course, Mrs. Generation. I myself personally commanded the Minister of Finance to set up a task force to process a defence plan in the event of an emergency. I'd be politically naive and irresponsible if I didn't. Is that for you, that I ordered a processing order as an emergency plan for the country's defence, is it a sign that I wanted the emergency? Madame Genuine, I'm sorry, but the political feasibility of your arguments is superfluous. It is at least a comedian to discover a political scandal, and indeed a great political scandal, in a government's self-evident act to prepare for any possibility in the course of a tough negotiation, when it was even evident to everyone that the other side's attitude was becoming more and more aggressive. However, it is perfectly understandable that you consider the preparation of the government to be a political scandal for any possibility, since your party, as it governs, Mrs Gemmas, has never been prepared for anything. You have never negotiated for anything and represented the good and obedient students of the troika with great willingness, not only to accept the ownership of the programmes that have been submitted to you - they were not yours - but you have in the end, in the process of the overall transformation of a socialist party that has become a social democrat and now it is neoliberal, your memorial ideology. You told us, I remember then, that the Vice-President of the Government told us that the memorandum was a blessing and that if it were not there, we had to invent them ourselves. And maybe that's why you're now asking us to say the same thing. But we don't do that for you. To close this brief position, I would like to ask you, Madam President of PASOK, Madam Gennamata, the next time you look for scandals and for possible ending illegal acts, first look at your party and the governments that preceded this government, not the SYRIZA and ANEL government, not the Varoufaki for scandals. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So if you want to look for submarine scandals, in the case of the cover-up and concealing the Lagard list, in the case of the second bank recapitalisation, in the case of the PSI that cost the insurance funds 25 billion. If you want to look for scandals, look into the case of the sea-savings of the Agricultural Bank, which have basically destroyed one of the main public pillars of the banking system and which today is the day when justice breathes, it concerns the public prosecutors. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Look into the case of real estate transfers from the GOD, which even with the immunities that you have voted for in order to be able undisturbed to do what they want, today when justice breathes, finds the way for the courts. There to look for scandals and criminal responsibilities of Ministers, not for the government that has fought for the fairs of the Greek people. If you want, for all of this and other things that I have not mentioned, you can also ask members of the governments in which you participated. They'll know more than I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. The President of PASOK, Mr Genomes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I have observed the position of the Prime Minister, I have the impression that he feels that yesterday's Central Committee has not been completed. Today's meeting is the Greek Parliament and is directed through us to the Greek people. Because he said he'd tell his truths, that's what I have to say. I heard him say the other day that he never said he'd tear the memos. If you run the internet, you will see that there are infinite locations. I will remind you of one at the "NATIONS" in May 2014, when you said, Prime Minister, that you will tear the Memorandum down and it will be noon and it will be the first day the Left Government will take office. These are your truths, Prime Minister. You also said that you would unilaterally delete the debt, that the IMF will leave here - none of it has been done - that the troika will be gone, which has returned after the ravages and branches. You are talking about negotiation when, before taking over the government, the famous e-mail Hardouvelis was talking about 1 billion euros, about primary surpluses and you have brought a tough memorandum with 14 billion euros, unfair, completely tax-based, without even giving any weight to further reducing costs. And you come talking to us about scandals! Listen, Prime Minister: PASOK has done so. He delivered to justice all the people he had to. We have nothing to fear. The executives and colleagues of all we have given justice are in your party today, in your own court. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] You asked me if I knew what was happening in the rest of Europe in relation to Grexit. Of course, we knew what was happening in Europe. Of course, we have tried to prevent the plans of the most extreme neoliberal circles in Europe that did not want Greece in the euro from the start. You, however, got along with them, with the people you have inside your party and serve the drachma party. Your position, Prime Minister? Where are you? I stood up and went to the European socialists because the country had to have allies. That's the fight I've had. I didn't sit in my party. I didn't sit down to make a sterile opposition. I'm up and backed up, and I and all of our MPs, at the same time as you and your partner, Mr. Kammenos, exaggerate us. The patriotism of PASOK is not impotent for you to come here today and move our finger. You should try to create a national front. Take advantage of this consensus that has never existed in the past five years. Two hundred fifty, one Member of Parliament gave you the mandate, two hundred thirty next. With this attitude, how many will you leave? And you come and you talk about elections and you let your members talk about elections without even stabilizing the country? That's funny, Prime Minister. You should shut it down. You should make use of the majority that has been formed in this Parliament before, which lifts your burdens, your failed negotiation. That's the truth. And instead, you're dealing with the fronts of your interior. Once again you are hostage to your recommendions. But it cannot be hostage to your party and Greece, Prime Minister, Greek women and Greeks who suffer. Why do you have to respond to them who are again faced with the recession, with the deficits, with unemployment, with the new padlocks, once again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u7	Please! Mrs. Generation, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u8	It was necessary, Prime Minister, for the country to sit at the negotiating table again, to convene the board of political leaders. And why did you have to have this great authority? Because your government's credibility was in Nadir. That's the reality. Because for six months you haven't been negotiating. If your mandate really was to have a defensive plan and it was an act of responsibility, then why was it in secret? Why has Mr Varoufakis tried to affect the credibility of the people in charge, the Bank of Greece and the General Secretariat of Public Revenues? Because when he was asked at the teleconferencing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u9	Mrs. Birthday,... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u10	Ms. Baja, please! If you can't stand it, get out. Please! If you can't stand going out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u11	They don't like truths, but it's good to be said. Because the Greek people must listen to what has happened. If that were your mandate, then, why, with national pride, Mr Varoufakis, when asked at the teleconference, did he not say that with your mandate he is making this project and has no problem in making it public, but he replied that if they see the light of publicity, he would disprove it? It's obvious there was a plan B in the first place. The question is, where are you standing? Are you still standing on two boats? And you have to tell the Greek people today: Do you think that the country should remain in Europe and in the eurozone as an equal member, why does it serve the public, the national interest or why you were blackmailed or why you are the victim of a coup, or why did you seek other sources of funding, other safe ports and you did not find them? Finally, Prime Minister, answer - not us. We will not be entitled, because you have failed. We know that very well. The country needs - beyond memoranda, beyond prerequisites - a national reconstruction plan. And the new PASOK, Prime Minister, deals precisely with these healthy productive forces of Greek society, which you do not take into account, nor with those measures you want to bring for a vote. You are destroying farmers and the primary sector is a key pillar from which we hope the country will move towards economic reconstruction. So answer the Greek citizens: Where are you going? Where are you? Who are you? Who do you want to express? What's your direction? Can you and want to serve this unique national line that PASOK has carved since 2010?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u13	Mrs. Generation, you're talking about truths, but you're still perverting. You mentioned in a report from me that I did not say in an election that we would end with the memorandum with a law. I didn't tell the Greek people all of a sudden, like it's a goldfish, we didn't say. We're elected. We were elected by command to try to get away from the memoirs. And that's what we did, and that's why you're blaming us now and you want to set up trials that we supposedly led the country to the disaster. It is right that political controversy should be made in terms of real and substantial, but I would like to reply very specifically: you are accusing us of having a plan to get the country out of the euro, planning it in some dungeon secrets along with Mr Varoufakis and various other staff. Then why didn't we apply it? Why didn't we apply it, Mrs. Genemas? Can you explain? Throughout the referendum you, the other parties of opposition other than the JRC and the Golden Dawn, the three, all systemic media, all the old political system, all the international community, probably the international community, the European officials, said one thing, that the referendum is 'yes' to the euro, 'no' to the euro. If, then, our goal was to make secret plans, and we were in the middle of the day, and we were conspirators, and we wanted to get the country out of the euro, taking 63%, why didn't we get the country out of the euro?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u14	Because you couldn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u15	Why couldn't we? Do you understand what a mess you are saying to us - you are serious people - in this Parliament? 'Why couldn't we?' If we couldn't, why did we have this plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u16	You can't. It's not coming out of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Gregoraco! Anyone who can't stand is coming out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u18	Before you didn't say that. That means democracy, Mr President. You didn't say that a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u19	It's not 63%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u20	It's 62%, yeah, okay!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u21	Please! We've said the same thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u22	Let's have a right number. And you want 75% to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u23	Okay, Mrs. Vuldesis, I confess, it's 62%, it's not 63%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u24	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u25	So, are we going to be serious in this Chamber? And the political negotiation must take place with serious arguments. You say that the effort made by the Ministry of Finance, the idea of having a database that will enable every citizen with a code, with whom he will have access to the system and will be able to offset his public debts with public debts to him, is a secret and evil euro exit plan. But this project is extremely useful. The euro is extremely useful. For whatever phase the country is either difficult or normal. Because it reduces bureaucracy, clears out rapid transactions, while at the same time drastically restricts the need for liquidity - which is going to be permanent and in the next period - both public and citizens, and combats the accumulation of public obligations towards individuals and vice versa in a short time. This, Mrs. Genemas, is this the famous, famous, suspicious plan to exit the euro? If that is, then, indeed, I think you brought us here today for a funny reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u26	Then why did you come?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u27	And I would invite you to work this plan out and bring it together. Together with the blessings of the institutions, we shall vote on this project...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u28	You're covering him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u29	...project for the electronic database. But I would like to go to the most political issues raised by your position. You said you were done with the scandals in PASOK because you sent to the committee and to the special court Mr Papaconstantinou. Really, Mrs. Generation? Tell me what more did Mr. Papaconstantinou, whom you sent to a special court by Mr. Venizelos on the Lagard list? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What more did he do? Is this how you guys clean up your comrades? Is that how you clean them up? I would also like to insist, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, that you leave us here on the issue of the ownership of the programme at all times. And I think with this, with your perseverance, every citizen can understand the difference between us that we tried, we fought, we brought the best we could, it was not what we wanted and we continue to give the battle to you, which, not only, you tried, but you were on the same side of the table as the other side. We admit it, we went to a difficult compromise with a programme of materialism, because at the present time, in the unfavourable political connections in Europe, we had no choice. However, the last Greek citizen understands that. Just as the last European citizen has realised that what happened with Greece was not the co-formulation of a programme but the imposition of a programme. What exactly are you asking us, Mr. Genemas, for, once again, you are identified with the lenders in requesting the property of the vision? In order for the Greek people to understand what this property means, you are asking us - what the whole world has seen - to impose a programme, and indeed in an agarbo way which exposes both those who have imposed their power and the Europe that goes away from its values. You are asking us to deny all of this, all the things that world public opinion has experienced and to say: 'You have not understood well! It was our property." I mean, we proposed all this and not the lenders, it's ours. I, too, spent seventeen hours in there, for begging them to put other measures in place, and they said to me: 'No, don't put any more measures'. That's what you're asking to tell the Greek people. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I ask why you're doing this? You especially, Mrs. Genemas, why are you doing this? Why are you following the same line as Mr. Venizelos? Does the area of social democracy have any prospect of matching the most extreme neoliberal centres in Europe? You yourself told me that you went and met and spoke. You see this debate that is currently taking place in Europe on terms, as you have seen them in the European Parliament, splitting. On the one hand, the extreme neoliberal conservative forces are, on the other hand, the very big blocks of European social democracy, the Greens. Who are you with in this conversation with? Are you with the social-democratic Europeans on this side, or are you with those who are on the conservative side? I want an answer to that although the Rules of Procedure do not provide for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u30	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u31	Staff? All right, it's all personal. So why do you match this fight of lenders? I don't think it makes any sense, and I'm very sorry, Madame Gennamas. In any case, I want to tell you by closing that we will never stop telling the truth to the Greek people. We will never stop questioning the effectiveness of these measures, which we believe are in the wrong direction. We will apply yes, because we are forced to apply them, but at the same time we will fight for their change, for their improvement, for their negative consequences to be lifted. We will take advantage of this very great debate that has opened in Europe in order to demand improvements and changes for the benefit of the people's strata and of Greek society. And one last word about Mr. Varoufakis, telling me I'm covering him. Listen, Mrs. Genemas. Mr. Varoufakis may have made mistakes, like all of us, he may have responsibilities. You can blame him as much as you want for his political plan, for the statements he made, for not wearing good shirts, for going on and on vacation in Aegina. You can blame him for that. You can't blame him for being a loot! You can't blame him for stealing the Greek people's money! You can't blame him for having a secret plan to lead the country to the rocks! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Varoufakis, as Minister of Finance, Mrs. Genemas, while he was Minister and made his mistakes, was not making his money abroad, such as the former Minister of Foreign Affairs!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u32	Does he already have them outside?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u33	Mr Varoufakis, while he was Minister, did not hide the taxpayers' lists in his drawers, Mrs Genemas, as Mr Venizelos and Mr Papaconstantinou did. My partner, Mrs. Genemas, didn't have, like Mr. Samaras' partner, free of charge to Swiss banks. Fortunately today, justice is moving and I hear that today it gives justice to the money that Mr. Samaras' close associate had on the Lagard list. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So if you want to look for criminal responsibilities for a fair fight of a government and a people, you are wrong and what you are doing is to activate the feelings of public opinion and the popular wisdom and the popular proverb that says: 'In the house of the hanged, they are not looking for a rope'. But if you want, go ahead. "Work the wing, evil of his head," Mrs. Genemas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister. The timely question procedure is over. Mrs. Generation needs the floor on personal grounds, I guess for a minute. Let's call it personal. Mrs. Genemas has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm not looking for which European family I belong to. It is clear that PASOK belongs to the European Socialists, to the European Social Democrats. I met repeatedly and sat on the same table as Mr. Holland, Mr. Renji, Gabriel and all the leaders of the socialist parties in Europe, and together we fought to keep Greece at the negotiating table, to help Greece, the Greeks and the Greeks, because the government alone could not secure this safe prospect for the country. Yes, of course, Europe must change and it will change from the European Socialists to end the illusions, because the Prime Minister's companions voted against Greece's aid and at some point truths must be said. I'm not going to get into this mud game in the fan. I think we should follow another political culture at this time when Greeks are very anxious to see whether there will be tomorrow in that country and whether they will be able to keep small and medium-sized enterprises open the next day because the padlocks are ahead of the gates.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u36	Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u37	I would like to say, however, and to make it clear that it is dishonest, when Parliament decides in particular on Mr Venizelos's question, that the Prime Minister should open it up in such a debate that there is no room for response. For Mr Papaconstantinou justice has already been ruled. Of course, Mr Varoufakis, as Mr Andreas Loverdos, our spokesman for the examination, will come to the examination, which we are discussing on the memorandum, to examine his responsibilities and to see why you are covering today in this way, Prime Minister, Mr Varoufakis. Because you should have denounced him, or once you have been covering and not deleted from your parliamentary group, you should be addressing the Greek people with answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u38	It's not "personnel" that, Mrs. Genemas. After the personal placement of Ms. Genemas, we are going to the first timely question of the first cycle, number 441/20/22-7-2015 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Mr. Nikita Kaklamani, to the Prime Minister, on measures on illegal immigration in the country. Mr. Kaklamanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u39	First of all, Prime Minister, I will be happy and positive for you. I have been here for many years and I do not remember the Prime Minister's time to have come to the Prime Minister's reply. A party leader came to, yes, sometimes more rare at times. I therefore consider it important that you reply to current Members' questions as well. Secondly, before I go into the matter, I would like to remind the House that fourteen days ago New Democracy MPs have tabled a question asking the government to give publicity over time, regardless of parties which MPs and whose ministers have, had and when, if they did, made money abroad. We're still waiting for your answer. When you send it to us as a government, then we'll see who they have, who they have and when they've got it. Also, because you're ticking me - you know I'm a Eurosceptic, I've never hidden this - think now you weren't on the other side with the lenders, what would you have brought us. According to Mrs Constantopoulos and Mr Lafazani you have brought the third memorandum, which is the worst of the three memoranda and you are on the other side. So imagine not being, what you would have brought. Let go of these.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u40	On this subject, Mr Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u41	Now we're going to the point of immigration. Remember, Prime Minister, because it happened and you were head of the Dissidence at the time in the Municipality of Athens, that we had seen the problem created since the beginning of the 2000s. And when 2007 - and I have to say that it was one of the few times that you were helping my mayorship at that time - we started making - and in fact institutions with presidential decrees not to chance - feeding centres, social grocery stores, social pharmacy and the Athenian Market, from many people we had been accused of having communication. Not from you, you supported them. This was the knowshow that all self-government until today has taken on this difficult role from own resources - to hear this and Mr. Voutsis, who is next door - and some municipalities also accept money from the merciful Mr. Soros. I'm leaving it. I remember your schedule statements in the House, Prime Minister. I do not have time to read the whole paragraph to you. Tell me from that day until today what you have begun to implement. On the other hand, I know that you have, as a government and as a party, allergies to immigration centres. I'm not talking about centres of migrants who don't respect living conditions that are basic human rights, of course, right? So, in time, you have booked or rather opened and emptied the Amydaleza, so that these people in the center of Athens will be left out without the slightest care, but the slightest care, on behalf of the government, is put to self-government again, which will go, that will be washed, that will be dressed, and above all that they will eat. So today we see one of the ornaments of Athens, the Field of Mars, in the situation, which is not described literally. I went in late last night, but that's why I'm gonna talk in my dentistry. In my prototype, I would like to close now by putting the problem at European level, and then we will talk about our 'internal'. The reason you say that, because of the war in North Africa, this wave, this tsunami, is not the case. The war in Syria has started in 2012, did not start in 2015 nor in 2014, and the spring in Tunisia and Iraq and Libya had also started a few years ago. Is it, then, another reason? Secondly, because I never, you know, in my life I did not say 'American people' - not that I was very sympathetic to them - you said it - now you have changed it - have you ever wondered what responsibility it might have - and I tell you that because you are often talking to the American government - America itself in destabilising the region because of which these uncontrolled currents are destabilising Europe? Have you ever thought of putting it to them as a matter of this, that it seeks to destabilise Europe and the economic destabilising of Europe by means of willingly 'Yankidians'? What Europe now? A Europe which, with horrors, draws up resolutions in the European Parliament, which will then be thrown into the heart of the unusable, a Europe that adopts the romantic proposal first of all by the Greek Commissioner for dealing with the problem. But you know very well that even if he started implementing it, he needed time, because Brussels's cardboard goats only know nothing more than bureaucracy. So we had to see what we were doing in here and we didn't do anything. I would also like you to tell me whether it is true - because I want to believe that it is not true - that the International Red Cross has sent 300,000 euros to the Bank of Greece to deal with the situation as a matter of urgency now in the Maris Field and elsewhere in the center of Athens. And really, why only in Athens? Why do immigrants come only to Athens from the islands? Aren't there any other urban centers going? Why all in Athens? I could never understand that. And tell me if it's true that because of the capital control they couldn't - he says - this money could be disbursed and returned back. I want to believe that what I read in newspapers - because in newspapers I read it - is information that does not work. Because if he stands up and we put capital control on the 300,000 International Red Cross that sent them to deal with part of the crisis these unfortunate people are going through, then we are for the festivals - that is, we are all for the festivals. I would therefore like you to tell me what direct action the government will take, and what action it will take to bring it back. Leave FRONTEX, FRONTEX arrests, records and nothing else does and brings them in, is not a deterrent force. For the past six months, the fence has been destroyed in Evros - I have asked two questions, and in my last answer, Mr Panousis said after four months - and his repair has not even begun. Are you going to fix him again? You're against the fence, so you're gonna tear down the rest of it? What are you gonna do? He has not answered this question to me. In closing my prototype, Prime Minister: this is not a matter for us to make a sterile opposition. I believe that my party, as well as I personally, will be ready to assist in anything, but it will be essential - it will not be communication, it will not be superficial - and above all effective. I have proposals to make in my dentext. Of course I know that political constellation in Greece over the last five years has been moving into the economy, but it is not just the economy. There are other problems, day-to-day problems, such as this and others, which we have either put under the carpet or left behind. I see you do the same you do, but we shouldn't do it, it's wrong. Of course, that's where the spear's head is. I do not fall into the clouds, I do not live in another country, but these are also problems, which, as far as I am concerned with my institutional status and as a party, are ready to work together and find solutions. And never forget that rights are not a la cart. There are not only rights for refugees, whether legal or not, or immigrants, whether legal or not, there are rights to those Greeks who live in this place too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kaklamani, the immigration issue, I believe, is one of the most important issues Greece has to face but also one of the most important challenges facing the European Union and one of the most serious issues on a global scale, to which we are invited to respond and find solutions. In this sense, I think it should stop being used as a matter of serving political purposes and mobilising some fearful instincts in society and fueling perceptions, which could often be labelled as intolerance and racist, but we should start and start all of us to contribute so that it is not a hub of confrontation but rather the point on which all political forces are converging on the basis of the principles of the European democratic tradition of humanism, solidarity and respect for the dignity of the different. Our government, Mr Kaklamani, is dealing with the immigration issue - is trying to deal with it, because it is an issue that goes beyond us - with these principles, under these conditions. We are dealing with this as the big issue of the time, first of all creating problems for immigrants and refugees themselves. In our country we are now talking about refugee flows, refugees who are rooted out, searocked and subjected to incomprehensible suffering, seeking to escape from economic tolerance or from war and destruction most of the time. You were right to say: 'We Westerners' but we are not the ones that draw up the strategy in the West. We are the ones who accept as the extreme border of the West, the consequences of the effects of these strategies and of the political choices. And Greece today is an area of stability in a wider destabilised region, where we have in the north of Ukraine, to the east and south of Syria, to the south and west of Libya. And indeed the Mediterranean Sea has become a 'psiest place of souls'. We need to realise what I said at the last summit, where I discussed the immigration issue and there was a very tough confrontation, Mr Kaklamani, between the southern countries and the countries of the North, and some late members of the European Community, who consider solidarity to be a la cart case and in no case accepted a few hundred refugees in their own countries but wanted the possibility to be voluntary. And what I told them was: Greece has a very great crisis in the crisis. And the very great crisis is this huge refugee wave that the Aegean islands are facing today. The new government has, therefore, since it took office, recognised as the first necessity the functioning of an effective system of first-hand asylum and reception of persons in need of international or other special protection. It was also made a prerequisite and priority by the government as a whole, but also by the relevant Ministries, for the proper application of international Union and national legislation to welcome the requested international protection and for the fair and effective examination of their requests. However, in addition to addressing and rationalising the chronic pathogens of the reception and asylum system, the government is now being called upon to face an emergency, a current that I say goes beyond us. The recent events, of course, with the death of hundreds of people in the Mediterranean, have caused - and rightly so - a global shock. But that was a moment. For Greece this shock is a day-to-day reality. During the first six months, Mr Kaklamani, 2015, the refugee flows in our country show a significant increase, with the number of new entrants reaching a total of ninety-six thousand five hundred fifty. And I repeat that over 80% of the new entrants are people with a refugee profile, since the vast majority come from war zones - mostly from Syria - and these refugee flows are due to dramatic developments in Syria and Iraq. However, this growth trend - not to this extent - has to say that it has been recorded since 2014. And yet, the previous government did not see to it that it was prepared to deal with these problems. On the other hand, it had not even succeeded in complying with the minimum European obligations, such as the creation of two and a half thousand asylum seekers in the country and the operation of first-hand services at the border, despite the fact that there were European programmes to help in this direction. In addition, the previous Government did not complete the submission of the request for funding for the multiannual programme of the European Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, which should have been submitted by October 2014. This is a matter which we are now dealing with with with the Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos, on how we will be able to respond to increased commitments. As a result, we were able to find ourselves in a financial void for all the services provided to the refugee population. But here we have to be honest. I want to be - and I do not often do so, but I will do so - leniently even with the previous government. Even if all this had been done on time, Mr Kaklamani, the problems would remain, because the migration and refugee issue cannot be dealt with effectively in terms of solidarity and respect for human dignity unless the European Union is treated as a whole - and I would add - by the international community. Here, too, we are making efforts within the framework of our possibilities. The government has, first of all, promoted the activation of the existing solidarity mechanisms within the European Union and the immediate emergency support of our country by taking steps to direct the distribution of responsibility between the Member States. We have fought with Renci at both summits, where President Juncker was forced to admit that 'What we are giving is crumbs in the face of the problem'. We have addressed the competent bodies of the European Union in order to activate the solidarity mechanisms. These proposals and positions were reflected in the most official way and in the Commissioner's synergy. For the first time following the claim of the Greek side, Greece's proposals were not just formulated at meetings, but were also reflected in the ten-point action plan on immigration. Let me remind you that so far references to decisions have only been made by Italy. Now our country's coming in. In particular, the actions for the implementation of the European Agenda for Migration included the support for maritime operations and the Aegean region, the provision for emergency aid to countries facing increased influx issues, such as Italy and Greece, as well as the provision of a relocation programme for for forty thousand third-country citizens in need of international protection from our country. Of course, this number does not solve the problem. So we've now achieved what? We have raised Greece as a center of the problem of the debate that is taking place in the European Union. What we have achieved, together with other countries, is the sharing of responsibilities throughout the Union on the basis of the principle of solidarity. We have also already submitted the request for funding, approved by the European Fund for Immigration and Integration Asylum for a net amount of EUR 260 million for the next six years, and we have established a Management Authority at the Ministry of the Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, in order to ensure a single national strategy and to make direct and transparent use of all sources of funding for actions. Similarly, we are also making demands for emergency funding. Now, about the point you mentioned before, I don't know, I confess. I'll check it out. But what I am aware of, Mr Kaklamani, is that at a meeting that I have been holding - and I am aware of that - and with my own encouragement and the Minister of Finance, there has been consultation with the Association of Greek Banks so that money coming from abroad, either for such reasons or for investments in our country, is not subject to the consequences of capital controls. This also applies from the previous legislative act, which has been in force for a week. I don't know if it happened before, but we'll look into it, and if there's anything like that, we'll try immediately to get that money back and make use of it. However, there is a lack of funding to deal with such a problem. Because the 3,000 euros do not solve the problem in the Mars Field. This is a lack of funding that we have also led to failures, as I said, in previous years regarding the deposit of the 2014-2020 Multiannual Financial Framework for the Immigration and Integration Asylum Fund. We are making considerable efforts, superhumans, in order to deal with, not us, as a government, but the local society, in particular the mayors and the regions, the problem which is huge. They are making superhuman efforts to deal with this situation by a few means. We appealed to the local authorities and found a response as far as possible to ensure that these people live on arrival. But we also appealed to international organisations to help us deal with this extraordinary treaty. We have addressed international and humanitarian organisations, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Red Cross - perhaps it is what you said before - and we had a response. And, of course, the International Red Cross has also responded to the request of the Ministry of Migration Policy and is already drawing up an extraordinary action plan with the mission it will have here. The response of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who, in consultation with the Government and the relevant ministries, is now developing a plan of actions on the islands to support the new entrant population, is also positive. Finally, we are working closely with the regional and local authorities, whom we have the honour of having here today to attend our meeting. We are working closely together and we are trying to do everything possible to make use of all means to quickly tackle the problem. As far as detention centres are concerned, Mr Kaklamani, if you want more details, we can enter my dentistry later. I would like to inform you that due to the previous government's practice, in the two years 2012-2014, our country has been in a bad position on this issue. The detention, as implemented in particular from 2012 until February 2015, was contrary to Greek law, but also to the case law of international courts, as it was applied arbitrarily and for long periods, even beyond the eighteen-month maximum period laid down by the law under conditions, which constituted inhumane and degrading treatment. Ask about this and Mr Avramopoulos, who is not subject to what you suggested before, in ideological reasons for having a different position and attitude. That's a reality. And when we speak in Europe, we must speak in terms so that we can convince ourselves that we are the ones that are the ones that are fundamental to this problem. It should be noted that after April 2012 and the acceptance of the relevant opinion of the Legal Council of State by the then Minister of Public Order and Citizens' Protection, detention was substantially extended, in the form of a restrictive measure of compulsory residence in detention centres. All this has resulted in the intervention of the European Commission and the imposition of sanctions in our country, which we have inverted, simply trying to respect legitimacy and not some ideologies, as you say. In conclusion, I would like to make just one comment - let me make it clear, although you have not referred to it in the presentation of your question, but it is in your question and I would like to refer to that - on the issue of citizenship. I would like to say in advance that his inclusion in your question has given me a relative surprise. Mr Kaklamani, I think we should stop facing a crucial issue here, as I said at first, in terms of political purposes or ideologies, on one hand or on the other. The adoption of the law granting Greek citizenship to children born, raised and in our schools is the expression of legality and law, which must govern a prosperous state towards its children. And her children are all children born in this place and enjoy Greek education, learning as the only language - as a mother almost - Greek. They're her children, no discrimination. Of course, these children are the most integrated part of the migration community, a section that has met in the majority only one country and one country, Greece. This was also recognised by the Parliamentary Committee on Legislative Work, as well as by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which decided on proper legislation, within the framework established by the Council of State. Because the new law on the acquisition of Greek citizenship ensures the existence of a genuine link between the child and the Greek state and the Greek society. And it was at least - let me not refer to you, why don't you, but many of us, the previous government, who stubbornly refused this law - hypocrisy to photograph the former Prime Minister next to the international basketball player playing in NBA who proudly makes us proud, Antetokunbo, who grew up and learned basketball in the neighborhoods of Athens and burns up for it, but at the same time thousands of other children like Antetokunbo are deprived of the right to be proud of being Greek and to raise Greek flags. I would like to close, Mr Kaklamani, with the wish, but also with the commitment that, as far as I am concerned, I will do what is going through my hand so that the immigration question can be dealt with in a democratic, solidarity and fair state and society, and that it will stop being exploited and served by micro-political interests. Ideological blindness and racism are often the social result of such a glimpse of things. And let us not surprise those phenomena that are not only widening, but also filling Parliament's seat with representatives of disgraceful parties. So let us all commit here that we will not tolerate this blindness to understand and pay off the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Kaklamanis has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u45	Prime Minister, but I was going to tell you. I will be a little different because I am amazed to see that, apart from the change in the government's economic policy, there is also a change in what is still on your websites as SYRIZA programmes, in the European elections and in the national elections on immigration. I see that also here Alexis Tsipras from "Saul" has become "Paul". So I hope that this transformation will also be permanent and real here. Secondly, because you have raised it, we in the citizenship law are aware that we have voted on many articles and had objections to specific things: the reduction from ten to seven years that are needed to ask for a residence permit, the circumvention of the European family reunification directive and, in particular, the continuing process of legalising those who have expelled legality and for reasons of non-compliance with the immigration law are illegal today, but have been allowed to reside for five years in the past decade. These three articles we voted against. You have another point of view. We believe that this is an encouragement that, you come in, Greece is ready to welcome you. I wish we were ready. And because you spoke of an effective reception system, don't tell me you're happy with the images you're seeing today. Can I tell you-- is Mrs Christodoulopoulos gone? He left - yesterday's statements by your Minister. What did he say? "At the moment, there is absolutely nothing we can do. These people have no legal status as long as they do not apply for asylum. There is no legal framework for hosting these categories, for those who use Greece as a pass." That's what Mrs Christodoulopoulos said yesterday. With such statements, how can you speak to me about a long-term policy that will solve the problems, which, as I have said to you, and personally, are we not across the street? Let's say a few clues now. These are the official papers that come out of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, and bulletins and statistics for the last six months, as you said. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I see my friend, Mr. Voutsi next door, and I start with Mr. Voutsi. Together we were on a TV channel, but he's said it in the House. He said that he was visited by the Turkish Ambassador and told him that on the coast of Asia Minor there are two and a half million unfortunate people, refugees, non-citizens, migrants financially, legal, illegal, what you can imagine. How many people do you want to go through here? Do you want 20% to 30%? For the calculation of how many hundreds of thousands they are. To calculate what this means to Greece today. And for Greece of yesterday it would mean, but for Greece of today what does that mean? And, Prime Minister, it is now a personal view that I will tell you is not charged to the New Democracy, but I will tell you. Turkey cannot aspire to become a member of the European family and does not respect its signatures. He had signed that those who come in and are arrested are all retreated. You know that in the thousand, he accepts a hundred. I do not know if it is time for this to enter a summit when Turkey's accession process is being discussed in Europe. I know and I know what you mean, but why don't we just put it on? We won't be alone this time, they'll be other states. We are also pressing for Thrace, and I do not want to make any further references to it. I repeat that it is my personal position, but I think it must be done. In a question that Mr. Panousis and Mr. Voutsis had answered, I was told that from the sea borders the increase for 2015 reached 676%, compared to last year. Do you realize what numbers we're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u46	It's not like that, Mr. Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u47	It was written in your answer. Did you answer me wrong? That's what you answered my question. Do you want me to take the number the Prime Minister said? And this number if you put it two to the end of the year, again...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u48	It's 70% compared to 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u49	I'm talking about sea borders alone. Maybe that's why it's the difference. It's usually the difference. Prime Minister, because I am watching and what you are doing, when you go out, because I am interested as a Greek citizen, I think it is time to put back on the table - if you have already done so, do so again with great emphasis - the European Pact on Migration and Asylum, which was at a summit on the Sarkozy Presidency and the subject, as you recall, the Government of Karamanlis had put it on a recommendation by the current President of the Republic, Mr Pavlopoulou. There were five axes there to figure out what pranks are out there. I'm going to take off my Euroscepticism again. I'm probably going to pull out my colic, because I'm not a Eurosceptic monkey like others. I'm a romantic, goulist. He had five axes. One, Prime Minister, of the five axes there, you know what he said? It provided for an important parameter which, unfortunately, has nowadays been unfairly underestimated, not by Greece, but by Europe. It was the promotion of European development partnerships with the countries of origin and transit of migrants. The solution is to help these countries develop and to find bread for these unfortunate people in their countries and not to have to leave to eat and come to Europe. Do you know when this proposal was first heard in the European Parliament? However, because a dissident at least said it - and ideologically and, in any case, as a character - the European Parliament, including myself, stood up and said: 'What are you talking about?' Le Pen told her in the European Parliament in 1995. He said that there is no other salvation, but that we should vote for funds under Europe's control to be sent for development in the sub-Saharan African and South-East Mediterranean countries, so that people can stay there. These, if they do not happen and Europe does not understand them, we will be here next year to discuss these problems. I close, with as much a careful wording as I can. In addition to all others, a way must be found to overcome and internally, not only by sponsoring, as you said, the disbursement of money to feed these people. You know there's a problem, even today we're talking about. That's the one, because hunger is a bad consultant. The hungry man will last a day, two days, three days. On the fourth day he will go to get an apple from a cafass. He's not a thief, he's hungry. The second thing I want to say is to keep an eye on public health. By coincidence today, because you would come here - I don't know, it might not have been a coincidence, but it was planned, because I had made this proposal a week ago on the Municipal Council - I heard it was going to be a mobile unit in the Aries Field. That's good, for starters. But not to become a permanent accommodation for the Mars Field, and that's why the mobile unit goes. If it's to become a permanent accommodation, then I have a different view. I disagree. Watch out for public health, because there will be reactions. I'm not talking about people who, because of ideology or ideology, are against any form of immigrant. I'm talking about people who are scared. If it is found that gastroenteritis is caught the child of a Greek who went for a walk in the park by a unfortunate child - it is not the child's fault because he eats next to the trash - there we will lose the game. I'm telling you. We'll see social explosions that you can't imagine. I'm the one hitting the alarm here today. I should like to end here and hope that we do not have to have that sort of debate again in this sense of control, because I wish we had a debate on how to find solutions within Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u51	Mr Kaklamani, I would like to tell you some practical things in my dentistry about what we have been trying to do lately, despite what the Minister said. Don't blame the Minister. He is right when he says that if immigration policy is not changed, unfortunately, we cannot do anything. It means that on the substance too, because we do a lot and I will tell you. But when you have these flows that go beyond us, then I think that these statements are not critical, but want to highlight the problem. And it is good for the outsides to listen and create a sense of urgency. Because European solidarity cannot be a case that can only be remembered when it comes to lending and, in terms of unfavourableness. So I would like to inform you that we have already ensured the reinforcement of staff by making use of municipal police officers and running extra steps on the islands, and we have set up a first reception centre in Moria, Lesvos. We have operated a temporary hospitality area in Leros and we are launching the creation of a first reception area in Kos. We move on to upgrade the National Asylum System, based on the Asylum Service and the Refugee Authority, for the insurance as effectively as possible of examining asylum claims. We are moving on to the creation of new open reception structures, particularly for the accommodation of vulnerable groups in the Attica region, but also in other parts of the country. Of course, this is a crucial infrastructure issue. At building infrastructure level we ensured the operation of a new structure of unaccompanied minors in Athens, and three other structures of minors in provinces will work. At the same time, we are planning the operation of reception units in the inland, which we will implement with the approved European funding. Especially for the Area of Mars, I would like to say a few words. Indeed, the situation in the Mars Field is critical for the people who live there in extremely difficult conditions. Of course, it is still summer and at least they do not experience the difficulty of not being able to sleep from the cold or rain. However, we must move quickly, because the summer will pass! In the area of Ari, therefore, they have destroyed Afghan refugees for a few days, mainly coming from the island of Lesvos, which accepts the greatest wave of refugee flows. These refugees are at a transitional stage, as they seek refuge in Greece. Some have ties and will attempt to go to other countries in Europe and have not asked for asylum in Greece. This does not, of course, make them any less'refugees' and people in need of protection. Unfortunately, for the reasons I have already mentioned and in fact the financial gap, namely the lack of funds, has not yet been possible to operate a first reception area in the mainland and especially in Attica, which is what is needed to meet the needs of this population. Solutions are, however, being made for the operation of such an area within Attica, taking into account the specificities and needs of the area, which will set up this centre. To address the problem directly, there is coordinated action, in consultation with the local government, with the Attica region, which, as you know, belongs to the area, in consultation with the Municipality of Athens, KEYPNO, to which you referred and are already there. Also, in consultation with the services of the Ministry of Migration Policy, civil society bodies, non-governmental organisations, citizens' volunteers, and we need to show this, because it is very important. When you have to deal with a problem, of course, state structures work primarily, but also the voluntary action of the citizens, trying to help them out and their solidarity is touching. Of course, all this is done in the discreet presence of the Police Authority in the direction of addressing its immediate needs - I believe for a short time - a living population. At the same time, all the co-legislative ministries are in the process of identifying the most suitable area for population transfer and in the next few days, perhaps hours - that is why Mrs Christodoulopoulos has left because she has a meeting - this space will be identified so that the population can be transported. It should be stressed that there is no question of public security or public health. I said that CICPN is already there and that the issue is dealt with in order to try to resolve it immediately. Finally, Mr Kaklamani, I would like to say to you - because you mentioned the 2.1 million refugees in Turkey - that you are right. In fact, let us consider that Turkey is currently facing a huge issue. Of course, in order to be able to deal with the issue of refugee flows - it is good what you say and you are absolutely right, in relation to the re-processions and that it does not comply with the rules - it requires consultation with Turkey. Just imagine, coordinate and with a plan to promote the admission of a share of 2.1 million refugees, which are currently being destroyed on the Turkish coast, and not just of our country with Turkey, but of the European Union with Turkey. I fought at the summit because there Renci only dealt with the Libyan issue - logically, because that is where man had the problem - and Merkel and Holland said: 'Good, summit. European Union-African Union meeting to address the problem." I said to them: 'Children, there is Turkey, which is also a member of the European Union. We need to make a special consultation with Turkey that accepts these flows and provide financial support, if necessary, to keep them there." Fortunately, this request has been accepted and it is expected that initiatives from the European Union will be taken in this direction at the next time. Now on the subject of accession, Mr Kaklamani, badly lies, your opinion is legitimate, but I have the feeling that the Turks themselves are no longer so warmly interested, because they have a very great economic development, it is a regional power and the European Union is facing problems that their mirror are the problems faced by Greece. But this is another debate. Maybe we'll do it another time. I would like to close by saying that the problem goes beyond us and I am glad to hear low tones today on your part and I have seen an honest effort to find solutions to this problem. Regardless of what our beliefs are, when we have a problem that exists, we need to find solutions to it within the European framework, but also within our values. Mr Kaklamani, ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks have the experience of refugee and immigration first and with this experience we cannot let people around us, beside us, die from hunger or from the cold. That was my last word at the summit. Despite the fact that our country today does not have the financial capacity, despite the fact that we are deprived of the possibility of public hospitals serving Greek citizens correctly, we will not let anyone, because they are different, be deprived of the opportunity to live. This is our obligation to humanism, humanism. I have also claimed the obligation of the partners on the issue of solidarity. Because you cannot speak of the European Union, of solidarity and of common borders, and the only thing you are interested in is that those who are being stacked in the host countries, who have become human soul warehouses, should not come. This must therefore jointly claim with other countries in the European south, in the European context, so that European policy can be changed and, of course, we must all help to tackle a huge problem in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The debate on these topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before we proceed to the debate on the next topical and urgent question, I have a statement to make to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the President of the Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos and the Members of his party tabled on 29-7-2015 a proposal for a law: "Agricultural prosecution of members of the Government and State Secretarys with personal detention". I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Foreign, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, National Defence, Economy, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism, Education and Religious Affairs, Environment and Energy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Employment, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure and Tourism, National Defence, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Religious Reform, Environment and Energy, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic, Economic, Health and Religious Affairs, National Defence, Culture, Education and Religious Religious Affairs, Environment and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Social Solidarity, Health and the State Secretarys of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Education and Religious Affairs, after 29-07-2015 of the European Union's Association and the Association of the European Atomic Energy Community, have established a European Coal and Steel Community-Reconciliation Agreement between them. The Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism submitted on 29-07-2015 a draft law: ‘Integration into national law: Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Order, Council Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal register between Member States’ and Council Decision 2009/316/JHA of 6 April 2009 on the establishment of the European System of Criminal Register (CRIS) pursuant to Article 11 of Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA’. We move to the next and last for today's meeting, the fourth with number 435/21-7-2015, a topical question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Production Reconstruction, on the protection and promotion of the Kaiafa lake area. The Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Chironis. Mrs Georgopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes to submit your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm going straight to the point about the economy of time. But please note the dates and dates. On 12-01-2012, by decision of the former Ministry of Development, it was foreseen to integrate the ‘Caiafa Eco-Economic Development Act, the completion and modernisation of basic infrastructure networks and the development of new bi-day tourism facilities’ in the NRP 2007-2013, with a deadline of EUR 8.055.230, with a final eligibility period of 31-12-2015. The above Act concerns immovable property managed and managed by ‘Greek Public Tourist Real Estate’, EOT. It includes the countryside with thermal sources, facilities, hotels, hydrotherapies, the island of Agia Catherine and the lake. The entire property is part of the area of Community importance, Thins and Coastal Forest of Sakhara, Lake Kaiafa, Strophia, Cacovat of the European Network of NATURA 2000. The EBRD has therefore, in the meantime, prepared a specific environmental study for that area, which has been approved by the HYPEKA since 29-10-2012, pending the approval of an environmental impact study, which has been subjected competently since November 2013. For three years I have been a Member of Parliament, Minister, I have been following the matter with the Ministers responsible, with meetings with the EBRD and the scholars, to find out why this operation is not being implemented, in total or even in part. Is it environmental law or not? Can the scope of the work envisaged in it be limited, so that soft regeneration and protection projects are not lost entirely? However, I certainly do not even want to think that it will be allowed to go to the HSE or to the EUR 50,000 000 million fund and to be given for divestment or any other type of exploitation. It is therefore necessary, Minister, to clarify why this act is not implemented, in which national and Community funds will be used and the public character of the property area will also be guaranteed, and to clarify whether the area will remain in the mercy of the trespassers and of all the kinds of interests that are shattered by the region, or whether we will overturn this framework, as we have a duty. We all know - and you, of course, better - that the President-in-Office's decree is pending and that the Council of State has recently judged it to be non-legislative for a breach of essential procedural requirements. However, in too many areas they are covered behind this, namely the non-issuance of the Presidential Decree, and projects have gone ahead without having gone ahead with the drafting and adoption of the Presidential Decree. On the other hand, we certainly have a lack of transparency with the European Court of Justice on the inappropriate environmental protection of this rare ecosystem. I know that you are committed that as soon as possible the new presidential decree will be drawn up, including the Council of State and the needs of local societies, in order to create a clear institutional framework, which will contribute to the real protection and enhancement of the region. To sum up, I would like to ask you: Why has the above act not gone ahead? If, of course, a new dossier is submitted from the 2007 NSRP, will it be submitted for its inclusion in the 2014-2020 New EPA? Is there a plan for the protection and promotion of the Caiafa lake area on behalf of the Joint Ministries? What is the timetable for drawing up the draft presidential decree on the cypress Gulf and what are the main axes that this will include? Is the protection of this region to be included in the drafting of the new presidential decree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mrs Georgopoulos. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u55	I thank you, Madam President, for the timely question, because it raises the hot issue and the whole path of the Greek public administration, because we are talking about development at the same time as we have not laid the rules. You have rightly referred to this and I shall submit the correspondence from the decentralised administration in the minutes, because it is of course necessary to clarify it. The permits for this project come from the decentralised administration, in which it is stated explicitly that the project at the moment was not licensed not because they highlight some specific problems, but because, quite simply, the Presidential Decree is pending. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I am therefore starting with this absurdity, from the fact that we are trying to prevent events, we are trying to put things back on track and go with a serious presidential decree. The presidential decree that we received from the previous agency, as you quite rightly said, was rejected by the Council of State and rather returned with too many points, the most important of which is that the Council of State considers it to be a national park. And that, for the House to understand, means that the conditions, at least within the park, are made much stricter for construction and housing development processes. In this sense, I personally have commissioned two parallel committees and a drafting of a more rational presidential decree if the Council of State finally consents to be a regional park. It is a committee which obviously makes it easier to develop and, at the same time, a second committee, which is directly in the direction of defining areas of a national park, so that in the case - the most difficult, absolutely, in terms of spatial planning - the Council of State insists on the national park, we have a satisfactory and sustainable residential development that does not insult the protected objects, but also, at the same time, a condition for the development of the region. In this sense, I think - and here I shall mention, if I may, a few points - that it was not possible and correct, in my opinion, for environmental impact study by the decentralised administration, because, for example, I see in this study the following: parking spaces of six thousand square meters; support buildings of six hundred five and three hundred twenty meters in the southern part of the lake; two football fields of five times five times five; and a road that surrounds the lake, but is not specified. I am not saying that all these things are badly needed, but before the Presidential Decree was issued, you obviously understand that it would be too dangerous and wrong to start such work, even with such permanent constructions. In the end, it says for three knots - which you know better, I know them too, because we know the region - which is currently going to happen in this region. All this, therefore, seems to me to have to wait and also in the document I have mentioned, in reply to Mrs Fotognita's question, it is obvious that this new negotiation is taking place, that the task of entering the new NSRF is to be brought into the new NSRF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. Mrs. Georgopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u57	Minister, it's important what you told us. However, I am concerned, because these projects and interventions may have to be consistent with the region's character. However, before I hinted - and we have, of course, discussed this issue with the Ministry too - if any of these projects could be in line with the new presidential decree that will be tabled, they could be removed. What is consistent with the region's character is to move on. He objected to one of the ESDPs, not to lose it on the other. In this sense, I say, and my concern remains, that this delay you know that it creates too many injustices in the region - I do not know if you have the information, because you too are attracting your origin from there, as far as I know - which have become status. In other words, the lack of control and social accountability has led to the loss of sponsorships from the company "ELLENICA PERPELAY" for the biological of Sakhara - which is a prerequisite for the operation of the biological system of Sakharovos - which is currently the case for water in the area. I shall submit to the Minutes recent photographs showing the illegal connection of the Sakharovian biological cleansing with the lake and the pollution that has been caused. Only dysosmia can't be revealed from the photos. However, after your last visit, Minister, in the area, I would remind you that you have committed the Ministry to proceed with the monitoring of the waters of the lake and we are all waiting for an answer on that. In conclusion, I would like to point out to you that the citizens of Elias have been full of thick words about the uniqueness and particular natural region, which - notable - after the catastrophic fires in 2007 has suffered too much damage. The previous governments have condemned it to the extinction and deportation, without taking those measures that should be taken to protect the property concerned, but also to the wider area of this rare ecosystem. The life - growing area, with visitors and bathers decades ago, has become a ghost of itself, with a swimming pool with few bathtubs with thermal water, operating for about a month. For the truth, I shall submit to the Minutes recent photos of the - in introductory form the word - 'buildings'. Kaiaphas has today become a pole of attraction for tourists with van, who are camping freely in the area and leaving us with their garbage. Minister, we live in a privileged prefecture from too many aspects. However, he is the last to be developed, lacks basic infrastructure, and we do not have the luxury of losing integrated projects, which will ensure the public character of the region, increase visitors' accessibility and health tourism and create new jobs, so that young people remain in their country. We wait immediately and complete initiatives from you in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u59	I will agree with you that in the end delays only harm because they facilitate anarchy. It is not, of course, up to me to point the works out to the scholars. I fully agree with you that the wastewater treatment and treatment works are first priority projects and could have been wonderfully separated from the scholars and have requested that they be submitted separately to decentralised, so that they can be accepted rather than the others. However, this has not been done - and you know that - not, of course, under the responsibility of the Ministry, but under the responsibility of the scholars, because it is customary in Greece for scholars and local interests to prefer to land the necessary projects along with others, so that they can do so in order to ensure the overall acceptance of the projects by decentralised ones. Decentralized didn't accept this thing and I can't get into her own business. I have already mentioned three points to which I would also agree that the President-in-Office's decree should be awaited. It is not, of course, wastewater treatment projects. In fact, the study does not include - and you know - projects that concern the restoration of existing structures. It's not in the study, at least that's what my services tell me here. That is why I think we should do a serious job right now. My office's open. We need to see what those projects are. And here comes the mayor, who even came to the Ministry yesterday on the trash issue. My door is open and you know it very well. Let's see what those urgent ones are, which we could put into the new NSRF as a bridge, so that they would be as a priority - since they were not included in the previous one - if they were not possible at the moment or, at least, join as a priority. I certainly can assure you that these are the infrastructure projects. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] From there on, the presidential decree is absolute priority in the Ministry, precisely because the infringement is on the table, and at the moment our country is being indicted for the non-protection of the object, which is the ammothins and of course the carnet - carnetta. So we want at least in the next two months to have finished with the Presidential Decree, to have gone to the European Union to have tabled it, so that we do not have any fines. This is the will of the Ministry. So we're talking about an acceleration. But it is not possible - I say again - because we have found backward procedures, as our people say 'the cart in front of the ox', to submit to these procedures at this time. That's not our government. The presidential decree must come out. All NATURA in Greece must acquire presidential decrees, acquire specific environmental studies, presidential and management plans, so that investors can also know where they can and can do. It is the only way to develop our country and not distractively to go and in the face of some pressure to accept. I say this because we also have other pressures from private individuals in some areas that are 'NATURA' to do work that they currently cannot do, because we do not have the presidential decrees. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] That's our reality, and that's what we have to go with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Minister. The debate on this topical and urgent question has also been concluded. I would like to inform the House that a number of other topical questions had been scheduled. The third, with number 434/21-7-2015, is a topical question by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diakrias to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on measures to protect the natural environment against forest fires. Also, the fifth question by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of State regarding compliance with electoral law by private channels is not discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth question by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the extension of natural gas networks and pipelines in the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace is not discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister. The seventh, number 398/30-6-2015, timely question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the recruitment of necessary personnel at the “PPC S.A.”, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Finally, the eighth Question No 293/2-2015 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mrs Elias Cassiri to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday 3 August 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 453/28-7-2015 by the New Democracy MP Mr. Vassilios Economou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the completion of the Koropi-Payanian sewer network. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 449/27-7-2015 of the People's Association's Association MP Michael Arvanitis to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the problems posed by illegal immigrants in the port of Patras to the transnational transporters. 3. The question by No 447/27-7-2015 of the Greek Parliamentary I Thessaloniki Mr Christina Tachiaou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the treatment of fires and the preparedness of the Centre for Civil Protection Operations. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 454/28-7-2015 by Congressman Grevenes of New Democracy Mr.Timoletan Cossacks to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on measures to revise the economy in northern Greece. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 450/27-7-2015 by MP Mr. II Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of National Defence on the financial cuts in the Armed Forces and the weakening of Greek defence power. 3. The question under number 427/14-7-2015 by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandra Chanaka to the Minister of National Defence, on the performance of the premises of the Asmakopoulou Camp and the airport of Amydaleon Kavala in local government. 4. The question asked by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilias Kamaterou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the saturated tourist areas and inequalities in development. 5. The question by No. 395/29-6-2015 of the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nicholas Kotzias during his visit to Skopje on 24-6-2015. 6. The Question No 401/30-6-2015 by MP Rethymnon of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of National Defence on the requirements of lenders for cuts in expenditure in the Armed Forces. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No. 219/14-5-2015 is a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the provocative action of Skopje in Florina. 8. The 234/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on bilateral relations with the neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. 9. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of our Macedonian name to the Skopje". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1116/24-2015, a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotaou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, about the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "AYDINLIK" that "Turkey proceeded to a committee for the claim of sixteen Greek islands". Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-31-S1-commons.u61	With the consent of the House at 12.37 minutes the sitting on Monday, August 3, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a topical and urgent debate.
