ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 31-10-2015, the Minutes of the IE Bureau on Saturday 31 October 2015 concerning the vote on the entire draft law: "For the recapitalisation framework of credit institutions and other provisions" of the Ministry of Finance]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Any minister who has more than one question will answer all in turn and will follow the next Minister. The first is the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Tree Alexiadis. The second question under number 38/26-10-2015 is the number 38/26-10-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MP in Athens, New Democracy Mr. Gerasimios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the payment of VAT 23% by the private clinics and care units of the elderly. Mr. Yakumate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, Minister, for me it is incomprehensible that you should take out a private clinic in Greece to close all, not to have a private clinic. Because, as you go on, when the EOPY does not pay the clinics, and the clinical chief must, at the end of the month, pay VAT on 31 of the month - if he has a turnover of 200,000 to pay 46 000 on 31st month as VAT - and he has to collect one and two years from EOPY, he will go to jail. Already, Minister, the 'Bryan Cross', an old historical clinic, but others, a total of seven, have been closed so far. By December, they'll all be closed. Can I tell you something? You're a travel government, how much you care about the clinic. I don't care either. But aren't you interested in the staff, the nurse, in the wounded, in the cleaner we're unemployed? Over sixty and seventy thousand by the end of the year will reach the unemployed. What am I asking? Since EOPY owes the clinics, the VAT is offset by what EOPY owes. It's never happened before. I work for you, you owe me, and then you put me in jail! This is a world originality! So make a set-aside, Minister, for the clinics. The second point is that you keep cutting and cutting pensions. We did it, too, not just you. The elderly have reached a point of impoverishment. When we call the elderly, we mean Alzheimer's, springs, brains, which if they went to a state unit, Minister, either pre-school or hospital, would cost at least 300 euros a day. It's five thousand elderly in private units. You're VATing 23%. So, what can you collect? To collect 5 million euros a year. Mercy! Five million! And what are you doing with it? You are destroying a category of elderly people who really can't stand anywhere. They can't even die. It's incomprehensible! Apart from that, however, if we look at the prerequisites, I will present to you in the Minutes, Mr Minister, a question which has been asked by a Member of Parliament to Mr Moscovisi and I have the answer from Mr Moscovisi. It is possible, Minister, only in Greece, Cyprus, Austria and Hungary that they are not exempted. In all the other countries of Europe it is 0%. Moscovisi says it's a matter of the National Government taking it to 0%. We don't tell 0%, but leave it to 13%. So what are we asking? Is that too much? Do you need an antidote? Does it take an equal rate for 5 million a year? You destroy them, they'll all be closed. It's not just that, but where are the old people going? One unit is closed and they have no place to take them. There's no state care. So - and here, please - look at this and from 23% let it go to 13%. Mercy! But exhausting all economic power over helpless elderly people, for me it is not a welfare state, not a favoured society, but an irreversible, hard government that put them with the helpless, with Alzheimer's, with dementia, with brain elderly people. Shame on you! At least shame! In the record, I'm figuring out Moscovisi's answer, so you don't have to tell me about prerequisites. Here's Moscovisi's answer with his signature. It says 0% in all countries except those that are 7%. And this is 23%? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Alexiadis, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u4	I'll try to answer in three minutes. It is my first answer to a timely question in this House, so forgive me any mistake I make. I have to say from the outset, Mr Yakumato, that you are absolutely right about what you say in your question. You raise two issues and you're right on both sides. The first thing you have is the public's self-evident obligation and the right of businesses to offset obligations to each other. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the debts that have been owed by EEAS to these private clinics. This is not the case, because according to the law followed by the Ministry of Finance in its payments, i.e. netting, it is not considered a narrow public sector in the narrow sense. It is considered a legal person, a wider public sector, and so it cannot be offset by the VAT that the clinic owes, when it cuts a invoice to the EOPY with the money that the EOPY owes it. It is a problem that we have and it is something that concerns us and the time involved, as we have committed ourselves in the programme statements, we will bring such legislation that we solve this problem, so that one obligation can be netted out with the other. It is unreasonable that the public owes, that the company should be obliged to do so and that this set-aside cannot be done. It is something that concerns us and we will deal with it. For the moment, the only thing that the company can do is to get tax information, to tax information, to write the amount that it owes the public and when it goes to be paid by the ERCY, to withhold it by the procedures up to 10% and the rest to deal with this issue. So it is an accounting problem for the public, a real problem for businesses, and we really want to make it clear, because at the moment companies and citizens owe about EUR 82 billion overdue public debts. The public owes about EUR 5.1-5.2 billion. This situation is a crook that needs to be closed. The second issue you raise is the question of VAT in these clinics, in the enterprises providing accommodation and accommodation for the elderly. As you will know better than me with your parliamentary experience, this is a procedure that has been done with v. 4334 from 20 July 2015, where this 23% obligation exists. We have said many times that we are not happy about these provisions. However, we are obliged to do so and in that sense we have imposed them. You know, but you too are aware that all these VAT rates that we increased in 2015 will be able to be reviewed in 2016 on the condition that it has come under the agreement that was reached in July to proceed with the n. 4336 to the next deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Yakumato, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u6	Minister, the Greek people have been filled with 'I will', 'I will'. From the first day that this unaltered charm came in, Mr. Chakalotos, Mr. Juliarakis and you are now saying 'yes, it will be reviewed, we will see, you are right'. That's what you keep saying. But the raisins do exist. Firstly, should the clinics - and I will push them there - report the contracts with EEAS, have no EEAS at all? That's where the clinics are going. Where they're going to jail, they better report the contract. That is what I shall propose to them as a response to this timely question on the issue that concerns them. Mercy! Unemployment will go to 28%, whether it goes to 29% or 30%, as things go. One businessman cannot lose his money and go to jail, because the state itself fails to pay him its obligations, and he has to pay them. Yes, Minister, it's not just clinics. They're cancer patients too. To see what's going on in "Saint Savva" - not you, we beat wood - where someone who needs to do chemotherapy takes six months. So he goes to a private diagnostic center or clinic to do chemo. There's 23%. Mercy! Is there a VAT 23% on chemo? Where did this happen again? From that point on, you're saying that he'll take from EOPY what he owes him and write in the tax information below that EOPY owes him so much. VAT knows him better than I do. You're as good a knowledgeer as anyone else. We're not kidding about VAT. You didn't pay him, it's a felony, a violation, an illegality. How do we do it? If he doesn't, he doesn't pay him. So nothing can be done. So I tell you that 5 million euros a year is VAT on the care units of the elderly. Mercy! Now came the Health Minister who says that the one euro he gets for the recipe gives him the time of 56 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u7	He's giving 55 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u8	He's giving 55 million euros. Mercy! The five million euros in old age with Alzheimer's and dementia? Is that all you need? If you miss this, you go out and say it, because this is not a prerequisite for me to say 'yes, there is an obligation in the European Union'. I've submitted something to you in the Minutes that you need to read. It is a paper from Moscovisi, who is on the finances of Europe. It says that throughout Europe it is '0%'. If the care of the elderly were to take the elderly and take them to Mr. Xanthos, he would pay - let him read Spraus's report to see what he says in -300 euros up to 500 euros a day. The hospital here in the center, "Agia Helen", is a old-age parking lot. If you ask, Minister - if you take the budget of St. Helen, you are in economics, with thirty, forty units, where they park the elderly to be old - how much it costs Mr. Xanthos, the Minister will understand that they cost millions of thousands of these five thousand we care for. What should we do? We have to send them to Mr. Xanthos, take them to hospitals to get ten and a thousand costs of what you're going to collect. I exorcise you. These proud old ages have been afflicted. The proud old age was beaten in front of Maximus before. Then they walked the worst way. And the government is coming now that it's supposed to be the government of the people - damn me! - and she's pulling all her guts off to helpless old ladies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Keep in mind what Alzheimer's means, what dementia, what stroke means with Levi. Have him where, when there are no state units? So when you go and tell him 1000 euros a month and pay for VAT of EUR 1230 or EUR 1100 or EUR 1353, you realize it's forbidden. Mercy! Show in practice that there is a sensitivity from you in particular to the third age, especially to those undignified who cannot react when their pension has reached nadir. Mr Minister, I will not go back to question both the 'will' and the 'will' in the House. When it is done by both the clinical and the care of the elderly, then you will assume your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u9	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u10	With the courage to take responsibility and say that you are right in your questions, now let me say that I fully agree with what you said about Alzheimer's and dementia, but that is not what the Greek people are suffering from. The Greek people know very well what led health issues here, what led pensions, what led the economic situation and the economic crisis. So we've come here through a situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u11	And the Kolokotronis route, what he knows. For 23%, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u12	Of course, 23%. 13% of 23% took place with n. The Court ruled as follows: 4336.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u13	Government SYRIZA - Tsipras! We're not talking about Karaiskakis and Kolokotronis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u14	Government SYRIZA - ANEL and bills that have passed other parties than SYRIZA, ANEL. Let me remind you that Mr von Wogau is here. 4334 and R.P. CFI, Arts 4 and 5 (p. 4336 have been passed by a large parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u15	No, no! We didn't vote for them. You're wrong. I'm categorically telling you no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u16	We won't disagree about that. As far as I am concerned, however, and I am closing down with this so as not to take the rest of the time - the sensitive issues, we understand your sensitivities. But we also have sensitivities. Be assured that we are doing everything possible to help the third age and to help the Greek people in general, both on taxation issues and on other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u17	How, Mr. Alexiadis? It's 5 million a year. Mercy! Is that all missing from the Greek State? The five million? I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u18	Now we will discuss the sixth question by number 34/26-10-2015, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on the voluntary disclosure by Greek citizens of their statements abroad. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, what Mr Yakumato has heard is very little. I had the chance just the other day to reveal something. And it's good for the Minister to take a chance to see it. Mr. Minister and Mr. Yakoumate, there's a clinic where EOPY pays for seven hundred sixty days a year. Checks have gone, but you're not bored!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u20	The D.A. You should take it to the D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u21	Yeah, that's what I'm saying to see if the government's listening. We have listened with pleasure to the agonizing question 'if Maximos listens', Mrs Gerovasi today says that until the end of the year - and I hope that the Minister will confirm it here, and he will not fight - he says - the borrowers of first home. Of course, we also need legislation. Only a statement from Mrs. Gerovali is not enough. But the commitment, I believe, will be counterproductive. Minister, you are now coming to answer the information that says that you have a ready legislative initiative on voluntary disclosure by Greek citizens who have deposits abroad. So, looking for more revenue, but above all for tax justice to be imposed on this part, the information says that the government has drafted a bill providing for the legalisation of undeclared income that has been paid to banks over the last few decades. So today we want you to tell us whether it is true that there is such a bill that provides for this legalisation of undeclared money and whether this can also happen for what money is in Greek banks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We also want you to tell us whether you have come up with the taxation of undeclared money abroad and to the Greek banks, if it is true that taxation will be between 20% -21%, if the depositors - the holders of this money do not have to repatriate their money, but simply say it back to the tax office, and if those who have black money, in what sense can they make their money white. Is that also in your predictions, in your thoughts? Finally, if all of them choose this challenge, the procedure you may have for them, will they benefit from the removal of fines, increases or even the discharge of criminal liability? In fact, if they bring their money from abroad to Greece, will they have a higher tax discount? Do you intend to take any other measures apart from what has been indicated, what has already been done in the form of a bill? I look forward to the first answers with interest and I will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u22	Mr Alexiadis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u23	Mr Nicolopoulou, you bring an important issue to Parliament and I am happy to reply. The Ministry of Finance is actually preparing to bring relevant provisions to the Greek Parliament. Besides, it's our obligation under the agreement. We will do that because the next time the processes for creating, drafting, operating the enclosure will begin. All assets must be declared on the stock exchange. We therefore want to give a last chance to those of our fellow citizens who have money abroad or abroad and are not justified by their tax declarations. Because we're only talking about them. Those who have found money in other ways that do not honor them - but, unfortunately, this is the situation in Greece - and they have huge amounts, before we begin to give them a last chance to say it. We are also doing so, because the reserve will not be implemented with wishes. The enclosure will be implemented with a set of measures. And those who do not declare property of any kind, whenever and wherever they are located after the property register, will have serious tax, criminal, and other sanctions. What exactly the bill will say, as you understand, will bring it and discuss it in detail with the House with the partners, with the social partners. The framework in which we are moving is that these provisions should be on the one hand attractive, so that we can have a result. Because we have also seen in Greece and abroad similar initiatives that have not worked out in the past. Therefore, they must have the effect and have the money declared. On the other hand, on the other hand, it is these provisions that are not charismatic and that they do not allow for laundry, a process of closure or charismatic arrangements, as we have been used to, over the years. We move between these two limits. It is not yet clear whether they will be subject to a coefficient or whether they should be added to the tax declarations of the respective years. That's something we're looking at. Furthermore, it is unclear what incentives will be for this money to be declared. It is not clear, that is to say, whether they are exempted from all criminal proceedings and fines relating to the tax procedure. Because if it is money coming from drug trafficking, weapons, etc., it will not be legalized, even if it is declared. So we have a procedure there, and we are looking at incentives, but it is not the motives that are provocative, and we also have a procedure that we think about and look at the subject of money from both abroad and abroad. We also consider giving additional incentives for what money is abroad and has not been declared and returned internally, such as giving additional incentives to cases where this money is for control, because too many such cases are already for control, such as the Lagard list, foreign transfers and other statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Nicholas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what are you going to do with this money on the various lists you referred to at the end? You didn't tell us any more. I wanted you to tell us what phase you're in. Have you taken paper and pencil? Have you written them? Nikos Hadjikolaou wrote on Sunday that we suffer from the equivalent - and he used an expression not so flattering - of generalology, I would say, he said it a little too heavy. Do we have anything specific? It is interesting what you said, but you have avoided - I want you to believe deliberately - to tell us what taxation will be. I have referred to all the information I have to give you, but you have not told us. If you want, tell us something more. Is he coming fast? Have you made a committee yet? Did you find "soft" and you as Mr. Katrugalos found? That's enough of the Ministry's people. After all, you know well there and I hear that you evaluate them as they should and indeed have executives of the Ministry. They do not need "soft". But I wanted you to tell us, will there be special care for the Members who have their money abroad or who will go with the common mortals? How are they supposed to go, normally? Also, I would like you to tell us, since we are all looking for it - the government has this responsibility - for periodic expenditure, Mr. Sergiotis, you know him? It's over - it says - another independent authority. Yes, Mr Balafa, independent authorities. He got seventy employees from the independent authorities, Mr. Stergiotis, who is giving a gift with his behaviour of 6 million euros in illegal gambling. I will present it to you, Minister, by the way, because I believe that you will not stay in the Minutes, but you will indeed look at this whole party in a five-star hotel that took them - it says - to tighten up relations. I don't know what contacts Mr. Stergiotis wanted to get there from the independent game control authority, but it's worth it to see. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In closing, may I ask you to tell us, with all these lists, has there been any progress lately? Since the last time we heard that two to three hundred of the thousands have been checked, has any progress been made, Minister? It would be interesting to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u26	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. You put it right, Mr. Nicolopole, in relation to the lists. We are not proud of the Ministry of Finance with the control course and the procedure for all these lists we have. However, I would like to begin first of all with the issue you raised about the political faces on these lists. As we have said in the programming statements, in the targeting that we will start controls from 1-1-2016 - because in 2015 there is a specific strategic planning for what controls are being carried out - we will propose the cases for which control orders have been issued and which concern political people, the media, specific categories, that is, for reasons that you understand why. We want these cases to end by priority, given the presumption of innocence...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u28	The deposits from sea loans?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u29	Whatever cases such as this exist in control orders - because we have many cases in political persons and in the media that, while there are control orders, the checks have not been started and they will not be heard in any news release or in any retransmission, as you can see, between us will remain - nor have they started in some cases. In other cases they are carcinogenic and delayed. It is therefore a primary concept and aim of the Ministry of Finance that these control orders issued from the past, before Alexiades went to the office he went to the Ministry of Finance, should be promoted and fully clarified, given that - I say again - the presumption of innocence. As far as the issue of the various lists of the Ministry of Finance is concerned, we have a control problem in managing these cases, but with the extension of one year, we have saved thousands of Lagard cases from limitations on 31/12, and we will be able, with a specific strategic planning that we have, to the greatest extent and with a specific control procedure in the next few years. The checks are on the outside remittances and will be accelerated and made faster. The checks are on the other lists. Be sure that we have results and we will have very promptly and will be announced in the Greek Parliament. As far as the bill is concerned, this will come in the next few years. They don't compile it any alien or extra-institutional factors. We don't write it in English. It is drawn up in the Ministry of Finance. We have also received technical assistance from France on this matter. The bill is drafted. In a month or two at most, he will be in Parliament so that it can be discussed in detail before the enclosure begins. In conclusion, I would like to say that on the subject of Mr Sergiotis, I cannot make any mention, because it is the responsibility of another minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u30	The third question will be discussed with number 42/26-10-2015, the first question of the Members of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the restoration of damages and the payment of compensation to the affected by the naturality on 21-10-2015 in the laws of Elijah. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am sure that both you and Mr. Kourublis will know the dramatic consequences of the theorem that affected western Greece, Achaia, but mainly northern Elia, the area of the Municipality of Andravidas – Cyclones, Vuprassia, Lehana, Cyclenes at 21st, dawning 22nd of the month that passed us. I believe that you will also be known to have flooded houses in stores. We had disasters of public and municipal infrastructure and rural facilities, such as greenhouses. They flooded agricultural crops, bridges fell, bees came out into the sea. Fortunately, we didn't have human victims. Local services of the municipality and the region were directly activated. The district asked you to declare the area in an emergency and you responded. The timely question is addressed to you as a co-legislator - because it is also other ministries, but you are the expedient ministry - to tell us, to inform the House and the House of the affected, where the process of recording damages lies, what is the timetable for payment of compensation, what measures will you take to support and relieve the affected parties to meet production and survival needs, as, as I know and you will know, there are more than three hundred applications that have been raised and, above all, these are shops in the region of Bukrassia, but also in Lehasa, they are homes and rural facilities. I am not referring to the requests made in the ELGA, because the deadline expires on 5 November. That is why we would ask you to tell us exactly what is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u32	Mr Balafa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u33	Mr Kutsukouko, I find it very positive that, on the basis of your question, we have the opportunity to highlight the issue and contribute in a democratic way, in a creative way, with the criticism but also with the answers, to address the serious problem you are talking about. In fact, I would like to stress the speed - from a positive point of view - with which you, too - have put your question, but I think we are also answering your question today. We respond as a Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, as you know, its responsibility consists in the coordination of the relevant ministries to some extent from there and beyond, also in helping finance the people affected by the disasters of October 21st in your area, focusing on the area of northern Ilias - as you said - and in particular the Municipality of Andravidis and Kyllini. I think - and let us comment on this, there is no problem on our part - that the state in all appearances has moved relatively quickly and always, relatively effectively in this particular case. If there's any other placement or if there's any comments on this, we can really see it. For example, let us start from this Municipality of Andravidas - as you said - from the next day, there has been a printing of damage, and it seems that almost seems - we still did not have the final figures, we still have the figures on 30 October - that is, as far as the municipality is concerned - which concerns damage to houses, farms, schools, public buildings and other infrastructures, and requests for cars which have been destroyed in theory. I think the West Greek Region also responded satisfactorily. It was found everywhere and, among other things, sent the same day the request to declare the Municipality of Andravida - Cyclone in an emergency situation and the next day, on the 22nd of the month, it was the decision of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection to declare this declaration. It also called for funding for the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks to disburse EUR thirty thousand to deal with the direct damage to the municipality, a process that goes ahead and I believe that we will soon be able to achieve concrete results on this side. That is what we have in our ministry with the specific powers it has, because it does not cover the whole range of competences in this matter, which we are discussing. The Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction with the General Secretariat of Civil Protection on the one hand, gave instructions on the one hand to coordinate effectively from the first moment to all stakeholders, and this resulted in relatively satisfactory results. Especially in this matter, in this regard, I would like to applaud the attitude of the Fire Corps, the fire extinguishers, who I would say with a sufficient professional experience, but in some cases also with self-renunciation, were directly involved in the events. We had sixty-six incidents in this municipality, incidents of declaring and pumping water, and that relieved situations. On the other hand, our Ministry has cooperated and co-operated with the co-operating Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Labour, Finance and the self-government involved in two directions: on the one hand, these immediate relief measures for the affected - whether they be municipalities or citizens - and on the other hand, measures to prevent such phenomena, as far as possible. We are in close cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, because this is responsible for recording damage to buildings and wider infrastructure. We believe, I would say, that we want to contribute to the promotion, on behalf of this particular ministry, of the project called "Urgent Measures, Emergency Studies and Emergency Maintenance Projects to Combat Extreme Critical Opportunities", which is provided for in the Public Investment Programme and amounting to 10 million euros. With regard to the regular and extraordinary funding of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, I would like to say that overall the municipalities of the regional unit of Elias for 2015, from the beginning of 2015, have been financed with a sum of EUR 816.550 for projects protective and investment activities in the areas of projects. In addition, there is additional support - and I quote - this allocation to the Municipality of Helios, of the regional unit of Elias, EUR 150,000 for the programme 'Sixteen Natural Disasters for Prevention and Management of Damages and Disasters in the OTA'. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Let me finish. I'll talk a little bit in the second phase. I would also like to refer to the co-legislative ministries, because there is close cooperation, as we have said. The Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the 30th of the month had carried out a hundred and twenty-two autopsies in the municipal buildings. This process, according to their assurances, will be completed immediately. The completion of this process and this recording will lead to the necessary and anticipated joint ministerial decision, which will take relevant credit measures for housing assistance to the affected, i.e. buildings, infrastructure, etc. In other words, we are committed to pushing, speeding up the drafting and adoption of this joint ministerial decision, which will also demarcate the region concerned. Finally, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, a Ministry with which we are working in the context of the overall approach and a Ministry with responsibility for damages to plant and animal capital, has basically proceeded to the assessment of damages by the competent services of the ELGA and have already begun to submit the declarations referring to the damages caused to producers, in an effort to ensure that these producers are properly compensated. I am not saying that everything was done perfectly, but in a satisfactory way - relatively always and we are ready to accept any criticism to improve situations in the next period - the serious problems that have arisen in your prefecture have been dealt with on the side of the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Kutsuko, you have three minutes. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u35	Minister, I had no intention of criticising you, at least yet. It's early. Only ten days have elapsed, and as you said - I mentioned it in my position - at least the local services responded directly to both local government and state. The aim of my question is to enable you to proceed as quickly as possible. Because, Minister, you will be aware that Elias, from which I come and to which I am elected, is unfortunately a theocratic prefecture. Earthquakes and infections. We know exactly how difficult it is, at least in terms of bureaucracy, even if there is a political will to implement all of this, which is needed to compensate those affected and to relieve, strengthen and continue their economic activity and sometimes survive. Let me tell you attributes that since the flood at the Tower, when the hospital was flooded and houses and shops, half of them have still not been compensated. This was in 2012. And to tell you, too, that for last year's rainfall ELGA has not compensated those affected. We have a lot of experience, and that is why we want to push you and enable you to speed up these processes. You know very well that the CIA must come out that will declare the area as a floodblocker and that's where your ministry makes a significant contribution. As soon as the region is demarcated, the measures must be notified after the individual ministries. They are the measures of the Ministry of Infrastructure for the damages suffered by the dwellings, the measures to be done to compensate businesses - about what percentage you will compensate and when they will be compensated - are the measures that have to do with dealing with the damages suffered by public infrastructures and which need your aid, are the floods, because we had floods again in 2011, not such an area and must not be repeated. I remind you that the Verga river is protected by the Ramsar Treaty and requires studies. We need drainage works, alongside the national road, so that we don't have such phenomena. My question - and I want you to take a step further, if you can - is this: Will there be a suspension, as requested by the residents? Because so far I have to tell you, Minister, that in terms of communication we are going well, in the sense that a government step has been taken, such as the conference in Varda. Mr. Petropoulos and Mr. Bolaris were today. So will there be a suspension of the tax obligations of HICP, income tax, VAT on the affected companies? Is there going to be a suspension of payment of insurance contributions? These are the measures envisaged. They are constant procedures - I know them very well - and I want at least, if you are not able today to announce them, to show your political will so that people know how to do their job and to organise their professional and family life in order to stand up. That's what we ask of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u36	Mr Balafa, you have the floor. I'm holding you said you'd be shorter in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u37	Madam President, I will be very brief. The first is speeding up procedures. That is, according to your position, if there are still owed since 2012, and now we have 2015, the three years will be three months. I believe that sooner, but in any case, let us stay on this today. Of course, we are responsible for speeding up the procedures, but it is not about us entirely. And here I would like to stress this: there is this matter of co-responsibility, which often makes things difficult, as well as the bureaucracy, which unfortunately lives and reigns. But it is not our debate right now. We must press to complete the process - which will not be late - of recording so that by means of the joint ministerial decision we have the declaration of the region as a flood and that the process of credit actions for the benefit of the citizens, the municipalities of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Economy is completed as soon as possible in the interests of businesses. Finally, we will see the issue - I cannot say anything about the suspension of tax burdens - and I would like to be honest - which is not included in the demands we have made from the municipality, but in any case is a reasonable, reasonable and predictable measure of relief. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. There is a communication of 2 November 2015 to the House. I have the honour to inform you that under the decision of the President of the Parliament, under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Subcommittees of the Special Permanent Committees: a) Subcommittee on Water Resources of the Special Standing Committee on the Environment, b) Subcommittee on Disabled Persons of the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights and c) Subcommittee on Island and Mountain Areas of the Special Standing Committee on Regions. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u39	Now we will discuss the fourth question under number 52/27-10-2015 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning immediate measures to relieve the flooded at Attica. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as a JRC, we have repeatedly raised the issue of anti-Semitism and the anti-military works needed for our country. The lack of infrastructure and anti-military works in Attica resulted in enormous damage, as you know, and mainly the loss of human lives. Others are talking about five dead - the four are acquainted. It is no accident, Minister, that the disasters are once again concentrated in the people's districts of western Athens (Heidari, Mendi, Petroupolis, Agios Anargyroi, Cameroon and Illion), districts where there is no integrated anti-military planning and where we also have fragmentary interventions and projects in progress that are tempting and evolving into open wounds for the region. For once, Minister, homes and shops have flooded and filled with mud. They damaged hundreds of vehicles, as well as many infrastructures, such as the swimming pool and the sports center in Haidari, schools and streets. The absence of water retention work on the Polikilos Mount and the non-reconciliation of the Espatian medals filled whole areas with waters, muds and fertilizers, turned central roads into torrents, such as the Rimini and the Sacred Lochos roads. The streets of Agios Nikolaos and Olives were unaccounted for by large volumes of water and objects. In the Saints Anargyros, the main square was retransformed into a lake. Kifissus in some places overflowed. The chronic demolition of Kifissos, which was worsened by the rains, poses a high risk of road collapse both in Lambros Katsonis and part of Athens-Lamias national road. So we ask, Minister, what measures will the government take to ensure that damages are immediately recorded and emergency funding for the restoration and compensation of affected households and businesses, for all damage and for the restoration of damage to public infrastructure? A comprehensive planning and immediate start of projects for the anti-military armour of the Lefkanope must be made to protect the life and property of the people's families. We would like your answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u41	Mr Balafa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u42	And this question on the very serious issue you raise, Mr Katsotis, actually leads to a debate that is 'at a time' from the very serious catastrophic events in the area you are talking about, in the area of Attica more extensively, and I think that this debate, as we said before, can also help to find solutions, to promote and accelerate procedures, always in the context of the role of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, which, as you know, is not the only one that deals with the issues we are today. I'd like to be a little more specific than that. First of all, you know that the first step was taken, that is, in an emergency, the Municipality of Haidario, Saints Anargyros and Kamaterou, Acharon, Physicians and Hydra. At a meeting which took place immediately in the Attica region for the coordination of the entire effort, we also had a request for the rapid adoption of the joint ministerial decision to declare the region to be flooded, as well as for the provision of guidance to citizens and municipalities on the checks, records, valuations, etc. Finally, the need for the recording and valuation of losses to begin immediately, which has been done. This recording and valuation by the relevant ministries continues. And here I would like to say specifically about Attica that it is of particular importance and responsibility, from the point of view, for the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks with which we have good coordination and good cooperation. This is the responsibility for recording and valuation in the case of infrastructure and building facilities. Once this process of recording has been completed, as I have said before - a process that will not be delayed, in our view, and in the information and information we have - the relevant joint ministerial decision will be drawn up that will demarcate and restore damage to buildings and infrastructures, by taking the relevant credit measures for this particular housing assistance to the affected. Not even to ignore the role of municipalities in this matter, which was positive with the setting up of direct committees, but also to take immediate measures to tackle the problems. On the part of the Ministry, as I said in the previous debate, we have from the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, particularly from the Fire Force in a thousand and fifty-six cases, carrying out seven hundred and thirty-two water pumps, and that is very positive and undeniably we must extinguish it. And the Ministry has moved and moved to take immediate measures - many of them have already been taken - in cooperation with the co-responsible ministries and local authorities, the Region of Attica and, above all, with the affected municipalities, so that on the one hand we can prevent adverse effects, on the other hand, on issues - we will be talking about the prevention of similar situations in the future. I should like to say a word about the anti-military armour, which is a huge issue for the Attica region you mentioned. This is where I'm going to be even more specific. A total of EUR 34 million from the Public Investment Programme and EUR 218 million from the NSRF have been included in the project programme of the Region of Attica. Finally, the Development Planning Directorate of the Region of Attica, based on the 2015 Project Enforcement Plan, has included projects for counter-flood protection with own funding, totalling EUR 154 million. And we are not talking about one or two projects, but about the whole of Attica - this is a huge one - for a hundred and fifteen projects. For its part, the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks has proposed the inclusion of a specific project in the Public Investment Programme covering an amount of EUR 10 million. For large-scale projects in the affected area, Mr Katsotis, and it is the area you are talking about, we must say that there are three competitions for the studies. In particular, the Ministry of Infrastructure's Directorate-General for Infrastructure has already launched an international tender notice from the beginning of September of this year in order to outsource the study on delimitation of the Kefis River and update the settlement studies on the well-known stream of Espaia, which also had problems with this great flood. This study is a budget of approximately EUR 1.5 million and is expected to become a contractor by the end of the year. There is another intervention. A study has already been commissioned on the flow of Acharones, the well-known and unexplained soaps - in the floods, I would say - of about EUR 1,100,000 and a length of 12 km. There are still two important projects, which are reconciling projects, such as the estuary of the Kifissos River, which in these points of the contribution we have had particular problems. There's gonna be a plumbing proficiency check. And finally, a comprehensive anti-military shielding of areas in Attica has been proposed to the 2015 Public Investment Programme the tendering of an overall management study for Attica's long-term anti-military projects - I repeat - in the wider area of the Attica basin. Finally, with regard to the regular financing of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, I must say in particular that the municipalities of Attica were financed by the central self-resources, for the specific action called "Works and Investment Activities" in this year, with the amount of EUR 7,533 000. At the same time, I inform you - and I inform you, because it is in a sense happy, I would say, a positive coincidence - as far as the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction is concerned, with the preparation and promotion of decisions on the grant concerning a specific programme involving municipalities which have been particularly affected, and I can tell you that today the grant for the Municipality of Saints Anargyro - Kamaterou, Acharnon and Hydra, EUR 90,000, EUR 90,000 and EUR 60,000, respectively, has been signed. I think that some things I may have missed, I could have referred to my second position. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u43	You have the floor, Mr Kattotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u44	Minister, we said the West Attica was very passionate. It is not only this year that disasters took place, last year and year after year, and they take place every year. It happens, of course, that it is the month of October. And last year I happened to ask the government that was in October last year. Compensation has still not been paid to those affected since last year. So I say that the disasters in the region are not a fatal result of this bad weather. It is the natural consequence of a policy, Minister, which, as it seems, subjugates the life and collective interest of our people in the laws of profit. Because large flooding projects that should have been completed - and it is not just your responsibility - have been in Attica and elsewhere for decades now, are still in the process of announcements or studies. You have already said that, as far as certain projects are concerned, their studies are still pending. All the governments so far, as well as your own, as a political staff of capital, with your policy, you provide provocative funding for capital, you trade in the land, you finance only the so-called "eligible" projects, as well as the projects that are seen, i.e. "vitrine". Anti-military works, necessary for the safety and life of our people, are not financed. This is the policy that leads to the flooding, the destruction of property and the loss of lives. There are huge responsibilities, over time, of the governments, but also of the Attica region, which has been lagging behind here. And frugality means destruction. It means death. Winter is in front of us, Minister. It's not something that's been through and it won't happen again. The anti-military works in West Attica are, as I say, a matter of life and death for the inhabitants. The dynamic claim we believe is a one-way road. There are projects that need immediate implementation, so that some waters can be retained, that there is no disaster. You know that for last year's flooding, as I said before, compensation has still not been paid. We are saying that this should not be repeated again, that the people who suffered the disaster last year should be given compensation, and of course they should not be delayed. The recordings continue, as you say. The positive thing is that there is a rapid process. However, disbursement is what is lagging behind, as we have a year now that compensation has not been paid to people who have been completely destroyed by the floods. On this and, of course, on the main issue, anti-military works, the responsibilities are enormous and because we must not come back next year and talk about responsibilities, you must take them up from now and move on much faster to complete the necessary projects in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u45	The Minister has the floor, Mr Balafas, strictly for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u46	I heard what Mr Katsotis said, and I will say a few things too very soon. You, too, understand that it would not be possible in a ten-day period - literally, not a figure of speech - for this disaster to have occurred, for us to have done recording and disbursement, etc. indemnification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u47	We're talking about prevention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u48	I understand we have to hurry. We cannot stay in three years, as has been said before. These things must be done very quickly. I assure you, they will. A first sample of writing - because we do not need to zero everything - has been done to the three most affected municipalities in the area you are talking about. The two are municipalities of the 2nd district of Athens, the Municipality of Agia Anargyra - Kamaterou, two are of East Attica, the Municipality of Acharnon, etc., and also the island of Hydra, to which some grants were granted immediately. Now, with regard to the more general issue - which you have referred to in a long way - of anti-military armour, it is a very important issue that you are addressing. Has there been any work in this area over the years? It's obviously done. We're not children. In the past few years, we have remembered that terrible disasters have occurred in these regions and with very great losses. I don't want to go back to this era. Luckily, we're not at that time. I also told you very specifically, with specific codes, with specific time limits, for the end of the year, that these studies are being commissioned on very critical points, where very serious issues have been noted. I mean, the streams of latent, soap, Kifissus himself. So there we will put the weight of the study into the armour. I want to say one last thing to talk about it. Why in Attica are the phenomena so intense? Why? You mentioned a few reasons. I share them. But are any other reasons? First of all, the fires on the upstream, the mountainous tumors around our Lecanopoly. Are these fires - which are not random many times - due to various issues or even negligences? It is a huge issue created by these fires, as they are then naked in the mountains and all the water volume goes downwards, in the urban tissue and downwards. So it is a question of that. These are issues relating to the reafforestation and protection of the forests that have remained in the mountainous volumes of the Lecade. Secondly, where there is a wide-ranging responsibility - I would say - Mr Kattotis is in relation to the streams. You know, I've been studying the very old history of Attica, this wonderful Lecade, where the waters of the mountains were coming down and being channelled down to Kifissos, to Ilissos through dozens - not to say hundreds - of maybe bystanders and streams.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u49	It's the water roads. It's closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u50	Let's hear something. One minute and you'll get after the speech. Let me give my opinion on this matter. It was a normal situation. How did the streams get in? Why did they close the streams? Did the big chapter come and shut it down? Or what about different other sections of the population? Do we often make the wrong eyes even in our own municipality or in the region - regardless of who is responsible for the municipality or the region, the problem is not there - and we are leading to such catastrophes? Are we building up on the closed streams and making the wrong eyes to our contractor friend or car workshop? And what I'm saying isn't in the air. Because of my professional relationship, I know what's going on. We all know what's going on. There, then, we also need to see this when we put issues of demolition of illegal installations built over or next to streams, because the water goes down, it undermines the foundation and throws the house down. I say this with great care, as we all have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u51	You're just saying that. The responsibilities don't go to the people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u52	Wait a minute. You don't need to interfere. I heard you with religious devotion. You listen to me reverently, not religious. Listen to me as I hear you. Voices and outraged citizens, I personally do not tolerate. You'll talk later. Ask for the floor and speak. So please. There is no need for the Greek people to speak to each other. So I say that there is a responsibility - less you want? - smaller, but there is also a responsibility to negligent, micro-participatory benefits, which have to do with what I said before. All of this is added to what I have said in my protagonist on the issues of flooding in general, the assignment of studies with specific timetables and specific amounts that have been disbursed and the immediate acceleration in the provision of compensation to the affected municipalities and the affected families and citizens of this particular region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u53	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u54	You're not allowed, Mr. Katatotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u55	Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u56	It doesn't make any sense, Mr. Katatotis. Here, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u57	I won't need a minute. It is not the people who trade the land, but the system that undermines everything in the logic of profit. Bodosakis, Vardinoyannis, Latsis doesn't build in the stream. It builds up a poor man who cannot build anywhere else, who costs too much to buy, to put his head under a tiles. So we cannot blame the people. The streams are not closed by the people, this policy is closed, Minister. The water roads are not closed by the people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u58	All right, Mr. Katsotis, they're familiar.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u59	Okay, you convinced us. It's a good analysis, but it's out of place and time and it's not offering anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u60	Hey, how's it going to be? That's right. Let us now go to the projects that are necessary and never done. Was there a conversation in the Attica Region, did you follow her? Mrs Durou, who is in the Attica Region, said that in six months' time, she would have solved the issue of flooding in the region. So where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Katsotis, we said a minute and you're close to two.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u62	You want acidification. You can't stand the quiet conversation. You're telling me to pay indemnity in ten days!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u63	Here's the House, we're not the county. The first one under number 45-27-10-2015, a top-stage question for the first cycle of Congress of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Helen Stamatakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the delays in the work of the "Tram" in Piraeus, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and deleted. The first under number 44/27-10-2015 topical question of the second question of the Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the need for an immediate removal of the E/C-O/G ship "Mytilini" from the port of Karlovas Samos, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The second question under number 39/26-10-2015, the second question of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the exclusion of Technological Educational Institutions from the Ministry's invitation to participate in the seminar entitled "Training in the development and implementation of digital technologies in the teaching act", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister and deleted. The third, with number 49/27-10-2015, timely second question of the MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the reduction in cotton production due to intense rainfall in all the prefectures of Thessaly, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted. We will now discuss the fifth under No 48-27-10-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Potamos Flash MP Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the final solution to the problem of ICU nurses. Mr. Barriottas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'm afraid we're all alone! The issue is well-known and I don't think I need to argue about the problem of ITHs or their importance. Their dysfunction causes a chain reaction to the system, burdening the service of the wound, delaying surgery and - since days are such and we talk about transplants - it causes transplants to be lost, which is another huge problem and another huge wound. Although it is not just a lack of staff, there are many problems connected with the IFs. We have built many IF beds, we have invested many millions of millions in the IFs as a people, and the result is that two hundred out of about eight hundred fifty beds are currently closed, some are at risk of being shut down immediately and sometimes I feel that we are talking to the health system and not just to the IFs about spent money in buildings and machinery, which are devalued because of uselessness. The problem - which you are also aware of - is, very briefly, that the contracts of the hundreds of seventy-nine nurses who were hired through the CCCTB, to meet the acute needs of the ICMs, have expired in the past few days, and because of the legislation they cannot be renewed directly, but it needs a quarter of a gap, there is at the moment the threatened situation of shutting down certain beds, and I have already been told that some have already been closed down. In any case, it has been pointed out from a long time ago. The Director of CEDEFOP Mr Giannopoulos had announced that he would make a "bridge" by hiring these nurses until the block positions were reopened. Unfortunately, however, after a few days we have learned from Mr Polakis that this solution will not be chosen, that it will not be done. We all assumed that, since Mr Paulakis and the WTO, with which he had just met, were in the past fighting the blockage solution in the health system as a whole, because they were vaporisations and we had heard a number of them, we imagined that there would be another solution. Finally, we have come up with an average solution, as it turns out. There is a 20-day extension on the part of CEDEFOP, which is under way until 20 November, and finally the block will not do so by the CEDEFOP, because if they are ready, because, as we know, the Greek hospitals, as well as you, in twenty days' time, as many decisions as you have been able to sign for the revision of the budget, neither the administrative nor legal support, will they have and they will probably not be able to make any contract with a block, because they have not done so in the past and have neither the mechanism nor the knowledge. In any case, the information - and I hope you will deny me - is that many beds have already been closed. I'm sure sporadicly hung up some in the province. They closed, according to information I have - and I hope it's not true - half the beds in the hospital "Salvation". In other words, from the 20 beds of the unit, which were in operation, ten were left, precisely because many of the nurses because of the solution chosen, this'salamation' essentially - twenty days extension, may be blocked, may not - they did not sign extensions and they do not intend to continue at this rate, with the result that gaps are created. I would like, however, beyond this problem, which is a very important problem, to tell us how it will eventually be done, how the problem of intensive care units will be dealt with definitively or even in the medium term, as the positions that have been announced, as we will see, are fewer, for ICUs there are even fewer, and the problem is expected to become even more acute in the next few weeks. We said it is a very important problem, and I would like to hear why the solution chosen was chosen and why it did not continue with the seemingly simple solution to do what CICPIC is supposed to exist, that is, to make contracts, so that it could overcome the bureaucratic problems, which are data and we all know them and find them as you have found them. Why, then, did the relatively simple solution of the CEDEFOP not be chosen and it has become all that - with extensions, solutions, which would have been that way but were not and which have, as it turns out, changed, with the result that there is an impact on the CEDEFOP and that there is also medium and long-term uncertainty about the future of beds that operate with contractors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Secretary of Health, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u66	My dear colleague, thank you for the question, and I think it is an opportunity to give some answers, not so much about how the problem came about, but about how we have ensured that IM beds will not be threatened. That's what I think is of interest to the world. The picture I have is that at this time, which was indeed a period of fluid and precarious, because the contracts expired with several stepping-up workers, about a hundred ninety nurses and forty doctors who had taken place through CPRM since 2013 - some of them, of course, as you know, did not serve in intensive treatment units, were at the Peristeri Health Center or in other special units - there was a practical problem. First of all, you have rightly pointed out the very crucial role of intensive care units, increased care units and pups' intensive care units, because I think that is the whole range, in the operation, in the effectiveness of the health system. This is a very specialized service, which really offers support to sick people, patients fighting for life. I therefore think that every ministry of health and every government is interested in not putting this function at risk. The solution chosen was precisely because there was no possibility of extending contracts without a void quarter in which employees could reclaim their re-entry on the basis of existing legislation and texts - in any case - provisions. The interim solution seems to have been the only realistic one to ensure that staff do not leave. There has been a short-day extension with coverage of the CEDEFOP, that is to say, several of them have already been extended to hospitals - most of them - and the possibility will be obtained by amending the hospital budgets, which have been made since the increase in the expenditure ceiling, to have these positions declared in the respective units for a quarter and in the medium term the CEDEFOP will have completed the procedure for the new notice and at the end of the quarter there will be no discontinuance on this path. I think that in this way we are ensuring that experienced staff, which already has a long-term mandate in the system and, in particular, in these parts, the critical parts, will continue to provide its services and it will not be most necessary for these people to retrain so that they can be efficient and effective. The health system we know is in a very marginal state. In fact, we are fighting a battle as political leadership but, above all, the workers in the system to ensure their stability - this is the great wager of this period - to make the crucial support with human resources which will enable him to provide reliable public-health services to the citizens of a country that is going through a very serious and protracted economic and social crisis. In the first package of recruitments we have already launched, the first package of nine hundred and eighty-five permanent staff has been completed, and for the first time - we stress this because we think it is important - permanent posts are being declared in the public health system after six years. And it follows a second set of two thousand four hundred forty that we hope will be launched early in 2016. It is a signal that the process of bleeding human resources from the system and disorganising public structures is stopping, restraining and a very great effort will be made to upgrade the national health system as a whole. I think that through targeted recruitments that will characterise the second set of units, they will involve specific sections, ICUs, MENs, artificial kidney units, oncological sections, psychiatric sections, TLUs, we will be able to improve very specifically the services and the citizens will also know that the public health system is capable of being paid to workers. Here, we have to say that especially the workers, doctors and the rest of the staff at the ICU are working under conditions of exceptional stress. A very large proportion of these workers - it is said by bibliography - have occupational neutralization syndrome, Burn out syndrome. The state, in fact, with great gratitude, has to deal with these workers and, as far as possible, try to be all right in the basic financial obligations towards them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor. Please be precise in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. I do not disagree, first of all, with what you have been saying in the last few days, although I have some questions, when the Minister himself says that the system is on the brink of blackout and can be extinct. I'm glad you say that, too. I've been seeing it for a long time. That's the truth. Since you went to the nine hundred and eighty-five seats, I would like to point out that the nine hundred eighty-five seats that were opened after - as you said - six years and then a bar of announcements - were announced, I remind you, since Marilissa and announced every fifteen days - are hardly covering the retirements of 2015. We have a negative staff balance. It would be a mistake, however, to stay only on staff, in essence speaking. We both know that the problem of the health system is not the number of staff, not even the funding. They're two important pillars. The system, however, needs much greater reforms and much more serious changes than covering organic positions, these alone. However, the positions also raise questions, since you have raised them and I would like to raise them: the criteria on which the choices are made. I'm glad you're referring to the second round. Let's see him for the second round, because as I told you, the announcement of the announcement and again the announcement has made me very cautious. You only have ten months' history of announcements of different number of posts. The Prime Minister had said about four and a half thousand when he visited the Ministry in the spring. The day before yesterday, you said three thousand two hundred seats. It's the sum you said before today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u69	Three and a half thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u70	I hope he's there. It's a drop in the ocean again. You know that. What are the criteria? The University Hospital of Larissa, along with the old - because it's just one on paper - is one of the largest units in the country. Of the ninety-eighty-five places she gets eight. Yesterday, the workers reported - and we'll say it within the week, I hope - a hundred forty-two gaps only in nursing personnel. The eight are no nurses. The gaps in doctors are even bigger. There's a matter. I would like you to tell me on what criteria the distributions are made, because in the system for doctors, as you know, there is a very bad one, in my opinion, before OENGE comes to the test, which I consider to be a mistake. It's the OENGE that determines doctors' gaps in the ESS. I'd like to know who's who's dealing with the staff's gaps. Is there an algorithm? Is there some kind of service? How's it going? On which criteria are blanks in the University of Larissa and are not covered in PAGNE and vice versa? Is there a way? That is an important question. The details are often very important, Minister. The other issue you have not answered is what will happen in the short term. Because I listened to you the day before yesterday as an optimist that the first of the permanents, of the nine hundred eighty-five, will enter with the new year. Experience says that at best six months until the day of appointment, and many times it takes more than time. I hope we'll stay as soon as we can that's six months. In the intervening period there will be huge gaps in vital services. I would also like to point out something that you know about, and I would also like to ask you: today, I was talking to the workers. They'll visit you tomorrow at the Ministry. Four hundred subsidiary contracts are concluded in the health system in December administrative and nurses, who perform critical tasks in many hospitals in the country. Will there be any possibility of another extension of time or will the system remain without the support of the workers concerned and of course the workers without their jobs? There's a lot of gaps coming, plus the departures. There is one problem in the medium term, even if three and a half thousand - four thousand - are appointed. In the mid-term there is a huge gap that is not easily covered and is vital for the system. Is there a way? Is there also a political framework? So far we have known that your party is opposed to the block, to the HAN, to DRG and to all of this in general. At the moment, we do not have a political framework for health. I think it makes sense. It takes some time. But will there be a contour political, a targeting? Because by shutting holes and closing down and making patches, which we have all done since 2009 and since the past, I do not think we will go anywhere without specific targets for how the system will be reformed. I don't think he can go any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor for three minutes, and you have the exact floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u72	Mr Barriott, I think that the opportunity has also been given in the past to say what the political direction is...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u73	It's one of the budgets, Minister. It's 4.5% of GDP. It's minimal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u74	Do not cover the minister's time. Let him go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u75	The financial framework, Mr Barriotta, is obviously a given one and it is a restrictive one. But in this unfavourable financial landscape, for the first time this year, we have managed to increase the expenditure limit for public hospitals. This was a significant injection of liquidity. It gave hospitals an important opportunity to meet their obligations towards suppliers and thus to smooth their supply with health material, but also to increase their ability to recruit subsidiary staff. Already these days, appointments of subsidiary doctors have been signed with the Ministry. There are five hundred fifty requests for subsidiary doctors from all over Greece, which have committed appropriations from hospitals and which we move through the new system that we have created with lists per speciality. We will try as quickly as possible to get these recruitments moving. At the moment, too, the recruitment of permanent staff is progressing. Especially in the previous days, we signed several recruitments of Curators II from the old crisis of 2010 and 2011, which happily happened to involve ITH in large hospitals in Athens. So the effort there is is to strengthen the system every day. The first package was launched in a sense - let me say the term - an equal distribution of certain staff - nurses and paramedical staff mainly - to all the hospitals in the country. Needs are huge and we had to fill the most urgent gaps. I said before that the second package will be more targeted, precisely to support parts and functions that are very critical of the performance of the health system. I think our strategy is very clear. There is a strong bias against public care. We want to ensure the operational stabilisation of the health system today in our country, because it is necessary for the world to do so, to cause the moralisation of the system and reduce its pathogenesis and distortions and, above all, to reorganise it with a centre of weight in primary care. That is the plan, and I believe that we will soon be able to provide much clearer information on the roadmap in this direction. There are major changes and reforms in both the management of the health system and the operation of primary public health and mental health in our country. We are prepared and determined to move on. I think that really the great challenge of this period is to invest in human resources in the health system, in a well-trained and worthwhilely selected human resources, to reverse the migration current of medical and health potential to the outside. This is the great challenge of the next period. We believe that the public care sector, as in general the social state sector, is a privileged place for this government, to give a social compensation mark against a burden caused by the agreement and the measures. We are in agreement with the intensified scientific companies and we will immediately establish a working group to discuss changes and reforms throughout the system, from access of the emergency to the TLP until it is handled in the intensive care unit and also the treatment after it. This part of the management of these incidents is very critical. We therefore want, in particular, with an effort that we are going to make, to strengthen TTs with qualified staff. Perspectively the goal is to work at a circular hour, so that we can increase security standards to the frontline of the system. We are doing all these interventions with a final aim of upgraded services to the citizen. I think that the service offered by intensive care units is not questioned by anyone. As far as the criteria are concerned, because you have referred to the criteria, we are not appointing, Mr Barriotta, under the well-known and outdated customer logic. We, as a Ministry of Health, have asked the Ministry of Health to evaluate the priorities set by the hospitals in the country, filter them, hierarchy them, and based on these distributions, have made the final announcement of the positions. That's how the next call will be made. We'll set the targets. We'll tell who the department and the clinics need to be strengthened. Today, for example, there is a very serious issue in most surgery due to a lack of anaesthetics. So it's a specialty that needs to be supported in particular. These evaluations will be carried out and then the Directors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also discuss with the administrations and the scientific councils and the unions, of course - because unions must also tell us their opinion - whether doctors or other workers, to make a distribution of human resources, serving a sense of law and a democratic distribution of limited human and material resources in our country today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u76	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-02-S1-commons.u77	With the consent of this House at 19.38' the sitting on Wednesday, November 4, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
