ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the House is convened and the first formal sitting of the First Chamber of Parliament is opened. In accordance with Rule 1 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the younger Members of Parliament are invited to attend the Bureau to assist Mr Marios Katsis and Mr Efstathos Giannakisdis and from New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Kefalonianis and Mrs. Niki Kerameos. I would ask that they understand their positions in the Bureau of the President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the Presidential Decrees Nos 66/2015 and 76/2015, which are tabled in the Minutes and which are as follows: The first Presidential Decree is as follows: ‘The President of the Hellenic Republic Having regard to the Treaty establishing the 1. The provisions of Articles 35(1) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure shall apply. 2 Case. C and 37 par. Third paragraph of the Constitution. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The fact that: (a) the exploratory orders given to the leaders of the first, second and third parties to parliamentary parties have not been completed; (b) during the consultation of the President of the Republic with each of the leaders of all the parties on 27 August 2015, both the inability to form a government which has the confidence of Parliament and the failure to form a government of all the parties in Parliament for the purpose of holding elections was confirmed; and (c) We commissioned, by the 63/27-8-2015 P.D. (A 104), to the Royal Death - Christophilus, President of the Ice Bay, the formation of a government of broader acceptance to hold elections, to decide: We dismantle the PF's Period of President-in-Office of the Republic, invite the voters to elect MPs on September 20, 2015, Sunday, and call the Parliament that will arise from the elections on October 1, 2015, Thursday and at 11 a.m. The Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction shall entrust the publication and implementation of this Decree to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction. Athens, 28 August 2015 The President of the Republic Procopios B. Pavlopoulos The Prime Minister King's Sp. Thanano - Christophilus’ The second presidential decree is as follows: ‘The President of the Hellenic Republic Having regard to the Treaty establishing 1. The provisions of the interpretative declaration referred to in Article 41 of the Constitution, 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The provisions of P.D. 66 of the 28th of August 2015, which dissolved the PF Parliament, an election was held on 20 September 2015 and the House was convened at the 1st regular session on 1 October 2015. 3. The proposal by Prime Minister Alexios P. Tsipras for an extension, by two days, of the deadline for convening the House at a Session, established by P.D. 66 of 28 August 2015, we convene: the parliament, which came from the elections of 20 September 2015, to the First regular meeting on October 3, 2015, Saturday and at 11.00 p.m. instead of 1 October 2015, as we set with the P.D. See recitals 66 to 28 of the opening decision. The Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction shall entrust the publication and implementation of this Decree to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction. Athens, 25 September 2015 The President of the Republic Procopios B. Pavlopoulos The Prime Minister Alexios P. Tsipras’
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-03-S1-commons.u2	I also have the honour to announce to the House the letters from the Prime Minister and the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups on the choice of the House, which will be tabled in the Minutes. The Prime Minister and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, by letter to the President of the Parliament, Mr Constantopoulos, announced that he was choosing to elect his election in the constituency of Heraklion instead of the constituency of Larisa. The Chief of Staff of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Evangelos Meimarakis, by letter to the President of Parliament, Mr Konstantopoulou, informs that he chooses his election in the district of Athens rather than the constituency of the Prefecture of Heraklion. The Secretary-General and Chairman of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, Nicholas Michaloliakos by letter to the President of the Parliament Mr Zoi Konstantopoulou tells us that he chooses his election in the 1st Athens constituency instead of the 2nd Athens constituency. The President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group - DIMAR Mrs Fotini Genemas, by letter to the President of the Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, informs that she chooses her election in the district of Athens rather than in the district of Achaia. The President of the Group of Parliament, Mr Vassilis Leventis, by letter to the President of the Parliament, Mr Constantopoulos, informs us that he chooses his election in the 2nd Athens constituency instead of the 1st Thessaloniki constituency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-03-S1-commons.u3	I inform you that after Sanctuation the oath laid down in Article 59 will follow, then the Koran oath and finally the political oath. Mr Marios Katsis, the temporary secretary, is invited to accompany the Makarios Archbishop of Athens and all Greece Mr. Hieronynos and the accompaniments of this Sacred Sacred Session in the Chamber in order to celebrate the Sanctuation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-03-S1-commons.u4	I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to raise their right hand, joining the thumb, the marker and the finger, to give the oath laid down in Article 59 of the Constitution. Please repeat the oath. [[The provisional President, Nikitas Kaklamanis, standing in the Chair, recitees the following oath, repeated by all Members, other than those belonging to the Moslem religion and those wishing to give the political oath.]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousia and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to the homeland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfill conscientiously my duties." They're worthy! Please begged that the provisional Secretary, Mr Marios Katsis, should proceed with the Makariot Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, Mr. Hieronynos, and the accompaniments to him of the Continental Holy Synod. [[This is where the Makariot Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, Mr. Ieronymos, and the accompaniments of this Continental Holy Synod leave the Chamber.]] Please beg the honourable Members who belong to the Mohammedan religion to come and give the oath laid down in the Constitution on the Koran. Please, ladies and gentlemen, repeat the oath. "I swear in the name of Almighty God and his only Prophet, who is Muhammad, to be loyal to the Fatherland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to be conscientious to my duties." They're worthy! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a written statement by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece has been submitted calling for political oath. "It is known that the JRC has advocated the separation of States and the Church and the full safeguarding of the right of anxiety. In this context, it has also proposed abolishing the religious type of oath as compulsory, wherever provided for, inter alia, by the oath of Members. The MPs give him the political oath, considering that the oath refers to defending the rights and interests of the people. Athens, 2-10-2015 The Declon Dimitrios Koutsoubas Chairman of the JRC Parliamentary Group." It's submitted for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-03-S1-commons.u5	With your consent, I would ask the ladies and gentlemen who wish to give the political oath to rise. I would like to ask, like colleagues who swear on a political oath, that they were standing up when we were sworn to the religious oath, for reasons of courtesy to stand up. [[Applause]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, repeat the oath. [[The provisional President, Nikitas Kaklamanis, standing in the Chair, denounces the following oath, which is repeated by those Members who wish to take the political oath.]] "I assure my honor and conscience that I will be faithful in my homeland and democratic city, I will obey the Constitution and the laws, and I will be conscientiously fulfilling my duties." They're worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-03-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-03-S1-commons.u7	The House granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain in their seats for the signing of the Observation Protocol and the receipt of an information file, which is already in your seats, so as to complete their vowing process. I would remind you that, if the protocol is not signed, the oath procedure is not completed. I also inform you that, after the election of the President, the election of the Vice-Presidents and the Quaestors and Secretaries will follow, so as not to trouble my colleagues coming back some time late in the evening. So around 13:30, we'll have the next election. Thank you for your cooperation, the Secretaries, the officials of the House and I personally. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
