ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 4-11-2015, the minutes of the IZ meeting were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Wednesday, 4 November 2015 (morning) as regards the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Undoing the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the cooperation and activities of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the Hellenic Republic’.]] Accreditation of the quorum, entering the LEGISLATIVE WORK For the purposes of adapting Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, as amended by Council Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013, ‘For the adaptation of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 29-10-2015 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. At tomorrow's meeting, the articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed as a unity. I would like to inform you that if a roll-call vote is tabled at first, it will take place tomorrow at 12 noon, before we begin the debate on the articles. If there is a request for a roll-call vote on the articles - which I have already been informed by the representative of a party that there will be - then we will unite the two votes, so that the Members are not troubled, and it will take place tomorrow evening at 21: 00 - 22: 00, which will end. We call it cheap, we will see how many colleagues will be registered. Secondly, the Minister will speak after the rapporteurs. But we would like, Minister, in good time today, to inform you from the parliamentary amendments if you accept some of the amendments and what, for my fellow Members to know tomorrow, when they are placed on the articles, of the amendments that you have accepted or which you will not accept. I would also like to inform you that a late Ministerial amendment from the Ministry of Health has been tabled a moment ago - tomorrow it will be debated - regarding the managers of hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u2	Two government amendments have been put in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u3	Now Mrs. Perifanou informs me that two more went on the way. We'll know tomorrow morning. The corresponding letters for the Parliamentary Representatives have come. SYRIZA is designated by Mr. Famelos Socrates, from New Democracy Mr. Vroutsis, from Golden Dawn, from the Pappas, from the Democratic Incorporation Mr. Theocharopoulos, from the Communist Party Mr. Karathanasopoulos, from the Potamis Theocharis, from the ANELs Mr. Papachristopoulos and from the Central Association Mr. Karras Georgios. In order not to waste time, they have been designated by the parties and the rapporteurs and special speakers. The prototype of the Parliamentary representatives is 12 minutes, of the rapporteurs and of the special speakers, 15 minutes. If for what I have said there is no objection from any wing, let's start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u4	Did you say that the list of speakers is uniform?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u5	Oh, no. In principle. If it doesn't run out tonight by the twelfth night, as usual, they'll be promoted tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u6	They'll be added tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u7	Yes, those who want the articles will be added and those who do not speak today will be promoted and spoken at the outset and on the articles as always. Let us start with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Sifakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u8	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u9	Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u10	I would like to say that I heard you a moment ago saying that an amendment was tabled by the Ministry of Health. It would be a good thing if the Minister himself came to explain to us what it is. Rumors say it is about eviction from the administration of all hospital administrations. It is therefore necessary for the Minister to come in and explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u11	Mr Brutsi, these are three amendments. We'll see. I said one, but on the way, two more were tabled. You're right about what you're saying and that's how it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u12	Secondly, we have spent the entire time of the committee without presenting the Minister for Maritime Affairs, who has important and critical provisions in this bill and has not come to explain to the committee what provisions these are and why he recommends them. So I would now ask the Minister for Maritime Affairs to accept Parliament and the parliamentary procedure and to give an explanation of the provisions he introduces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u13	Okay. As you know, the President-in-Office cannot impose. Well, it would be a good thing if Mr. Drizzas were here. Looking at the list, I don't see his name on the ministers that have been written on behalf of the government to speak. I hope Mr. Drits will be here by tomorrow. He's an old parliamentarian. Mr. Sifakis, I'm sorry for the delay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u14	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are recommending a draft law, including a series of provisions prerequisites for the agreement of 14 August and not, concerning the Ministries of Environment and Energy, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economics, Development and Tourism, Culture and Sport, Maritime and Island Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, as well as financial and structural regulations. The resolution of these measures will contribute to the immediate completion of the first assessment, the disbursement of the 2 billion-dollar subsistence, the payment of outstanding public debts and ultimately the stabilisation of the economy. Rehabilitation of stability is a precondition for restarting the economy, exiting the protracted crisis, fighting the people and the country for social protection, social justice, development with a new productive model and redistributing for the benefit of the poor and the middle classes. With regard to the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the main legislation introduced by this Legislation is to harmonise Greek legislation with Directive 27/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 and to improve the applicable legal framework for energy efficiency. In particular, the proposed draft law sets an indicative energy efficiency target, while measures and actions are envisaged to improve it in all areas of economic activity, in order to achieve a savings of 20% in energy consumption by 2020, in relation to final consumption if no measures were taken in this direction. It should be noted that Directive 27/2012 is, in fact, the implementation of the general environmental and energy targeting set by the European Union, which is summarised in the well-known 20-20-20, namely a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the penetration of RES into the energy mix by 20% and energy savings by 20% by 2020. The draft law incorporating the directive was put into public consultation for the second time by the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on 26 June 2015 and the necessary improvements were made. Following the meetings of the parliamentary committees, the consultation of bodies and the discussion referred to in Article, it is clear that the main subject of the draft law, as regards the incorporation of the Energy Efficiency Directive 27/2012, is consensus both on the need for integration after the long delay, as the directive had to have been incorporated since June 2014, as well as on the arrangements for how to achieve savings. In the public sector, it is planned to renovate and achieve the savings of 3% on the surface of the private buildings of the public with a beneficial surface of more than 100 square meters and an obligation for regions and municipalities to prepare action plans for the renovation of their buildings, even the public to buy or rent energy-class buildings at least C. As far as the private sector is concerned, a system of enforcement is introduced for energy distributors and retailers in combination with policy measures, with the aim of avoiding the public taking over all the costs of savings. Energy distributors and energy dealers are specifically required to save 1.5% of the volume of energy sales to final consumers of all energy distributors or all energy retailers of the average of 2010, 2011 and 2012, i.e. saving up to 2020 3,332,7 tonnes of oil equivalent. The draft law essentially encourages distributors and retailers to enter energy services themselves, achieving a balance between the loss to be borne by reduced consumption due to savings. In any event, the obligor parties may contribute to the Energy Efficiency Special Fund established to finance energy efficiency measures, with an amount equivalent to the investments required for the implementation of their obligations. The resources of the new fund will come mainly from contributions from energy distributors, distribution network operators and energy retailers, as well as from revenues resulting from the application of the law. The fund is also given the opportunity to direct resources from the annual emission allowances for pollutants. As regards the measurement, distributors and retailers are obliged to supply consumers at competitive prices with individual meter when replacing a meter or a new connection to a new building or a radical renovation of a building. Every six months, they are also obliged to post the results of their actions to improve energy efficiency and even to produce data for consumers and companies of energy services in terms of consumption. A register of energy services companies shall be established and the types of energy efficiency contracts set out. The draft law helps to promote the establishment and efficient operation of companies - ESCOs. The aim is to achieve savings, but also to stimulate employment in building, in particular, sectors that will undertake the construction of energy upgrading measures, but also in many other sectors that will manage these operations. A system of energy audits shall be established by independent accredited auditors, for which the branches from which they originate, their professional rights and the procedure for their certification are described. All possible support for cogeneration and efficient heating and cooling shall be promoted for the development of efficient district heating, cooling and/or slitting infrastructures and use of heating and cooling from discharged heat and renewable energy sources. The obligation of the thermal installations to carry out a benefit analysis and the design or renovation of thermal installations with a power output greater than 20 MW shall be established to identify possibilities for the implementation of high-efficiency cogeneration or efficient district heating or cooling. The draft law promotes the development of a plan within the next six months to address energy poverty, in which actions related to improving energy efficiency and other social policy measures or invoicing of energy will be reflected. The issue, ladies and gentlemen, of energy poverty is a major social issue in the country, as the economic crisis in recent years has caused many households difficulty in maintaining proper conditions of heating and covering and other essential energy needs at reasonable prices. The proposed provision attempts to deal with the phenomenon by identifying energy sensitive social groups and proposing measures to relieve them. The Renewable Energy Centre is defined as a national coordination centre for the activities related to the savings and rational use of energy. Provision is also provided for arrangements concerning the maintenance fee for electricity licences, the satisfaction of the main professions of farmers - electricity producers, the extension of guarantee periods for the maintenance of electricity supply in RES projects, the extension of leases to PPC of renewables, in order to complete the research work and to install geothermal power plants in the Geothermal fields of Milos, Kimolos, Polyaigos, Nisyros, Lesvos and Methanes, as well as other arrangements of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. This draft law includes a very important regulation which is the implementation of a commitment by the Prime Minister and the Government following the exception of the coastal zone of the former Drapetson fertilisers under the public concession agreement to the PPA. An amendment to the Regulatory Plan of Athens - Attica and the general urban plan of the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas is envisaged to review the planned land use and construction conditions. A pole of super-local range will be created with cultural, education, health, sport, green and recreational activities. In this way, a six hundred acre sea front is attributed to the inhabitants of the region and the entire western Piraeus, restoring their free access to the sea, justifying their struggles for decades. The government will continue the struggle to reverse the deterioration of the municipalities and neighbourhoods of Piraeus II and improve the quality of life of their inhabitants. This draft law also provides that the National Waste Management Plan, the ECHR, is annulled by a Ministerial Decision approved by the Ministerial Council. The Regional Waste Management Plans, the RCF, are decisions of the Regional Councils following an opinion from the relevant Region Association and an opinion from the Regional Consultative Committee, as well as an opinion from the relevant Home and Environment and Energy Secretarys, approved with regard to their compliance with the ECHR by the respective Ministers. This article was amended by the Minister in a discussion in committees, following the expression of opinions and bodies, in a way that safeguards the autonomy of local government. Also, in the forestry regulation, there was a ministerial amendment to the committees towards further protection of forest wealth and the possibility of implementing projects that had been approved to intervene in public forest land before the fires were destroyed. The draft law regulates a series of issues of the Ministry of Education of Research and Religious Affairs concerning the introduction of higher education, registration of graduates awarded in Olympics, educational staff councils, Ministry of Education and Education officials, further issues of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism for the elections in chambers, extensions of authorisation to incorporate Community directives and other issues of a financial and structural nature. The time period of the adjusted rate of excise duty -200 euros per kilogram of diesel gas oil for agriculture - starting from 1-10-2015 and ending on 30-9-2017. After that date there will be no special status for farmers. We would remind you that this provision in its essence has already been adopted on 14 August in the agreement. Only the expiry date of the first scheme and the transition to the second one is specified here. Staff transfer arrangements from the IORP to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue are also regulated and the number of priority cases transferred to the General Secretariat of Public Revenues increases, covering all cases on the Lagard list and others respectively. Themes of the Ministry of Culture and Sport are still regulated, as are maritime and island policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the nature of this bill is such that it would allow shocks from all the sides of this House. Nevertheless, despite the fact that the vast majority of articles of this article concern the incorporation of the Energy Efficiency Directive, which was generally accepted by all sides in the debate in the committees, the opposition has chosen the way of refusing to vote at first instance during the debate in the committees. Following the changes made by the Ministers and with the absence of the article on small brewery, we call on the parties to revise their initial position. To vote in favour of it in principle and to see whatever comments they make in the debate on the articles. The draft law incorporates the very useful Energy Efficiency Directive and regulates various ministries' issues, contributing to the rapid return of the necessary stability, opening up the way to financing the country, discussing the reduction of public debt, relaunching the economy with a view to productive reconstruction and development geared to social needs, social protection and redistribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u15	And I thank you for saving time. MEP Mr Theodoros Fortsakis asks for a short-day absence abroad from 15-11-2015 to 18-11-2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u16	The House approved the requested permission. In order to adapt Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013, ‘For the adaptation of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions’. Mr. Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, finally it turns out in the way of legislating this bill that unfortunately the main problem of the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Tsipras, and his government is the sluggishness. Total lack of plan to an exaggerated degree. No plan - and we are not talking about an integrated strategy - for any area of economic, social or political activity in the country. Evidence of the sloppiness and the total lack of plan is unfortunately also the recurring of top government ministers, with the latest example of the well-known Mr. Friend. Unfortunately, in all the problems faced by the country, ladies and gentlemen, we also have the involvement of some ministers, who as apprentices are involved in critical foreign policy issues, which in addition to others touch the sensitive strings of all Greeks and especially Greeks with the origin of Podo. After the question of the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, about the existence of a maritime border, now comes Mr. Friend and gives his own scientific definition of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou, describing it - listen! - as a bloody ethnic cleansing. We are really wondering - it is worth wondering - whether it is one of the many last-time top-level government ministers - unforgivable for the status of such ministers - or whether, ladies and gentlemen, it involves some feasibility. Does Mr. Friend pursue some kind of policy towards Turkey? Has Turkey realised that it is grabbing, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, such statements and opportunities to legalise the guilty past in the international community and thus continue to add to the agenda of bilateral disputes and new claims, on the occasion of statements by our Greek ministers of the Greek Government? It is, however, even more obvious that the obsessed ones, which unfortunately have removed even the elementary logic, prove that the government itself, but also that, ladies and gentlemen, is characterized by a lack of moral and political virtue. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Another example of curiosity and peculiarity is this draft law, which we are discussing, which entered the House in accordance with the urgency procedure, because, as the Co-Police rapporteur said, but also the relevant Minister in the committee, is, he says, supposedly prerequisite for the completion of the evaluation and the disbursement of the dose. However, from the first committee and the first meeting I ask, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, and he has still not answered these questions: which of the sixty articles are prerequisites? Is Article 51 which increases the excise duty on oil, from EUR 66 to EUR 200, the oil of farmers, farmers and fishermen? Is it not, ladies and gentlemen, that Article 52, which has risen the tax on beer in a strange way only to the Greek small and medium-sized brewery, which has been voted against since the strong reaction of the New Democracy and the anti-population parties? Was that a prerequisite? You see, however, ladies and gentlemen, that your partners in the government, the ANELs, have voted against it and gone away with little jumping on such important issues. Is Article 28 prerequisite for Drapetsoni and Kerazini, which are supposed to be a solution to the major problem that people really have there, namely the downgrading of the area, but which is just a communal terminology within these three hundred and fifty pages, to mock the citizens and the inhabitants of those degraded areas once again? I warn you, Minister, and I mentioned it to the committee: do not bring at the last moment at this sitting or tomorrow any strange amendments with extra tax cuts which once again burden the weak with an allegedly social aspect. However, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this parliamentary term and so far all the bills, which have come for debate, have come in two procedures: either by the urgency procedure or by the urgency procedure. No bill has come under the normal procedure, to have time to talk about it and understand the world and its citizens what you are doing and how you govern and not to understand that a tragedy takes place day after day in the country as the country and its economy is destroyed. This, of course, is also demonstrated by the financial results of the eight-month period, which have nothing to do with what you have received. The results show a recession, an increase in unemployment, budgetary gaps. You are missing 2,5 billion revenues in the nine-month period, compared with last year's corresponding nine months and, otherwise, you are bringing extra taxes to cover these holes, new measures, are supposed to be socially relevant, but by magic the weakest social groups, pensioners, employees and the unemployed are to blame. What good have you done in these nine months? What's going on in the country? Say, ladies and gentlemen, one thing that went well this nine-month-old of your own 'progressive' governance. You are professing to be social sensitivity and the protection of the weak and otherwise abolish pensions and benefits for the elderly, increase VAT in the nursing homes, reduce the beneficiaries - new this morning! - and the subsidy of heating oil, which you, incidentally, owe from the beginning of the year to give. Did you promise the people who voted for you and who received the notes of the allegedly abolished ENVA? But it is not only that you bring a bill of intellect, in accordance with the urgency procedure, that all the bills you have brought are both rough and hastily and ineffectively. It is demonstrated in Article 1, that you are correcting errors of a bill, which you brought and voted ten days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, all this time in the end all seven - eight months, but also after the elections, we hear words and only words. Great words, nice words, beautiful words, but after the many words we notice that the country, but also the citizens, are poor day after day. On the other hand, I must tell you that you are not seeking any consensus, because if you were to reach a consensus on these three hundred pages and 61 articles in the bill, whose main body is the harmonisation of a Community directive that we could conclude and vote on, you would bring it on its own. But within it you come and very wickedly put three - four articles, just to pass them. Because that is essentially what you are interested in, it is not the harmonisation of the directive. You could have brought this and voted for it nine months now. It was a bill ready. The previous government had prepared it with Minister Maniotis, who, in order not to pay and a penalty, had also submitted the country's National Energy Efficiency Action Plan, so that the country would not pay a fine by day. In the meantime, I have said again - since you dropped the government, not voting and not agreeing to the election of the President of the Republic, nine months have passed. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, this project consists of energy issues that are focused on a framework of measures to promote energy efficiency, so that our country also contributes to the European Union's goal of saving some 20% of primary energy by 2020, compared to 2007, and this is actually implemented by improving the energy adequacy of our country's entire building - housing, commercial buildings, public and private - on condition that they improve their energy efficiency. Therefore, the articles of the draft law focused on the building stock, the logic of an exemplary role of these buildings, according to the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan submitted in June 2014 by the previous Government. But here, you in this bill do not provide and include either time-limits or timetables for the participation of other sectors in the fulfilment of energy efficiency objectives. Also, enter the concept of energy control, which although not mandatory, as you define it gives the feeling of imposing the findings even if it is optional. It is worth noting that no development initiative is included in this bill, as long-term investment mobilisation strategies are not mentioned anywhere. Article 6 merely defines the Energy Policies and Energy Efficiency Directorate of the General Secretariat for Energy and Mineral First Materials of the Ministry as responsible for preparing a long-term strategy report on investment mobilisation and renovation of the building stock, without linking them to specific proposals. You are creating a problem in the market in the way you are trying to implement and implement the European directive. For example, you are saying in Article 8(6) that when concluding a new lease or purchase agreement by public bodies, the building is required to belong to at least Category C energy, with this obligation being applied gradually to renew existing lease contracts, so that in 2020 all buildings housing public services and entities are at least energy category C’. But tell me what: in a country with a recession that bank lending is impossible to meet in a Greek private sector, how will this private person invest in improving buildings, when this action is not linked to the NSRF and the new programming period, when it is not linked to the cohesion funds and the money that they are there and could help to motivate individuals to move forward with these improvements? You make no mention of "Security", a development tool used by the previous government, and you nine months now do nothing. You've left it cold. We delivered you on Christmas Eve, last year's eve, eighteen programs and cash and regional, approved by the European Commission - Greece was in the first three countries, in which all the programmes were approved - a NRP that we received in 2012 with 35% absorption and delivered to you with 85% absorption and Greece in the first three countries of Europe in absorption. Last year we had absorbed about 3.5 billion and this year you, now that the country still needs it, have absorbed only 1.7 billion, about 2 billion, or 1.5 billion less than last year, and are in danger of losing money at the end of the day. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve a goal, one must be organised, must be together, and must also be seriously prepared, with a strategic plan that requires preparation and knowledge. Or he'll come to the House, like the government does, [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President, I shall end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u18	All right, move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u19	Otherwise, the government and the honourable Members will come here, in the Chamber of Parliament, and will philosoph the failure, as they have already done, and they will apologise for good faith as well. Change quickly and stop the way you behave and rule, because I'm very afraid that the entire next period of your administration instead of giving the solutions needed to restore hope and smile to Greek citizens, it will be a road exclusively directed with apologies! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u20	And we, Mr. Screka. We start with the special speakers, with my colleague Mrs Eleni Zarulia from the Golden Dawn. The list has now been closed, and I would like to inform you that some sixty-five colleagues have been included. It is a good request to keep time to speak as many colleagues as possible. Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u21	They should leave first, because there is a turbulence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u22	I would ask those colleagues who come out of the Chamber to come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u23	And whoever doesn't want to hear, don't make wells. They can go out and say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u24	All right, let's get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u25	I do not understand the complaints made by the previous speaker about the urgent and urgent drafts of the SYRIZA. They have set a good example, and SYRIZA follows. It's just a reminder these grievances are causing. We therefore have another urgent or urgent bill, the draft law incorporating the Energy Efficiency Directive and other provisions, to be put in place. It is also impressive that we had a convening of the Committee on Production and Trade this morning for the examination of this draft law and a few hours later we are invited to plenary to address the same issue. I would like to address SYRIZA and ask, weren't you the ones who, as a opposition, accused your predecessors of suffocating timelines, pressing times, intercurrent meetings? Finally, I feel that you have overrun the New Democracy's coexistence with PASOK with regard to the fast track procedures of the Memorandum Requirements. It has become clear that you too want to vote on these prerequisites at the request of lenders, but why so much prestige, really? The bill includes the new prerequisites for the primary sector, after the abolition of tax exemptions for farmers' oil. The pensions of those who have not been able to apply for retirement by 31 August are compressed. In addition, there's a stray scandal in this law you want to pass. You offer a gift to the shareholders of the Grand Music, which I shall refer to next. On energy efficiency, it is clear that the European Commission, with the directive on the integration of the energy upgrading of buildings and energy savings, is also trying to create in Greece a market of several billion euros over the coming years. The winners of this market will be multinational companies, mainly German interests. There is a barrier to the practical development of our national economy. Furthermore, there is a question of national sovereignty since these provisions substantiate our country's energy policy to the requirements of lenders. You have, however, omitted a number of issues. For example, energy savings per year are excluded from transport. However, they represent a significant proportion of total energy consumption. It would be useful to learn why they were excluded. The inclusion of energy efficiency measures in households affected by energy poverty and social housing could be seen as something positive, but there is still insufficient information on how to implement and what they will include. The Energy Efficiency Special Fund is being established, which is, in some ways, a follow-up to the Green Fund. None of us, however, understood why another public body has been set up since the Green Fund. Why did a new one have to be created? There are structures, content, the Board. Haven't you learned anything from the mistakes of the past? The property of the Green Fund has been looted twice by previous governments and finally ended up being the black hole in the budget. The money to be given to this new body in the long term or - why not? - in the medium term are used to repay Greece's debt? The rapporteur for the draft law, Mr Sifakis, referring to the Special Energy Efficiency Fund, said he would have a positive contribution to reducing the unemployment gypsy. One single entity won't make a difference. All you can do is go ahead with the bad practices of previous governments. The objectives set by the National Waste Management Plan could be rather optimistic. Mr Tatoulis, Regional Director of the Peloponnese, as a representative of the Greek Committee of the Regions, referring to the regulation on regional waste management plans, said that this arrangement is a raw intervention against the regions, attempting to control and control the process of reviewing the regional waste management plans. A similar communication was issued by the Attica Region, stating that this arrangement undermines the role of self-government in relation to central power on a crucial issue. And all of this while the Commission is passing us through a sacred examination of everything that is relevant to waste and urban waste water management. Let us not forget that we have already referred to the Court of Justice twice. Golden Dawn proposes a model for waste management modern and environmentally friendly, which has as a priority the decentralisation of activities, the small scale, the encouragement of social participation, the exploitation of domestic production potential and the maintenance of public character in waste management. The Golden Dawn on waste management proposes that there should be no business exploitation or privatisation in waste management. It also proposes the creation of a public solid waste management body with social control. In the light of experience and knowledge of the whole time-consuming waste management problem, it is absolutely essential to implement priority actions and management work in accordance with the reversed pyramid of priorities of the European Union. So while small and medium-sized enterprises are falling apart, families are starving and Greeks cannot raise their shoulders the burden of the economic and general crisis, you make a very nice and generous gift at the Concert Hall of Music. What's that? The exemption from proof of tax and insurance information on its debts to the State. Really, can any small- and medium-sized enterprise do that? I don't think so! What does that mean? In practice it means deleting his debts. You reaffirm once again the privileges and facilities offered by the Greek state to big businessmen and highly indebted barons. Besides, we all know where the Congregation belongs. Along with the “DOL” and “PGASOS” groups, they are the favourite children of the system. I mean, nothing's gonna change in this place! Let me remind you of some of the titles of the electronic and printed press, which have from time to time been released on the topic at issue: "The sea-loving of the Concert Music with the guarantors of the taxpayers", "The scandal has no end", "An extension of life in the Athens Concert Hall with a SYRIZA stamp". First time on the left! Let's take a look at the sizes. The Music House has raised three loans totalling EUR 245 million: one with the National Bank, EUR 95 million and two with the European Investment Bank, amounting to EUR 78,857,936 and EUR 55,419,314 respectively. His debts are up to 230 million euros. So while the government is cutting off pensions, it is subsidising the company every year with large sums! How is it possible for you to be left-wing people, who are sensitive socially, to do this? I don't understand it. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 3943/2011, i.e. “Papakstantinou”, saved for the first time the Congregation of Music. In what way? The Greek State, which was the guarantor of the loans, was asked to repay its debt and take over all its debts due to economic weakness and problems. In 2014, the Government of New Democracy tabled an amendment similar to the current one. It was then voted against by the SYRIZA Members, saying that it demonstrates that governments' policies for the Congregation of Music and Transparency are and have led the situation to a limit point. Really, what exactly changed from then on until May 2015 when you brought the corresponding amendment? In other words, this provision comes to a vote, regardless of the government. This proves the passivity of the system and the corruption that prevails. Golden Dawn voted against that amendment and it will do so now. We denounce the bad texts. The state must finally take on its debt towards the citizens rather than favour capital and take on board capitalists. There are moral issues now. In a period of cruel austerity for an entire people, you take the taxpayers to cover the public deficit and be the 'good' children to the creditors. Most of you do not see this scandal and the means of interlocutory are kept briefly on the issue. The question is why there has never been financial and management control over where the EUR 230 million went. The following answer has been given: No audit has been carried out by the Directorate-General for Budgetary Control on the grounds that it is not included in the list of bodies controlled by it for the selection of the sample since it did not comply with the requirements set out by the Audit Committee. Does this answer cover you? We don't. Before you proceed to the favourable arrangements for this company, should you have unleashed this blurred landscape? The election position of SYRIZA was the statization of the Grand Music, and even you said "with the Government of the Left, the first step must be the operation of the Grand Music as a public institution of culture". With this amendment you are perpetuating a sick situation. You only offer one more half to satisfy the oligarchs and certainly not the hard-tested people, the pensioner, the unemployed. So you, too, are faithfully following the steps of your predecessors. You take advantage of the resources and wealth of our country and give your blessings to problematic situations as another corrupt leadership of our country. There is only one more charge left to see in the Greek citizen's pocket. After the extraordinary special fee of electrode structured surfaces, the engraving at PPC, HISA, to see an energy upgrade fee and a fee to save the Constant musician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u26	Me too, Mrs Zaroulia, and for saving time. Mr. Ioannis Maniotis has the floor. Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a political warning to the government, forget what it has learned so far, forget the unacceptable way in which it has been legislating for all these months in the administration of the country. And I'm addressing the Minister. Minister, can you tell me one or more of the bills that your government has brought you in these nine months that you have been ruling and which has been discussed and voted on under the normal procedure rather than the urgency procedure? And if you can't find out, can you tell me how all the Opposition should call you, remembering that you as opposition were calling the government at the time, "German giraffes, traitors, in Gouda, in four, there are no emergencies?" All this, ladies and gentlemen, is there or is not in the country's current governance? Does the government have, or does it not have, responsibilities? If the government now legislates in exceptional circumstances last year or last year how did the governments legislate? In greenhouse conditions? Everything was going well and good? I am saying this in order to give you political warnings that you do not think about bringing bills or amendments which have not been tabled by the committees. You will find the whole Opposition in front of you! Secondly, we had other tricks yesterday, Mr Philly. No one has asked Mr Friends what his scientific opinion on the issue of Pontius Genocide is. It had been recorded at some point in "SUNDAY", and it was over. Mr. Philis, a "doctor" legal officer on genocide, considered that he had a duty to inform the Greek people of his "scientific" opinion on the Genocide of the Pontius! This is a dangerous, unacceptable, incomprehensible statement, which the Prime Minister himself must correct, and not a State Secretary, for example the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, who has the government to "empty" the Minister for Education. The country's foreign policy is not entitled to be exercised by the Minister of Education. So here, the Prime Minister himself is required to assume his responsibilities. You know, we started with VAT in the spaghetti with Mr. Friends, and we continue with the bill we now have with the extremes and party choices on the educational boards. Mr Philis has found time to deal with the way in which we can fully complicate the training councils. But you know what he didn't get time for? He did not find time to make a statement condemning yesterday's events at the Kapodistrian University, in which a group of students poorly banned the foreign assessors of the Kapodistrian University. The honourable Minister has not found the time to say a word about the fact that today it is officially announced that the three thousand grants from the State Grants Foundation are at risk, with which three thousand young children in the country are being financially strengthened to continue their studies. For the Pontian Genocide but "scientific" found the time to place itself. How do we assess this politically? A next issue is what I hear many times, with annoying repeatability, that "you know, you voted on the Tsipras Memorandum on 14 August". Let's get things cleared up between us. We did not vote for the 'Tsipras Memorandum', the memorandum you alone negotiated and signed. We supported the country with a sense of national responsibility and stated from that moment on - and the President of the PASOK, Phofi Gennamas, declared it at the Conference with the President of the Republic - that we will not support measures that increase unemployment, in fact measures. We will only support the reform measures. Consequently, the well-known excuse 'but you voted for it in the summer' is unstable. We did not vote for VAT 23% on private education. We did not vote to increase the tax on farmers from 13% to 26%. We did not vote for all these incomprehensible articles that you are throwing in public as supposedly articles, fishing for reactions to anti-population. In the morning, ladies and gentlemen, we had a first small but significant victory in the coup d'état of the constitutional arch. In the face of the outcry of all of us about the famous article 52 that disappears the small decentralized Greek breweries and rejoices - they rub their hands - the cartel of the two major colossal, the oligopolis of beer, the government retreated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u28	He's voted against. He didn't retreat.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u29	This is the first time that the government voted against and withdrew it immediately after the vote. Let this be an example to counterpopulation and an example to avoid the government. I would also like to inform the House that we have tabled some amendments which we consider to be extremely important. With one of these amendments, we call for VAT to be withdrawn to 23% in private education: education centres, language schools, private IEK, private schools. Let's find other equivalents. Let them find them wherever they want, but not in education. With the second article in the amendment we call for this inhumanity - I do not know how else I can describe it - which is the smart idea of raising VAT in the nursing homes from 13% to 23%, that VAT should cease to apply and that VAT should be restored to these units of social solidarity, as it used to be, at 13%. With a second amendment, we call for a very important reform to be carried out in the agricultural sector. From 1-1-2016, there will be an electronic farm oil card which will relate to farmers, farmers, farmers and fishermen, a card based on an electronic register based on the IACC's declarations and which will be kept and controlled by the OPEKE. Absolute transparency, no game from anyone to anyone and absolute dignity in how the Greek farmers are supported. In addition, with an amendment we have tabled, we call for the incompatibility to be restored to EUR 1,500, this inexpectable, unrealistic social act by which the irresponsible act of EUR 1,500 went to EUR 1 000 for wages and pensions and EUR 1,250 for small deposits. We call for it to be returned to the old, to the EUR 1,500 and, of course, to be inconsistent and not to be able to touch the advances, the allowances of the disabled or the EUR 300 or 500 that the inhabitants of the areas affected by floods or other natural disasters receive. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said from the outset that we are voting against the bill at first, because this is a stitching-off, a mistaken washing machine and, above all, we are voting against it because we are consistent with our basic political position, that what we are voting on is not voting against! Here, from the first article, the government asks us to vote on something that was voted on under the responsibility of the government less than a month ago. We have also tabled a relevant amendment to the pension rights of Greek citizens who have been founded until 18 August 2015 and we are calling for them not to be affected by the different pension changes. Last afternoon in our committee there was an interesting dialogue between me as a special speaker of the PASOK-DIMAR-Secretary of State for Social Security, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. So you will see why we cannot vote for your bill and put out with sponge these incredible 'I said's words. I address the State Secretary: 'MANIATIS: It is the amendment we have tabled, Minister. Do you accept it? It is the amendment that we have read. PETROPOULOS (Secretary of State): We do not need to discuss your amendment, because it is unnecessary to introduce it into the debate. So you're overcovering her? PETROPOULOS: Yes, just like that. MANIAS: Thank you very much for approving it, Minister.' It has only been two hours and at the end of our committee, the chairperson of the committee read us a note from the responsible Secretary of State, Mr Petroupoulou, that what he said earlier does not apply and the provision remains the same without the adoption of the amendment we had discussed. These are some of the reasons why we cannot vote for. I now come to some of the articles in the bill. Article 31. Management of the country's waste, a heavy matter. It is a matter for local societies and regional self-government, as throughout Europe, to have and must have absolute authority. The only thing that the state has to do is give them money so that it is responsible for managing these issues. Following the government's attack on the independent authorities - and we have already seen more than five such attacks on independent authorities - the attack on self-government comes, and the decision of the Secretary-General of the joint ministries approving the decisions of the regional councils. Despite the correction made by the Ministry, we are not satisfied and voted against this article. In Rule 35 there is one provision, which I am sure is not going to vote on any of the coup d'état Members. I am absolutely sure of that. This is a provision that conceals opacity and under no circumstances can it be considered progressive and left-wing. I can explain: By legislation of summer - badly, but it has decided - the government majority to create another energy company in the country, despite the fact that we have both the DEPA and the DESCA and the Hydrocarbon Research Agency and despite the disagreement of the General Accounting Office of the State, which said that we do not need to do more administrative costs, to appoint other management boards, because what you are asking for can do can do so, however, be done by one of the existing companies and the government has decided and created another company. How? Pursuant to the first paragraph of the article in question, that company is established by a Presidential Decree, i.e. under the legality of the Council of State. And what is the government coming up to do now in Article 35? We are asked by the Presidential Decree to change it and make it a joint ministerial decision. To decide, in other words, how the policy will be exercised in the country's infrastructures in a company that will be subsidized by 1 million euros from the Greek State's money and which the government does not want there to be control, according to the Presidential Decree, by the Council of State, but to do what the ministers want. Hey, no! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in less than two minutes. Article 37: Centre for the Training and Rehabilitation of Blinds. Why are you giving special rewards to his president, in addition to all the provisions in force? Who have you promised an extra wage? Article 42: SERVICES. I don't think you need any comment. The ADED and the representatives of OLEME and the ILO during the debate showed how unacceptable they are. Article 51: Agricultural oil. The excise duty on agricultural oil from 66 euros per kilometre becomes 200 euros per kilometre and VAT on agricultural supplies of 13% that was now 23%. Colleagues in the region, how will you see your country's farmers, much more when rumors begin? The income tax from 13% will now take place in 2015, with subsequent legislation, 20% and in a short time, in 2016, 26%. Taxation of all subsidies, triple the insurance contributions to OGA, i.e. a couple of farmers who currently pay EUR 125 a month, will pay EUR 385 per month to OGA. I wonder how your country's farmers will stand. I shall end, Mr President, by incorporating the Energy Sustainability Directive. I have said many times - and I believe it deeply - that energy savings are an incredible, huge, unexploited national wealth. It's the country's biggest energy look. Almost all the articles relating to the transposition of the directive will be supported. But, Minister, there is one question. This is the incorporation of a directive. Can you answer us a top question? In the NSRF, the previous “bad government” had allocated EUR 500 million for the “Home Settlement” programme and fifty thousand poor houses strengthened their thermal insulation. Can you tell us in the new NSRF, what you are managing and negotiating, in relation to the EUR 500 million of the previous ‘bad governments’, how much do you intend to put? Ladies and gentlemen, with these considerations, I repeat our intention to vote against the bill in principle, but in articles relating to the transposition of the directive we will be extremely positive. Thank you very much, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u30	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. This is another anti-grass law that highlights the objectives of state policy, namely to have laws that are implemented in the light of the profitability of business groups. So are the bourgeois governments and you're one of them. In addition, most of the articles are voted on by the parties that together voted on the third memorandum. They may, of course, vote against at first, but they are also trying to find the line of difference that does not exist. Already since the first article, you are generalizing the cruelty and cruelty of new pension measures. You are applying the Loverdus Act to its worst, as pensions and those who work in the public sector are reduced and departing from September 1st. The same is true of other workers. However, it is barbaric and inhumane what is contained in the third paragraph, where the reductions are also common to disabled workers. The need for capital to reduce costs does not stop against such workers either. Fairly, therefore, the Pan-Hellenic Pan-Hellenic Syllable, which took place a few hours ago, denounces that disability pensions are effectively abolished, since the minimum will be only 87 euros. And these people are going to sixty-seven years - we are talking about disabled workers, suffering from Mediterranean anemia, paraplegic, blind - when for some categories life expectancy does not reach even fifty-five years. So, in the Minutes, we put the record of their problems and their demands and especially how brutally the people of the country have been affected by your policy. When I say 'from your policy', I mean the policy of today and the previous ones. Basically, you are generalizing the reactionary doctrine "you work more and you get less paid". [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the bill is concerned, most of the articles concern energy issues, notably the incorporation of European Directives on measures to promote energy savings and improve energy efficiency. Incorporating Community Directive 2012/27 on energy efficiency. This enforcement will respond to the concerns of the Euro-Union monopolies about the adequacy of the European Union's energy resources and energy costs in the Member States. These struggles are exacerbated by the exacerbation of intra-imperialist opposition, with a typical example of the developments in Ukraine. The European Union imports 53% of the energy it consumes. Its external energy expenditure exceeds EUR 1 billion per day. In such an environment, the European Union's urban ranks, on the one hand, are taking an active part in the bazaars and in dangerous conflicts to secure a strategic advantage in energy transport sources and roads, where Syria is, of course, and we experience it with the drama of refugees. On the other hand, they are turning to other recipes, such as ensuring energy efficiency or renewable energy sources, which now reach 14% and I am talking about the European Union's energy mix. The aim is to reach 20% in 2020 and 27% in 2020-2030. So what's the public? It undertakes each year to increase energy efficiency by 3% of its total floor area of heated or psychotic buildings. It is also planned to provide incentives to mobilise investments to upgrade the country's energy stock for the orientation of future investment decisions by private sector and financial institutions, thus opening profit fields for industry monopolies. Furthermore, increased funding from the European Union to improve energy efficiency or a new package for renewable energies to strengthen monopolistic groups, in essence, has been announced by the Commissioner for Climate and Energy Action, saying attributes: 'Energy union will be partly built by private funding lines with a guarantee of public money. Such a mixed mechanism is considered central to the mobilisation of ECU 315 billion. We are talking about investment, about the Yunker investment programme, with the money of the people who will certainly enjoy the great groups. The central objective, therefore, is to promote and develop green technologies, which will be made available to take advantage of the tools to stimulate capitalist development. At the same time, such technologies are being exploited by monopolistic groups with the umbrella of protectionism, against international competitors, ensuring their share in the European market. This is how the new technologies in general are in capitalism. In particular, green technologies and efficiency are promoted for the profitability of monopolistic groups and not for the broadest satisfaction of people's needs and social well-being. As long as energy is a commodity, the combined satisfaction of people's needs is impossible and energy poverty will increase. In fact, people who don't have it will die. Such examples have been given when poor students or even popular families with children were trying to warm themselves up by methods of past centuries and they found death by fumes. Those who lived in socialist lands, however, always remember and say about hot water, warm houses and communal areas that were secured and free of charge because energy was good and not expensive commodity. In capitalist production, technological developments are exploited to increase exploitation, broaden the relative and absolute impoverishment of popular strata. The example of energy is characteristic. The fuel mix, the technologies selected each time are in accordance with the profitability criterion. New technologies, such as RES, have not led to cheap and sufficient energy while ensuring minimum environmental damage, have led to environmental damage, rural industry and cost evacuation for the people's family. In this, the famous protection of the environment and energy efficiency are not an exception. VOLKSWAGEN's 'emissions' scandal on new technology cars was not hidden. The European Union also knew about it. However, other scandals that previously existed in the United States prove that capital has a godly gain and the civil state ensures its profitability. The question is who will pay and who will benefit from green energy technologies. In fact a number of measures are being introduced which increase the cost of energy for the people and at the same time redeploy the pie in favour of large groups that will gain the lion's share of the use of these technologies from their installation, from the exclusion of smaller businesses and self-employed people who are not energy-efficient. The aim, therefore, of renovating the building stock, starting with the public buildings, is that large groups will gain after having the relevant know-how and the available funds - they are, together, going to make huge investments, of course, using the appropriate materials of corresponding technology produced by small businesses. This accelerates the concentration and concentration in the sector. At the same time, the provisions of the bill open the way for the mandatory energy upgrade of all buildings housing public services. As far as the renovation costs are concerned, it will certainly be burdening the people through the state budget. The people will pay for it. And I say it in this sense: it is certainly good to save energy. Alas! But who commands the needs of the country today and of each household? In capitalism both the growth criterion and the profits of groups as well as the irresistible character and intra-capitalist competition rule out the philosophical exploitation and development of production. For us, a prerequisite for the philosophical use of energy resources and new technologies is the creation of a single state energy operator, which can ensure cheap and sufficient energy, use of domestic energy resources, energy efficiency, environmental protection, labour relations on a permanent and stable basis in this area. Of course, this development path requires labour power and socialisation of all the concentrated means of production. Only in such circumstances can the choice of technology, fuel mix and mode of transport be made centrally and designed, taking into account all the effects resulting from the fulfilment of popular needs. With regard to the other articles on a different subject, I will concentrate on the main points and the rest will cover them in the debate on the subject. In Article 28, the Government is progressing rapidly to further privatise the port of Piraeus. This was also a commitment to the third memorandum. It promises that it will give growth and employment to absorb the popular reactions and to blur what is evident, that it is not different from the previous governments. In this context, it presents through this article that the area of fertilisers is given to the Municipality of Keratini. However, six hundred acres do not belong to the use of the Municipality of Keratini, since most of them belong to the National Bank and the ‘LAFARGE’. The amendment is therefore redefined, i.e. it returns to the situation before the Maniotis Act. However, it does not ensure what people are asking for, namely expropriation from private individuals and renewal with state funding, to serve people's interests and to benefit society. Only a hundred acres belong to the Municipality of Keratini. The KEI therefore submits an amendment to the final resolution of the property regime of the coastal front of the six hundred acres of the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas and to take advantage of the popular strata. However, let us say and make it clear that it does not negate the crime of privatisation that twenty-four thousand acres of coastline and millions of acres of beaches are being condemned to the teeth of business groups and millions of people are being convicted of the right to access the sea unless they have to pay. With Article 51, you are abolished and the crumbs you have given. You are imposing the excise duty on agricultural oil, and you are preparing a savage tax. You have started and prepared the ground with slander and insults, saying that farmers are tax-growers through leaks of service factors. He'll turn you back, boomerang. I tell you, because farmers are angry, they know that well, and you know that too. Here you do not recognize them in their expenses, nor do you recognize them in their fields and herds. At the same time, you are preparing a triple of the contribution to the OGA and the removal of the remaining small and medium-sized farmers through the savage tax storm. You are stirring with slanders and lies that they are not paying taxes, when only on farm supplies, that is what they have to buy to cultivate, you took VAT to 23%. A farmer, even with zero income, has the evidence. So if he has a house and a car, he pays over 2,000 euros. Apparently, you're afraid of the mobilizations that start and escalate. They find resonance and want to prevent the alliances created by the working class and the popular strata against the brutality of your measures and policies. You are exterminating poor and small- and medium-sized incomes to make the great. You are concerned - and you are doing well to worry - because the totalitarian strike on November 12 against your barbaric class policy takes the characteristics of the mass universal response to cohabitation, capital, troika and shows that regardless of what they voted on in the last elections, they are in no way prepared to consent to the barbaricity and brutality of the measures and your policy that this bill also expresses. Of course, we are voting against the bill in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Mr. Lykoudis from Potami has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing today in plenary today after the committees to discuss the multi-annual plan, which in the meantime interferes with the urgent procedure of the draft law on the recapitalisation of banks. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what good faith one has, no matter how good mood or understanding one wanted to show, can he only rightly ask himself: 'Is this ultimately a legislative process? Will the government help us to operate normally at some point as a parliament and to carry out our duties as MPs and as opposition parties to the voters and the Greek people?' Because if my memory is not cheating on me, the current government as opposition did not lose opportunity to support the then government on how to legislate, even using severe expressions and appearing as a defender of democracy. Today, however, being nine months in the government helm with exactly the same tactic and the same quarrels, he comes to follow the stalked one. He's banned an exception to a rule. It seeks mainly legislative acts, urgent and urgent bills. Ladies and gentlemen, this Chamber is in danger of changing to a permanent post-medical building. We're under stormed legislation. 'Labourless procedure' is called in other parliaments, because there is indeed little time available for serious study, processing and responsible placement, and you all know that. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that such procedures do not honor the legislature, but they do not honor the government. It is not possible to continue, and we want to reject them very clearly. It is clear that the reasons why the government, like the previous ones, is so rapid in ending with the legislative process, as if it were necessarily unnecessary. I understand the inconsistency of the situation, the exceptional circumstances which the government itself claims. They're very familiar with us. Repeat with normality of natural phenomenon. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not, as you know, one of them who is an equal-minded opposition to unwritten impressions. It is not difficult to see that the government, of course, operates under suffocating time limits and other pressures on which it is also responsible. But that's not all. It's not just suffocating procedures. We are, in fact, called upon to discuss bills with allergy provisions that would be jealous of even the best Macedonian salad. I think that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work is a good one. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that all these procedures are being repaid before the obvious need to disburse the two billion euro dose. What to do, that's how it is. It is not only the government that has accelerated the procedures, nor the need for funding. It's all about us. Let me repeat, it is all about us. However, we understand you, ladies and gentlemen, because it is painful - and we have to recognise it here - to implement policies on class, as you say, a political clientele which is now being called upon to pay for the broken negotiations. Because the perfect storm of the tax raid on insurance and other unsuccessful measures is already with us and brings to the fore the fraud of this anti-monstrous chimear and self-deception. It now comes to light on the most official Community lips, you have heard the statements made by Mr Yunker, the tragic background of a nonexistent, in our opinion, in fact negotiations with tragic consequences for the Greek society. We need to remember the red lines for the debt, pensions and all other achievements, which I think were no more than an incredible idea of their inspiring. In vain, then, the government has tried and strived to cover up the fact that we are in fact again in the same procedures, the same and the same as the previous Memorandums. No matter how many hotels the troika has changed, either in the centre of the city or in the vicinity, it has come further and will return for the next three years, and the process will remain the same: Implementation of the prerequisites, evaluation and then, if the assessment is sufficient, disbursement of the loan instalments on which the operation of the state depends fully and the survival of our economy depends. In any case, Mr Moskovis said so, and in any case, all the parties involved say so, and in any case, the loud musical conflict of the quartet. Only the government seems to me, having weakened hearing, takes it as soft room music. It's been months since the troika was uploaded. Alas, though. Everything is changing to keep the same, as a French word says, but unfortunately it is not right in our case, because I think things are unfortunately getting worse. Ladies and gentlemen, we are - not only the government, I say again, but all of us - in a real deadlock. Other countries, such as Cyprus recently, reap and close the parentheses with their necessary self-criticism, accepting that their own mistakes led to the memorandum and their own responsibility, are the way out of the crisis. In other words, they took responsibility and load and were able to do so. We have a painful course of another three years in the new Memorandum. We'll close almost a decade in the vicious circle. It is questionable whether the current government can do so as far as it continues to do so, in my opinion, by means of communication exercises to cover another major political fraud or fraud, I would say, because it can also be the same illusion, that it is forced to apply those agreed with the partners to save the country from the disaster that is still before the doors, but, ladies and gentlemen, it has also contributed to it by calling today for the failure policy to be voted on by all of us in this Parliament, which unfortunately reminds me of this - to be a little joking - which is the case that the killer of its parents was asking for custody by the court as an orphan. Ladies and gentlemen, I considered this introduction necessary, despite the fact that I rarely allow myself, when we discuss a particular issue within parliamentary procedures, to address general political remarks, which is common in this House. I sincerely do not allow this to happen to myself, but I felt it necessary to introduce this introduction before entering into the subject of today's debate, because I think it is timely, because the government does not decide to tell the citizens the truth and to assume its responsibilities, namely to harmonise not only with the social acquis, incorporating into national legislation Community directives, what we are called upon to weight and evaluate today, but above all to align itself with the reality and with its responsibilities towards a people, to the whole of the Greek people, who I think has been misled and misled. It is time for the government finally to apologise with humility and consciousness of the critical context. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a few crises about the maximum part of the bill concerning the European directive, namely the need to modernise our energy infrastructure, so that we can move on to the individual debate on the articles tomorrow. We will accept it and agree to that part of the bill with few exceptions. I just want to stress that in conditions of economic crisis, I fear that it is easy to ignore green targets for actions. If that happens, it will undoubtedly be a major strategic mistake which will cause not only the natural environment, but also the economy and social cohesion. What country, ladies and gentlemen, is it prepared to pay more than EUR 2 billion a year simply for the purchase of emission allowances, without any advantage for itself? However, this is going to happen if Greece ignores its green commitments and loses the opportunity to launch a new path of sustainable green development with new, innovative services, industries and products. It should be noted that an insufficient design, without proper quantification of the benefits and costs, without proper pricing of actions and without institutional armour, will only result in partial implementation of the measures and therefore clearly smaller or even negative effects on the environment and the economy. Usually, taking green measures is a beneficial solution for everyone, a win-win solution, as we say, but under conditions of economic downturn, emphasis is placed on implementing measures that quickly depreciate and create multiple jobs. A prerequisite, however, for this to happen is the establishment of priorities for the country's development policy and, of course, the rejection of doubtful quality investments that lead to mathematically further consolidation of the economy and an effective cancellation of the commitments for green growth. Ladies and gentlemen, while respecting my time available, I then have to make myself necessarily selective, and that is why I am going to focus on just a few points in the multi-brand plan on which we have, in my opinion, tabled interesting specific amendments and supplementing with a specific article, first by setting up regional primary and secondary school councils in paragraphs 2b and 3b of Article 42. We propose that we proceed with a draw in a public procedure. We think it is obvious that our proposal should be appropriate after the unambiguous case of the appointment of regional education directors during the previous period on the basis of completely party criteria. We are making this intervention so as not to lose any trace of credibility. With the proposed amendment, PYSPE and PYSE staff are more objectively managed. At the same time, certain safeguards of administrative experience are ensured, since the selection by draw is made by the presumptionually more experienced managers of education in each region. We shall also talk about this amendment at tomorrow's sitting. I shall now proceed to another amendment. We, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment to add to the reintroduction of the VAT exemption for private education. We are presenting it, in our view, fully justified, because it has three arms and three options that cumulatively ensure the financial equivalent of EUR 240 million, since the government has been looking everywhere for the equivalents for weeks without a specific proposal. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to another point in Article 37 on the Blind Education and Rehabilitation Centre. It is a great question about this article, ladies and gentlemen. It's a big question. It is clear that we are voting against it from the outset, because it reminds us of the old and sinful times of rhetorical regulations, electoral, rewarding and prerequisites, which seem to be not so old since we meet them again today. The provision relates to the composition of the board of directors of the Centre for the Education and Rehabilitation of Blinds. The centre's supervision is transferred by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Security, and together it goes to the new Minister and with a institutional gift. I can explain: All the positions of the seven-member board of directors are defined in the same way as in the old law by differentiating: While the appointment was provided for, in the absolute judgment of the Minister, including one ophthalmist and one known person, the ophthalmist disappears and two known persons become. I don't know, maybe there's some sort of setup right. For example, what we want on the board of a Blind Rehabilitation Center does not need us to replace it with a well-known person chosen by the Minister. We believe, however, that this is how credibility is being made even more and that there is a lack of all sorts of seriousness and responsibility in the way we legislate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u34	Me too, Mr. Lykoudi. I would like to inform you that by letter sent by the Secretary of Parliament to the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative and instead of Mr Pappas he will be Mr Germenis. Mr. George Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, would like to stand sadly against Mr. Philly's unscrupulous statements. I am a mouse origin, and I would like to remind Mr Friend that this Parliament has recognised genocide. We therefore have to respect all decisions. Also, the Pontian Genocide has been recognised by many parliaments. In fact, the Prime Minister of Australia cried when they described to the Australian MPs - in their Parliament - what has happened. I would like to tell you that the prosperous Greek population of Pontou reached the seven hundred thousand. The Turks with persecution and massacres killed three hundred and fifty - three thousand souls, more than half of the population. So that's not genocide. In any case, there are many historical sources that one should use in order to be informed. There are the books of Polychrone Enecidis and the diary of Metropolitan Bank, in which Metropolitan Chrysanthos - like Polychrone Enepcides - describes in creepy detail what was then happening in Pontus. In any case, I 'climate the knee with respect to the memory of all these souls.' I would like to say that the bill is in the right direction. Energy saving is essential because of the environment, but also because of the economic crisis. Do not forget, of course, our obligation to comply with the European Union's energy policy. The bill incorporates the Community Energy Efficiency Directive in Greek 2012/27EU. An indicative national energy efficiency target for final energy consumption in 2020, taking into account the forecast for energy consumption in the European Union in 2020, the measures included in the law, the measures taken to incorporate previous Directives and the measures to promote energy efficiency in other Member States shall be established. In order to achieve the national indicative objective, an annual progress report will be drawn up. At the same time, the bill provides for every three years drafting by the RIS National Energy Performance Action Plans in cooperation with the relevant ministries and bodies. Furthermore, a long-term strategy report on investment mobilisation is also planned to renovate the building stock consisting of residential and commercial buildings, public and private. The need is for the use and use of more efficient materials in buildings to be actively used and used. In fact, it is worth pointing out that many of them are made in Greece and are indeed of high quality. Improving energy efficiency is also about the quality of life of citizens. The renovation of private buildings with incentives is in the right direction, as is the forced renovation of public and municipal buildings, energy audits in enterprises and the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises leaving them out of control. There is a need for some attention to be paid to the checks that will be carried out in order not to impose any further financial burden on companies. What I would also like to point out - and I pointed it out in committee too - is the burden on consumers, whether on electricity meter or on water supply, etc. We should be clear if the cost of cash is borne by the agency or by consumers. In addition, district heating must be disseminated, because where it was implemented it has had positive consequences. The energy auditors and the upgrading of their role, as well as their training, are something that we are in agreement with. We must also be particularly sensitive to Article 25, which refers to the energy poverty of vulnerable social groups, which we must address with particular sensitivity. Also, the reference to the management of the country's geothermal potential is quite right, because we have many sources that can be exploited and which will give us energy and environmentally friendly, but also at low cost. In Article 31, which deals with waste management, philosophy and wording are correct. Be careful, however, not to leave space to some international volunteers who are looking for space to transport waste from European Union industrial countries, but also from countries outside the European Union, in order to get rid of them and process them in willing countries. Attention, then! We only manage our own, and indeed very carefully. [[F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS]] In conclusion, I would like to ask you to pay special attention to the upgrading of buildings, because apart from helping to protect the environment, they will help the Greek industry and the Greek craft industries that have to do with building materials and will create new jobs to do with the craftsmen, the builders who will deal with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Megamomustakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be brief and concise. The process in which the bill comes again is unfortunately following the urgency of urgency, which - I would remind you - when you were a opposition you have constantly condemned. That's the new one you're bringing? It's a tactic that's doomed to constantly lead to mistakes. This bill is characterised by a lack of coherence and relevance. In the first part of the bill you ask us to vote in favour of pension arrangements, which you yourself voted on and now you are asking to vote on. This clearly makes the sloppiness with which you draw up the bills. You want to vote on bills that are actually made in the leg, confirming our above concerns about the procedures you are following. Understand that, it states irresponsibility! As far as energy is concerned, these are in a very good way and we are positive in voting in favour of what follows the European directives. It was, after all, something that had to be done a long time ago. We finally want a class to be able to save energy for both economics, but above all for environmental reasons. However, we cannot stand by and not judge your intention to create another body, a special fund. Why? What exactly will he do? We are sure that the existing green fund can cope with the needs of both know-how and financial resources. I am very afraid that you would like to follow old-fashioned practices which you have also condemned and said you would bring the new one. You want to follow the custodial practices, open new jobs and help your own people. I hope it's not what you want to serve. I hope you're over with the old one, because people haven't chosen you for that reason. A similar positive sign is also provided for in articles relating to education. But something which does not agree with us is the provisions of Articles 42 and 43 which give strong authoritarianism and concentration to the Ministry of Education. With Article 53 - where you are actually deviating from the former ILO - we are losing a tool to secure money. Our proposal is that these officials should remain there for some time, so that they can claim money that they would otherwise not receive. I would also like to refer to Rule 54, which relates to the Music Concert. Of course we have to save it. Culture is our priority. Culture and Greece are intertwined, it is one. We know that workers have been unpaid for some time now. They shouldn't stay that way. We need to take care of them. Under no circumstances do we want it to be closed. However, there must be strict control and immediate action to close one of the fronts. I would also like to talk about the infamous Article 52, which deals with brewery - fortunately it was voted against and withdrawn, of course - which is another example of the peculiarity with which you draft the bills, and not even the members of your government voted for it. That is why it has already been withdrawn. With this article you would put a tombstone in a sector of the Greek economy, which in recent years we have seen growth. I don't want to believe that you did all of this to serve foreign business interests. In order to strengthen the Greek economy and support the development of domestic production, we certainly should not bring such measures. At the end of Article 51, which concerns, as we all know, agricultural oil. It increases agricultural oil from EUR 66 to EUR 200 per kilogram for 2016, while in 2017 you want to abolish it. And you do that when we already owe the farmers the oil last year. These moves are destroying the primary sector. You lead to the impoverishment of fishermen, farmers, farmers, you yourself who have given us lessons of social sensitivity. Is that, according to you, the "ethical advantage" of the Left? We all know that the agricultural sector is one of the pillars - along with shipping and tourism - on which we must rely to raise Greece. What are you doing? You are increasing taxation from 13% to 23% in agricultural supplies, increasing farmers' insurance contributions to three times, delaying compensation, and in many cases you do not even give them, you are preparing to bring tax increases, as Mr Apostle announced the other day and along with this to enter an advance for the first year of 75% and then 100%. How are you gonna do that? Do you not know that you cannot predict either weather or circumstances that determine agricultural production? Are we going to be prophets now? Will you ask for an advance from the farmers? They are the only ones who should under no circumstances be touched by the advance. How do you ask farmers to pay advances, since they have this money as an investment tool? What do you think is the profit margin? Farmers are not shipowners! You have lost all contact with reality, with our society. We live in another world here, than I understand. Farmers will react forcefully against these new measures. Wait for them. That's for sure. You've been told. And what are we gonna do about it? I'm sure you don't believe what you're voting for, too. I'm sure of it. I can see it in your eyes. We must therefore wait for the farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, what we must do is not cut the motives, but strengthen them. They are motives which - not to be foolish - exist throughout Europe. Sweden receives subsidies, and Germany receives subsidies, both France and Romania and all of them. We must not put our farmers with remorse, 'living at the expense of others and receiving subsidies', nor accuse them in our society. They've become the black sheep. Who? The farmers. The farmers, the ones who will get us out of the crisis. This is not a serious attitude. You took out on television that farmers say 2,000 euros. Doctors say how much? How much do doctors say? I've seen doctors who have 2,000 and 3,000 euros income. I do not want to blame any industry, but you do not distinguish farmers from professionals and farmers who simply complete their income. Don't you think that for the farmer to work, he's got a piece of money? Where? Do you take that into account anywhere? You're not receiving it. What we need to do is motivate them, not remove them. A solution is finally to apply the farmers' card. We should give them the incentives according to their production, with the extent to which they grow, to set up a number of safety nets that will control them. We can't do what you want to do. We'll destroy them. I heard Mr. Apostle say what? That we will apply it and if we see that there is no performance, then we will abolish it. So, you think farmers can afford one year? Do you have that impression? I come from a rural family, and I know they can't handle this. With this policy, we will only favour the big landowners, those who have the financial potential and can respond to a year in which they will enter. The rest of you can't. The way they take it, they give it to feed their family, to pay the taxes we've borne them so badly. They just can't handle it. You should know that. Farmers are indignant. Farmers will not pay what they want to pay, not because they do not want to, but because they cannot. What farmers fear is the tax. You never made them keep books, not just you, but the previous ones. I don't blame you now. The farmer is scared. He'll give you what you're asking if you secure them a living. No farmer comes out to take Cayenne, take the house to the sea. If you see them, they don't live with the losa. They're just people. And what do we want to do with them? Break them down. So the pathogenesis in the agricultural sector exist and they still exist, that is for granted. We have allowed these pathogens to develop for so many years. We were helping them. We let there be 'terrestrial fields'. We put the luxurious jeep as a farm. And that is not just what farmers did. Some politicians did so too. I mean, luxurious jeep declared as agricultural. We cannot follow the tactic, 'the head hurts and we will cut it'. What we have to do is get serious. And I mean all of us. Not only the government, but all of us! We must believe in the powers of our people - our people are a proud people, a powerful people - and strengthen the business demon of Greece. What the Greek can do, no one else can do. I don't want to sound nationalist and graphic, but I do. Mr. Ministers, with the bills you bring here, I have the impression that you're asking us to become accomplices in the dissolution of the country. Why? Why are you asking us to tear down what's left of the country's productive tissue? You ask us to sell our country out in a few words. How can we do that? That's not why we're here. We are to give solutions, not to charge them with other problems. Unfortunately, I understand that you are in a difficult position, that you have signed prerequisites not only you but the rest of us in August. However, we should pursue a policy that will get us out of the crisis, not that it will put us deeper. Because that's what we're doing with this article. That's all we can do. Nothing else. Fighting the farmer! We need to change our tactics immediately. What our people say is that, along with dry matter, the greens are burning. I walk down the street and I'm ashamed. Why? Because we are voting for what is being voted in this Chamber. I'm sure if we keep voting on these measures, we won't be able to move in our neighborhoods. The world will get away from us. You see it yourself. Don't you see it? They'll take us with the yogurt. And we didn't do anything. We're young here. I'm dealing with it. People see me and they swear me. Imagine the rest of the people who have been here for years how to deal with them. They treat me like that, a young people who from my eighteenth day of work, I have set up some jobs and came here with my powers, not relying on a party. I didn't develop within a party tube. I imagine how people treat you, unfortunately. We should be proud. We are the three hundred elected by the people. We should walk with our head up. That's what we had to do, not bend and have two cops next to us so they don't throw us yogurt. That's what's gonna happen! The irresponsibility of some ministers is even greater in this respect. You have criticised the previous government that it unfairly banned the cleaners. You reinstate them - and good for you - and then you put them in secretaries' seats! Cleanser in secret! Someone may have the knowledge, someone may not have found another place and gone cleaner, she may have her degree, she may be able to cope with this position. I don't think everyone can handle it, and I say it without wanting to offend anyone. Subsequently you have been awarded invitations to tender to hire semi-employment cleaners. How is this possible, putting the cleaners, which we reincarnated, secretaries, and having a competition, to get them on half-employment - what you accuse of as a Left and do - then with 350 euros a month? That's not serious! The tomatoes will come on us. And no tomatoes, because the people can't throw tomato, but they'll start at us in the buddies and I'm afraid they won't do anything else. That's right. And the other unacceptable is Mr Philly's unacceptable statements. Are we serious? I'm Pontius.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u38	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u39	I'm serious, yeah. In 1994, the House voted not to be genocide? The House did it, not me, not my friend the grocery store. The House decided in 1994 that the suffering suffered by the Pontius was genocide? How does the Minister of Education now come out and says it was ethnic cleansing? How? What right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u40	Don't you know the difference?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u41	What's the difference? Yeah, I know her. We can talk about her later, because time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u42	So they don't think it's genocide. That's what they say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u43	Do you know the difference?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u44	What are you talking about? You're telling me it wasn't genocide, that it was ethnic cleansing? Is that what you want to tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u45	I'm saying if you know the difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u46	Yeah, I know her the difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u47	Who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u48	We'll tell you. However, we have been 15 minutes, and at first I said that I would be brief and concise. The Prime Minister must assume the responsibilities of his choices. It's a disgrace to a man like Mr. Friend to have the future of our children in his hands. It's a disgrace to me! I'm talking like a teacher. What is it that keeps us alive? Our story, that's it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What can I say now? I don't want to abuse time. For these reasons, we reserve what we shall vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Bigfoot. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u50	After the infamous previous colleague, I will not go into general politics, but I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that with Law No4336/2015, in August, the agreement with the partners was passed, and what we are now called on to vote through the multi-project we are debating, in fact they have been voted as prerequisites for a very large part of the counter-population. That is why I, too, think that the posting of a part of the Dispute, which is followed during the debate on the Multifibre Arrangement, is hypocritical and does not honour the vote which they gave in August, when with a large majority Mr von Wogau was voted on. 4336. In the difficult phase in which our country finds itself - because it really is - it does not only need a strong and proclaiming government, which has, of course, been constantly negotiating the issue of red loans, it is an indication of what I have said, but it also needs a responsible opposition, in particular, I would say that, overcoming its internal and internal problems, it must propose and contribute responsibly with proposals so that our country can stand back on its feet and be led to the creative rise of the future. So she must stop plundering and put aside all her ideological obsessions. I'm coming to the bill now. With this Energy Efficiency Legislation, the incorporation of Directive 27/2012, we implement an obligation of our country to ensure that fines are not imposed first of all due to non-implementation and integration, but most importantly and most importantly, we invest in the large part called "energy saving". So, among other things, energy upgrades are planned by incorporating the European Directive and this is essentially a mandatory process, since we are members of the European Union. I would like to point out here that the tactic followed by the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK during the previous period was, in general, delays in the incorporation of European directives into Greek legislation, effectively burying bills and not introducing the timely ones into Parliament, and that was not served by the country at all, rather than by any small-party purposes. The previous New Democracy and PASOK coup d'état has done so - I would say - a profession, with many times the imposition of fines in our country. I would like here to mention that according to the European Union's climate policy, as we know, the targets for 2020 are 20, 20, 20, 20. Twenty to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, 20 to penetrate RES, 20 to save energy. These 2030 objectives have become 40%, 27% and 30% respectively. Of the European Union's climate policies, the achievement of the greenhouse gas emission reduction target by 20% by 2020 seems to be close, as the European Committee on the Environment says that recession, consumption reduction, stability in the steel industry, public works and construction have helped to catch this goal, with a reduction of 19.2% by the end of 2013. But the penetration of the RES has enough time to go through - we have only 12% RES penetration - and energy savings and increased energy efficiency are in nadir, since it is only estimated at 4% at the level of the twenty-eight European Union. One mention only: late November, early December we have in Paris the great event of the World Climate Change Conference, where a legally binding treaty, a new protocol to replace the Kyoto Protocol, must be drawn up and the Greek Parliament must do so as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that it is introduced - in particular - that I am talking about the multi-brand plan - that the state's obligation to convert at least 3% of the total area of public buildings per year with a useful surface over two hundred and fifty square meters. Of course, this is about funds and public investment. The previous New Democracy and PASOK coup d'état had loaded it all up to the NSRF, but of which a lot of money was not used, little was absorbed for this reason. How is it possible to move forward with such a matter that will also save money, due to a reduction in energy consumed and will it have many benefits due to the relative increase in employment and to public works? How would this be without public investment? This provision was posted and there is a list of eighty-two public buildings. All this belongs to the central government. The directive, of course, is not clear if the obligation imposed by the directive includes buildings such as schools, hospitals, many of which are more than a hundred years old - i.e. the 'August' and the Ophthalmary. The policy of the previous government was clear: not imposing regulations or regulations, so that they do not even impose what private companies and potential investors do. Based on this choice, the cost of energy upgrading and increasing energy efficiency in all sectors, dwellings and industries was borne by the Greek State. A good policy would be to adopt regulations or, at the very least, a mixed system with regulations and enforcement measures. According to the bill that we are discussing, it is recommended that companies increase their energy efficiency by various measures, such as the use of rejected heat, an increase in the efficiency of thermal machines, etc. And while it's relatively easy to convince public companies - for example. PPC, ELPE - to invest in such innovative solutions, it is almost unlikely that you will convince with wishful private energy industries to take such measures. On the other hand, there is a need for regulation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a moment, please. As far as the private sector is concerned, the right policy is to combine, as we have said, the enforcement regime and policy measures. The draft law requires that energy distributors and retailers also save energy from their customers each year. It in fact encourages them to deal with savings in practice to reduce the loss of revenue due to savings. So we will be able to achieve the serious energy sector in our country. I would like to say that improving energy efficiency contributes to ensuring the country's energy supply, reducing energy dependence, reducing energy costs, limiting imports of energy resources. Finally, as time is short, I would say that the bill to be discussed includes an important provision for extending high-temperature research and management rights. It is a provision that is promising, since we must at last study and exploit the high-temperature or temperature geothermal fields, as stated in the bill. [[At this point, the repetitive bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] Just a minute, Mr President, I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u51	You're welcome, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u52	These refer to the relevant 2007 IGM assessment study for Milos and other Aegean islands, of course, always under the environmental protection perspective of both the island and the marine environment while operating and developing other developmental forms. Here, I would like to conclude by pointing out that geothermality is an endless form of renewable energy, which is unique to today's technology, which allows for the existence of base points to support the networks. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kafantaris. Mr. Varvitsiotis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a parliamentary stage in discussing provisions for which the relevant ministers have not yet given us the honour to come to us and explain them to us why they need them. They are provisions which have nothing to do with prerequisites, not to be fooled, because the prerequisites in this bill are minimal. The justification for the urgency is pretextary. It is clear here that a number of ministerial amendments will be tabled tomorrow. Mr President, this tale at some point must be over and I am glad that you are in the Chamber, it is your honour that you have sat down on the Members' seats, but it must slowly enter a class in Parliament. There have already been amendments which are irrelevant with the bill, which are irrelevant to the prerequisites, which will implement a party policy in the field of health or elsewhere, which will dismantle people, change administrations. They will and will not be discussed at all. Mr President, it is up to the Bureau to protect Parliament above all and after the majority that supported it. And I'm coming and reacting because I didn't see Mr. Friend coming in the chairs. Mr Philis did not come to the chair today to defend the provisions which he is proposing. After his previous political and national slip, of course, he cannot come to Parliament. It is very difficult to show up and it is very difficult to show itself, not because it has some opinions of minority, which may even reach the limits of graphics on the issue of Pontius Genocide, but because it has today created a major national theme. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the headlines of the largest Turkish newspaper, 'SABAH', which today is on its first page with Mr Philly, the recognition it makes in the fact that there is no podian genocide and, of course, it directly connects this with the Prime Minister's visit to Ankara next week. I put it in the Minutes to understand that some people are not at risk when they say that you should be more prosperous in statements and that you should deal with the issues of responsibility that has been given you seriously and not with the logic of the constant presence in the media, saying inappropriate opinions that come from the past, when SYRIZA was at 3% and no one paid attention to what he said. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, I would like to present something to you, which, unfortunately, the President of Parliament has given you a gift: The book published by the Foundation of the Greek Parliament in 2004 entitled "The Genocide of the Greeks of the Sea" in a campaign to internationalise this issue. And if you really are in the mood to alleviate this slippery that happened the other day, you will have to reprint this book, translate it as translated and distribute it to the embassies and new press offices that you made last week with party volunteers and other friends. To do any work for the benefit of the country. Because these national issues are not just to tell us and to make national krone. They are strong negotiators in an all-material debate to be held. And the search for the National Law or the recognition of the sacrifices made by Greeks over time, defending Thermopoils of Western civilization in this part of the world, is not only done by exchanging as I learn or at least trying to make today and connect red loans to refugees. For us, Greece, the world's soul storehouse, to accept all the refugees who want to make us favourable to red loans! No one in the past has ever connected one to the other. No one has connected the position that Greece must have at the borders of Europe, defending Europe's borders and protecting Europe's borders, from the ancient times until today in any economic exchange and so pragmatic. Make a serious negotiation on economic issues. Make and proceed with reforms quickly. I am pleased that at last you have completed the privatization of airports. If you had done so from the outset, wouldn't you have put this money that should be disbursed in the state budget? Would we be at this pressure to say whether we will offer the Greek people with low VAT, either the calf or the education? If you had gone ahead with the privatizations, as we should have done, would we have reached these dilemmas? About a billion would have entered the state budget this year, and we would not have to tell the winterer of overtaxation what other measures would be devised by the Heads of the Ministry of Finance and the Economic Staff to impose on him by Christmas, because the figures are not coming out. Today, the reactions of the Antipolitics and thankfully, the imposition of a new tax on the small Greek beer industry, which has taken splendid steps in the last few years, have been impacted by the introduction of a new tax on the small Greek beer industry. However, overtaxation remains at the top of your policy. And as long as overtaxation remains, know that there is no chance of finding neither equivalent nor growth. And you will fail and attack that logic of overtaxation all your policies. So take the courage to confront both your internal contradictions and disagreements and condemn the incidents of the type Friends and take the courage to finally acquire a European development policy and not condemn us in a marginal south and bring us today only to the advantage of our country that they have flooded the islands of refugees who cannot leave because the WMO is making a strike. And the mayors come out of the islands and say, "Get the strike, for the refugees to leave the islands." The condition and the mixture you create are explosives and will have painful results both for the country and for the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr Varvichiotis. Mr Skourletis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor for thirteen minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, unbelievable populism!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u57	Mr. Skourlet, to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u58	Yes, to you. And well, make him a man who hasn't painted his hands in memorial decisions, okay, he has every right! But you? The story of agricultural oil - to come to this particular one - of the special discount, in fact, which is being dealt with in this bill with its reduction, was something you knew in August? It was. Did you vote for it? You voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u59	No, we didn't vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u60	So it's not just populism, it's a mockery. But they hear you, they know you well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u61	Mr. Brutsi will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u62	Even - to take it with a baca's logic - five years have been implemented by a tough memorandum policy. Since September, with the agreement of our people, we have been chosen to manage the results of your own policy. The people have chosen us to fight to get out of the crisis. Therefore, the crowns, admonitions and crocodile tears must be abundant, because they listen to us and you are exposed first of all. Ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation of this directive should have taken place since June 2014. It was not under the responsibility of the previous government and despite the laudable effort of Mr Maniotis to tell us 'I had everything done and everything else', he was unable to answer why it was not. And not only that, Mr. Maniot put another issue. He asked us a question: 'Where are you going to find the equivalent of the millions allocated through the NSRP for the 'I Save House' - number 1 - in this second phase? That is why we are working on it, but I would like to remind him that for two years now, it has had to draw up new studies on the modification of the Centre, the Energy Efficiency Regulation. And right now this is our problem. We have a problem of heresy in order to be able to formulate our own proposals as part of the ETUC phase. So the previous rulers are also responsible for this. However, I must point out that this bill is not just an obligation to transpose a directive. This is a substantial draft law, which forms part of a package of regulations promoted by the Ministry in the direction of energy savings, in the context of a more general energy policy. This is a bill that can give our economy a strong development and create new jobs. We have also worked out this bill in such a way that, at the same time, there is a social profile in a way that creates direct and rewarding benefits for the citizen. I would like to mention something that we have heard in the debate in committee and I consider it the most critical phrase on the specific incorporation of the directive - mentioned by Mrs Theodora Nantsu from WWF - 'the essential thing is not to incorporate it, but to implement it'. And this is where we should all be judged. It is - I think - a phrase that confuses precisely the problems we have from now on. Energy saving is a sector with huge potential, with many potential for use and with immediate results for citizens, businesses, the national economy and households. At the same time, it is characterised by a wide dissemination, which is why all of us, small and larger consumers, need to be active in order to achieve an important result. Although energy savings in all areas should be seen as self-evident, significant steps have not been taken so far. To harmonize this directive, but in particular its effective implementation, in conjunction with other measures, incentives and policies, can actually bring about a positive energy and economic mark in the country and, above all, to consolidate the necessary energy consciousness, the lack of which is a brake on essential energy reforms. Our own government's bet is that energy savings should in practice be a development pillar and our efforts at the Ministry will focus not only on continuing any good practices that have been implemented in the past but on highlighting and diffusing savings in all sectors of the economy in general. I would say, above all, that we should actually abandon the logic of energy smuggling. This draft law therefore sets out a specific national indicative target for energy savings by 2020. This objective, which has been analysed by the relevant services of the Ministry with the support of the Renewable Energy Centre, the CAP, on the basis of the estimates of economic development, is that the country's final energy consumption should be at 18.4 megawatts in 2020. In a series, that is, from economic and efficient measures and actions we must limit our consumption, but without reducing the level of living. The aim, namely, is not to stop consuming energy, but to stop wasting it. We have to make it clear that the main thing is not only to catch the goal, but to implement energy savings measures, as these measures are the ones that will actually lead to a change of attitude. In any case, for monitoring the progress of achieving the objective, but also for individual measures and policies, coordination and cooperation between all relevant authorities and state bodies is required. All energy efficiency improvement measures should be reflected in the preparation and implementation of national energy efficiency action plans submitted to the Energy Commission. He said earlier that 'you know, we submitted our own report and saved the fines'. It's not true. This is a different, separatist issue. The fact that fines have not yet been imposed has to do with functions of the European Commission itself. We hope - and this is why we have opted for the urgent nature of the bill - by tabling, debate and, of course, by completing it and by voting on the bill, eventually to get away with it. Energy efficiency action plans are already provided for by the 2008/32 Directive. The first action plan was drawn up in 2008, the second in 2011, and in 2014 the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan was drawn up in accordance with the guidelines set out in Directive 2012/27. As far as implementation is concerned, particular emphasis is placed on the role of the public sector. Although the exemplary role of the public sector is described in other relevant legislations, much has been done in practice. This draft law clarifies the public sector's problems and concrete measures are put in place. In particular, I quote: Every year, 3% of the surface of the private-owned buildings of the central government has to be energy-intensively upgraded with a surface of over 250 square meters. Energy upgrading of public buildings is a very important issue, which obviously requires resources. The aim is to make use of Community funds from cash and regional operational programmes in a transparent manner, which will ensure the upgrading of buildings, particularly in the most energy-efficient of them. For the proper implementation of the upgrading of public buildings, real needs need to be identified and the programmes should then be planned. I think we all have to agree that we must finally set a rational and transparent framework that serves the interests and needs of the country. The most energy-efficient buildings, such as hospitals, buildings with high consumption, must first be upgraded. In addition to the targeted radical renovation of certain energy-intensive buildings, the implementation of broad and mass horizontal interventions should also be considered to involve the entire public sector. To this end we propose to the draft law that regions and municipalities draw up action plans for the renovation of their buildings and establish energy management systems. Another important point is that of public procurement. Ministries and independent authorities must buy high-efficiency products, services and buildings as long as this is in line with economic efficiency. Finally, public procurement is of particular importance. This is an essential part of this bill. It is now horizontally coordinated by the General Secretariat of Trade in conjunction with the promotion of so-called 'green' procurement. An important point in the bill is the adoption of a system of energy audits, which will be mandatory for all major companies. This is a measure which, of course, requires the creation of a register of certified energy auditors, the establishment of a control mechanism both by the energy auditors and by the audited undertakings, the provision of appropriate directives and guidelines to the business world, the adoption of incentives to widen energy audits and the implementation of the measures proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, what emerged from the debate in the committees is that at least the part of the bill that we are discussing on energy issues ensures a broader consensus and that is something quite positive. However, I would also like to refer to other points which I consider to be extremely critical. For example, I did not understand why this abstention in the amendment that comes to Drapetson and Keratsini. What for? What's bothering you? What kind of interests do you want to serve right now? This is a regulation which takes account of the needs of the wider region of Piraeus. It will proceed despite the pressures from here and from there and you can be certain that it will eventually give breath of life to this afflicted region. Finally, I would also like to make a reference to the JRC's colleagues. You've made a criticism, which I really don't understand. You say that for the energy savings to be made in public buildings who will pay for it - the people again. Note this logic, because if any positive measures you put it under this light, I fear very much that you are leading to a full state of aphasia. What do you think can finally be done in the present circumstances - modern capitalism, in any case - which should be allowed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u63	Nothing can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u64	Anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u65	For the people, nothing can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u66	Of course, be careful: When a project is done, there are suppliers, there are aluminas, painters, people who put insulations, etc. Are you saying that they have no impact on jobs? Honestly, there is a need for you to go a little further with your thoughts. Finally, Mr Varvitsiotis, and the others you have said so, I would like to refer to Mr Phile. Now I see you're calm, now you're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u67	No, we're not. We're bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u68	The news is not what Mr. Friends said in question about a post he had written as a journalist a year ago. The news is the patriopathy and all this systematic targeted targeting operation... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...not just Mr. Friend, but of one minister after another, with the help of the systemic media.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u69	You're not ashamed of yourself! Like you're not a little embarrassed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u70	You know, we can handle this kind of war.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u71	And the "SABAH" systemic means is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u72	The Greek Parliament has a position, it is well known, it is respected. The government is in position. So stop playing dangerous games.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u73	And "SABAH" and Turkish newspapers are systemic?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u74	Do we play dangerous games?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u75	Yeah, dangerous toys. People'sism has its limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u76	Did you say about the major issue your Minister created?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u77	Your opposition has their limits. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u78	Apologise!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u79	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u80	Retire Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u81	Minister, please, not dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u82	I don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u83	Do you agree with what Mr. Friend said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u84	I'm done. I just want to mention that some legislative improvements are being tabled. They are mainly questions of control and renumbering of the bill. I'm putting it down for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u85	I would like to refer to some of the amendments that are accepted. One concerns the calculation of the duration of authorisations for station facilities and final RES connection offers. It is Mr Sifakis' amendment, with a general number of 29 and a special number of 15. Another amendment concerns adding to the transitional provisions specific spatial planning and sustainable development frameworks for operational EIA projects prior to entry into force. It is an amendment by Mr Sifakis again, with a general number of 41 and a special number of 27. The next amendment, which is accepted, is the subject of 'Reapplying revocation or lifting of temporal expropriation or commitment'. This is an amendment tabled by Mrs Theopevette, with a general number of 21 and a special 7. These are two other amendments and I shall conclude. It is the amendment again by Mrs Aphrodite Theopevtatus, concerning rules of a urban nature, with a general number of 19 and a special number of 5. Finally, it is Mrs Theopevtou's amendment, under a general number of 18 and a special number 4, which relates to planning provisions. This is an extension of public building permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u86	These amendments have been distributed. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u87	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u88	Mr. Maniotis, you're asking for the floor on staff. To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u89	The staff are, Mr President, that the honourable Minister has made the honour of referring to me three times, and I ask him for a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u90	Here, you have a minute to develop the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u91	Minister, I've been working on this bill for about a half and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u92	The European directive.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u93	I also worked on it, having a very tough and very serious consultation with the citizens and finished it in September. You lived in Greece in September 2014, Minister? Because anyone who lived in this place understands that the government's legislative priorities, when the pavement was upright, were others and nobody had the time to go through incorporating a directive. But, Minister, let's say I've been late three months, because another three months there was that government. But I prepared it and handed it over to you to Genaris. You nine months that you've been ruling what exactly you did to bring it in a long time? That's the first question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u94	Since 2012, it has been.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President. The second question, Minister, is this: It is very interesting that you are commenting - I do not know who you are commenting on, obviously - that when we incorporate a directive, we need to be provided for the implementation of the directive. Minister, in our own days 500 million euros were invested by the "I save at home" for fifty thousand poor families and we paid 12 000 workers in the winter construction industry. You, who have been responsible for the new programming period, the ETUC for ten months, can you inform the House how much money you will invest in the new "Security" and when will you start throwing this money into the real economy, since this money has also been guaranteed by us from the ETUC? I wanted to put these two in place, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u96	Where was the staff, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u97	Where was the staff, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u100	I would ask you, Minister, not to have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u101	Mr. Maniot put something in. For a minute, Mr President, I would like the floor, because Mr Maniotis was not in the Chamber. I told him that we were inherited a two-year delay in connection with the necessary studies, which should have been submitted, to amend the CENAC, which is a prerequisite for moving forward with the new stage of the ESDP. And you're bored with this. Don't do it now that you don't understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u102	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Brutsi, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, they say that where hypocrisy arises, the courage is born. And I say this, because we have just heard the Minister, Mr Skourletis in particular, who had the courage to invoke the New Democracy and all the opposition of the House for what he had to be ashamed of, because he has repeatedly deceived the Greek people and the workers and pensioners and all the unemployed of the country. Mr. Skourletis, are you - and your party - not the Minister of the EUR 751 minimum wage?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u104	You're 751, you've reduced him!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u105	Mr. Skourletis, aren't you and your party the ones you'd sketch the ENPIA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u106	Mercy! 751 must be seen as a nightmare in your sleep!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u107	Do you have the nerve to talk? Please respect the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u108	You're the one who's making fun of the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u109	The Minister cannot speak and discontinue the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u110	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u111	You were supposed to be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u112	You must be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u113	You were in the Constitution along with the unemployed and the workers and you paid them 751 euros and they have been ten months, you have deceived them and abandoned the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u114	I would ask you not to have a dialogue. Proceed to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u115	Me, Mr. President? But does the Minister interrupt the speaker of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u116	He was interrupted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u117	Please do not engage in dialogue and proceed to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u118	Mr President, is the Minister interrupting and is the speaker responsible?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u119	You forsake me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u120	I begged you not to have a dialogue. The request is not to engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u121	I'm going on, Mr. President. So Mr Skourletis and his party, representing as Minister, is the Minister who said he would tear the memorandum apart and there will be no EVIA. Today, the Greek housekeeper, the Greek housekeeper, pays EVIA higher than last year, as they entered both the accommodation and the hotels.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u122	What are you lying about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u123	He is the minister who was next to the farmers along with the Prime Minister when they did the strikes, and he was throwing them rocked rabbits. Today, this bill brings for the first time the abolition of the reduced consumption tax for farmers, fishermen and farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u124	Don't you remember what you voted for in August? Such caravans in this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u125	He doesn't say August. You don't know what you're voting for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u126	It is the Minister representing a party that blamed the social benefits of the previous government for six hundred thousand families who had a financial problem, the so-called 'Article 21', which was launched by the Samara government. On January 1, 2013, 755 million euros were provided for six hundred thousand families. When we brought this state-of-the-art measure, which put it into order the whole social policy system of the state, they accused it and denounced it as crumbs. And today they don't pay the crumbs either. That's nerve! So, in order to make it easier for both SYRIZA Members and to unlock the process, we of the New Democracy, headed by the President of the Vangelis Meimarakis Party, have tabled an amendment today which we want to accept from all the Members. The amendment relates to the abolition of 23% VAT on education and the reintroduction to 13% of VAT on old age. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'll testify to her for the Minutes. Will you vote for it? If anyone now tells me - not by the Members, because they are not responsible, but by the government - 'Give us equivalent', I will reply to him with the equivalent that you have said. They are the things you have won and deceived the people, but you have done nothing to implement them. So it's the Lagard list. As equivalent, it was EUR 3 billion the amount you said in your programming statements that you would get from the Lagard list. It's been ten months. How much did you bring? Zero! So take the equivalent. The equivalent is tax evasion. Smuggling is the equivalent. Fully equivalent. What did you do? Do you deceive or have you put your hands down and not work?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u127	And we have fewer revenues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u128	So we are tabling the amendment and we are calling today for it to be accepted by the Members of the SYRIZA, because the Prime Minister also promised it in the debate. You remember what he said. He said there won't be 23% in education. With regard to the other issues, on Mr Philly, I have now suddenly seen a glimpse of the Minister's interest in wanting to support him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u129	He agrees, it seems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u130	Listen, you have just seen Mr Varvitsiotis presenting the front page of the biggest newspaper in circulation. There may be an internal discontent - and it does well - for SYRIZA by the citizens, the Pontian associations, the parties for this atom and slipping Mr. Friends, but also for the Prime Minister, who in an unprecedented way, the deafening silence, has not taken a stand, to clarify what the government's position on this issue is. Something else happened, which now makes me suspicious, and me and the whole society. Do you know - with a question tabled by my colleague, Mr Varvitsiotis - that his predecessor, Mr. Friend at the Ministry of Education, removed from the examination material of the Third High School the history of Pontian Hellenism? You know that? Today it's on all social media first news. So is Mr. Friend's stench and the defense of Mr. Skourletis innocent, or are you all involved in a degrading of Greek history, the historical memory of Hellenism? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people have heard you today. He'll definitely draw his conclusions. Make one bluff after the other. That's your right. But you have no right to play with history, with Hellenism, with our national issues. I would say to you - and I have said before Mr Lykoudi, and I agree - that we must be in a manner of sympathy to you, because today you are faced with your lies, with your past, with your behaviour, with your inconsistency, with regard to the parliamentary procedure. Remember what you were saying! All bills in these ten months are under the urgency or urgency procedure. But also enter new parliamentary practices. New parliamentary morals are what your ministers, who detest the House and the Members of Parliament, do, and while they have a number of provisions within the bill, do not come to explain to the Members and to Parliament what these provisions are. I am sure, therefore, that the climate in which this debate is being held in this House is also heavy, because it is also heavy on issues relating to the economy and society. I, ladies and gentlemen, will simply tell you about issues relating to current political topicality, issues that open up before us. I would like to tell you that the attacks of your Ministers' statements have led the economy, society, people into confusion, to uncertainty. We all now feel like we're losing the earth under our feet. No one feels the confidence of a government that has a compass of direction and determination about where the Greek economy is going. Open the issues of first home auctions. There is widespread uncertainty when - I remind you - no confiscation has been made to this day nor to a home. And it is now wide open and you have not taken a stand as a government about what will happen and where the framework of the auctions will be defined. You have not talked about the hundred doses, the famous hundred doses that have been converted into fiasco, and today the citizens who believed you and voted for you in September and cannot find any difference, because there is still a subjective crisis and it has not been determined by ministerial decision - which is necessary to come out - how the new compromise will become, if any. Thus, by the thousands they depart from the famous setting of the hundreds, which you supported so much and eventually turned into a fiasco and trap for hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs and citizens. On the issue of the unemployed: the October 'ERGAN', unfortunately for our country, is being launched again in a new record. You need to get the evidence out in the next space. It is the "ERGANI" which you at first stage advertised because it was doing well. And when she started making negative results, you stopped showing her. It is the tool that, unfortunately, shows that unemployment is being launched. It is your well-known statement as a government that you will eliminate unemployment and that it is this 'bad' government, the previous one, to the level of unemployment. It is the oil allowance that we are reading - because the ministerial decision is still pending - and you had to clarify it, because winter is coming - that four hundred thousand miners who would receive the oil subsidy that they took from the previous government last year and last year will not get it from the socially sensitive government of SYRIZA. There's even a lot of confusion about pension. About four hours ago we had a debate in the Committee on Social Security and I asked the current Minister for Health about the famous 6% cut in supplementary pensions, who was baptized to go to health. And there was an answer. The answer was no! He didn't even go to health...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u131	Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u132	...from the reduction of supplementary pensions cut in August by 6% and for the most part smuggled the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u133	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u134	You did not hear the answer, Mr. Brutsi! You didn't hear her!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u135	Please, ladies, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u136	Don't yell, Mr. President, liars! Lying liars can't yell!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u137	It's not a ladder here, Mr. President! The game starts at night! They are systematically interrupted, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u138	They're yelling to fear the housekeeper!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u139	Carry on, Mr. Brutsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u140	Okay, I understand SYRIZA's confusion. I understand that he is facing - and that is why you have this reaction - with lies and mocking to the Greek people! And because you are now collecting this from the Greek people who can't go, as you used to go, telling them fairy tales, you come to the House to bail again reactions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you will see the reaction in society where you lied and cheated on the Greek people three times!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u141	That's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u142	Three times! In January, with the referendum and September with the parallel programme and the equivalents! We're here and we're waiting! But even when you legislate, you should be more careful. Do not legislate on your knees or clips, as the breaches begin within you. And in a short time - I guess politically that will happen - one side of the government will run against the other to catch up with the other. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That started today. The reaction of the Opposition on the one hand and the great, unfair issue against the micro-breeders of the Greek industry brought the first breach. The half side of the government sold you, the one that supports you. Sooner or later, "licensed"! You have taken a political cost on you, which is your right! But look out! Do not experiment with the economy and entrepreneurship in general. It is your right and you will receive the political cost, as is the government's internal balance and its stability. However, the future of the Greek economy and the future of our country is not your right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Brutsi. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u144	Mr President, are we not going in turn? Aren't the MPs talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u145	It goes once and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u146	He asked for the floor. That's why I gave him up. Look! When Parliamentary Representatives and Ministers ask for the floor, they are required to take it. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. It is not up to the President to violate the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today beyond the incorporation into the Greek law of the Community Energy Efficiency Directive includes a number of other heirous and fragmentary provisions. The main thing, however, is that you continue to legislate manually, fragmentedly, without a goal for dignity and a rule of law, but with trends of centralisation - and I will explain why - with a downgrading of the role of the institutions of self-government and without a real dialogue with society. The first part of our bill is, unfortunately, confronted with the violation of the concept of 'good law', as it consists of the first article which includes pension arrangements and calls on Parliament to know - to vote for provisions which it had voted for only a few days ago. I am talking about that provision according to which Mr v. 3865/2010 on the method of calculating pensions in the public sector will also apply to those who have established a pension entitlement and left the service from 1-1-2015 to 31-8-2015. The Government, referring to a mismatch which was obviously carried out by mistake, as it points out, and making the relevant provisions inapplicable, admitted that the acceding Minister was ignorant that the provision for which he requested an opinion from the Court of Auditors was altered and otherwise incorporated into the draft law. As a result, the Minister and the Government have misled, by mistake or intentionally - let us say by mistake - the entire legislative body is voting on a wrong text, by stepping up the insecurity of the citizens, which this regulation touches on. At best, we can say something about this process. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it does not honour this Greek Parliament, and all of us and the parliamentary groups must stress it. The government must be more serious in these matters. It is indeed for us that fundamental pension rights should be abolished and for the first time those who have chosen to stay in work should be punished instead of leaving. For this reason, the Democratic Reconciliation has called for a concrete change, which was initially committed by the Deputy Minister for Social Security, Mr Petropoulos, to the committee. That is why we have also brought in a specific amendment calling for the fundamental rights of 18 August 2015 not to be affected and for the right to retirement to be exercised at any time. Unfortunately, the responsible State Secretary, who accepted - and has been recorded in the Minutes - is not here at the beginning of this change. He said that there would be an amendment that would overshadow it, and certainly not only did he not make it clear in the next period what he meant, but with his note - as we heard - after two hours, he said that he does not override it in the end, showing a situation which only seriousness can not show how we legislate and how Parliament is currently legislating. Let me make some important points about the second part of the bill, about the articles from 2 to 23, which harmonizes with Greek legislation Directive 2012/27 on energy efficiency. It of course leaves gaps in the way in which the provisions laid down are based. The first serious labelling concerns the creation of a Special Energy Efficiency Fund to finance programmes and other energy efficiency improvement measures, the development of the energy service market and the implementation of social measures. And here is the question of the feasibility of creating this fund. No matter how much we asked, we didn't get any specific answers. What are the reasons for the creation of another public body and the need for new administrative costs to be borne by the State? In addition, given the existence of the Green Fund, how will it be ensured that the creation of this new fund does not lead to a delay or a fragmentation of economic sources for the environment? Nor can I express the dissent of the Democratic Integration, because, as provided for in the bill, energy audits will be carried out by people without training, but only by specific experience. We ask here: how will the work of auditors be ensured and its credibility ensured? This arrangement can easily open the door to populism and guilds. And because we have heard about populism, not to forget the populism that we have recently experienced in relation to too many issues and too many changes of opinion and positions on all issues, from negotiation to public debt. I do not want to talk about the general issues at the moment, but I think we should be very careful, especially at this point in time, when we talk about populism. The Democratic Reconciliation, therefore, has repeatedly pointed out the need for the energy auditors to pass through the National Accreditation System. Ladies and gentlemen, we are making this criticism in good faith, and we have made it clear that these articles which harmonise Greek legislation with Community law, most of what is in the right direction, most of which will be supported, but which do not constitute the majority of this bill. Unfortunately, the third part of this bill, to which I am going to refer now, overrides any positive fact, any positive regulation exists. And I shall refer specifically to this. We were really amazed by the influx of provisions of responsibility from various ministries. I will only focus on four main points and tomorrow's debate will discuss the articles in greater detail. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really understand what the provisions of Part Three of the bill will actually bring about? They have a significant impact on the primary sector, on small and medium-sized enterprises. And as far as education is concerned, we cannot understand why, while the country needs a comprehensive bill, a change, a reform of education, there is a fragmentary arrangement, which we have asked you to withdraw for certain reasons. What we need is to move on to deep areas, to establish pragmatic processes. That's all you're doing in the third part of this bill. To be clearer, therefore, Article 51 abolishes the tax exemptions for farmers in diesel and increases the excise duty from EUR 66 to EUR 200 per kilogram. Indeed, this measure has retroactive effect. So we ask you - and we asked you in the committees too - something that was your announcement by January 2015: why do we not move here today on agricultural oil, on the basis of acres and the type of cultivation? Why don't we introduce farm oil for next year? We tabled a specific amendment on this issue, to which we call for the introduction of the Agricultural Oil Card from 1-1-2016, given the need to support agricultural production, exports and income support in agriculture and livestock. We call on all the governments of Parliament to support this effort. The competitiveness of products under Article, the regulation you bring, is reduced in relation to products from other European Union countries which have introduced the use of agricultural oil. This measure, in fact, which you are bringing forward - and we are tabling an amendment, which needs to be voted on - comes in conjunction with other regulations that are expected to come in the next few years, but have already been announced and which have brought enormous upsets to farmers right now. With the taxation of Community aid with 26%, an element that does not apply anywhere in the European Union at the moment, with the increase in VAT on agricultural supplies from 13% to 23%, while VAT in all euro area countries is below 13% at this time, with the tripling of insurance contributions, with the advance payment of 100%, no one will be left to produce. We need to get this straight. The Minister is not here to answer these questions. There is a disturbance in the rural population. In the committees we have asked for all the rural organizations to come. Unfortunately, although the groups have asked for a lot of rural bodies to come, they were not invited to the hearing, so there is no complete information at this time. We have a measure in front of us, which you have accepted, from what we have learned, in the negotiation. We are therefore calling for agricultural oil to be introduced directly from next year, based on the acres and the type of cultivation. As far as the other articles are concerned, I shall refer only to the most important ones. You have an article, Article 53, which provides for the transfer of four thousand and twenty-thousand major tax cases from the ILO to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue and the creation of five hundred organic positions at the General Secretariat. We believe that the fight against tax evasion is necessary, but it is not just a matter of revenue. It must satisfy the sense of law right now among the citizens. However, we still do not know what is going on with the remaining thirty-four thousand cases which are still pending, as the ILO has about thirty-eight cases in total, and the bill provides for four thousand twenty-eight major cases to be carried over. So we ask: will the tax control in these four thousand twenty cases begin from zero, or will the advancement made be taken into account? We have asked the committees to come to the appropriate Minister for Finance to answer the thirty-four thousand cases. He didn't come. We hope that it will come to plenary to answer this question by the government, namely what is going on and how all these cases will be dealt with. With Article 31, ladies and gentlemen, you are amending provisions on the National Waste Management Plan and Regional Waste Management Plans and redefining the relevant elaboration process. On the substance, however, there is a serious problem, which is typical and substantial, with regard to the part relating to the approval of the Regional Waste Management Plans. Another phase of approval, at government level, is being introduced, adding bureaucracy, with any negative consequences. With regard to the formal problem, the proposed regulation comes as a matter of urgency, and it has not been requested by a elected body and the revision process of the regions' MAGPs is under way. These, gentlemen of the government, we don't. Mrs. Duru says so. And it has not been undone that it has not been requested by a elected body and that it has come and that the procedure for the revision of the RDPs of the regions is under way, as you said. Therefore, if you do not want to respond to us, you must respond to the regional authorities who have raised these specific issues with you. You have attempted for us an incomprehensible arrangement: firstly, the assent of the Ministry's Secretary-General should be needed so that the government approves or rejects the decision of a regional council on waste management. In order to understand the intentions, it is sufficient to note that when we asked in the bill on broadcasting licences that an independent authority, the National Broadcasting Council, should be consulted, you refused and insisted that the competent Minister of State be the only person responsible for the number of licences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this bill, however, you have attempted exactly the opposite: where jurisdiction belongs to the regions, there is agreement from the Ministry. The exact opposite. Should we be abolishing beyond the independent authorities and local authorities and regional authorities? I would like to make a special reference to education - and I will see you in the articles - and the unresolved problems it faces. We have seen the question of regional training directors, of the thirteen regions, who were placed 11 by SYRIZA - two of the ANELs. We saw it and we lived it. We now have Article 42 which abolishes the service councils before the end of their term of office. We have asked for clarification why you are abolishing the service councils before the end of the term of office. Does that recommend progress? Let us agree, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a need for a comprehensive educational reform. It's time to discuss a comprehensive bill. It is no honour to discuss this article here, which I specifically mention only for education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] If, at least, you believe in the announcements of social cohesion, you can only accept our proposals. We have made six amendments. Any other action will have the effect of affecting social cohesion. The support of the Greek family is now more necessary than ever and not the imposition of new difficult measures. That is why, even now, we ask you to accept our proposals. We are trying to make a constructive opposition. We have tabled specific amendments which we have mentioned, and I think that these amendments can be accepted. This bill could be termed a far-reaching example of inadequacy on many issues. It incorporates the Community directive into Greek legislation, which is indeed necessary, but leaves many loopholes in legislation. It significantly affects the primary sector and small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u148	Please finish, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u149	Of course, it does not honour anyone that the Members of the ruling party, SYRIZA, have voted in the committee to come to the plenary. Despite the reaction of the entire Opposition, it was necessary for the Greeks' Party of Independents from the Greeks from the Politics and, unfortunately, it was necessary for your co-government, the People's Right, to try to influence you so that this does not finally come to the bill. At the end of the day you voted to come to Parliament. We are not talking about it today, despite your vote. The main thing, however, is that the bill shows that you do not understand what needs to be done to overcome the crisis. For all these reasons, then, the Democratic Alliance will vote against the bill in principle. It will, of course, be voting on those articles and regulations which are essential for the effective harmonisation of Greek legislation in Community directives, because that is what our logic demands. We would like you to take a serious look at the amendments we have tabled. These amendments show how consensus needs to be obtained. You're asking for a consensual. Show it really in the amendments that we have brought! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u151	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u152	We've arranged for you to take the floor a little later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u153	So that I don't take the floor twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u154	Just after the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u155	Members should also speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u156	Can I have the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u157	Now you've told me. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panagiotaros, has the floor. I started announcing Mr. Panayotaro and asked for the floor, Mr. Tsironi. However, it was planned to speak after two Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u158	So I don't have to take the floor twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u159	Oh, no. You'll take him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u160	I could ask him on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u161	You want the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u162	So I don't want to take the floor on personal grounds...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u163	Then you'll speak properly. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. I would agree with Mr Skourletis when he spoke to the rapporteur of the New Democracy and said that the New Democracy is overflowing with populism, not for the reason he mentioned, for memorial reasons, that Mr Skourletis blamed Mr Varvitsiotis. But you who voted for the Memorandums and August and the third Memorandum, now you come and tell us more. We will accuse the New Democracy of populism and sparrows of much more serious issues on national issues. Who can forget Mrs Reposi's book written with the approval of the New Democracy and Minister, Mrs Giannakou, where she was talking about 'costism' on the shores of Izmir, just like that? May I remind Mr Varvitsiotis, who suddenly loved Greece and homeland, his statements about the flags that burned that a piece of cloth was, that it was not something terrible that we should make a topic? Should we remind the New Democracy of Mr. Gerontopoulos' presence as State Secretary for Foreign Affairs at the inauguration of the Kemal Ataturk Museum, you know what they say was his residence which was not his residence, but which the Turks have exploited and used in such a way? We reached the point on October 26, on the day of the celebration of St. Dimitrios, the liberation of Thessaloniki, thousands of Turks with Turkish flags, with flowers outside the false building of Kemal Ataturk, celebrating and doing theirs. We also recall the report by a New Democracy MEP who referred to the Pontius as Russians and after the intense reactions of the Golden Dawn wing, took it back, etc. One more thing: Very nice indeed, the book published by the Greek Parliament in 2004 on the Pontian Genocide, but you remembered it too late, Mr Varvitsiotis. Here I see a question from the Golden Dawn just since February 2013 that refers to the reasons why this book is not published again, while others are constantly being published. It looks like it was a very good version, it was interesting, it hurt some people, and that's why they don't extradite it. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] We cannot talk about populism on the part of SYRIZA and about Mr. Friend's statements and about the official support he had from SYRIZA through Mr. Amanatidis, who said that Mr. Friend expressed personal scientific views, very simply because these were always the positions of SYRIZA, anti-ethnic, by a party of necropsy, who was always on the front for anything anti-ethnic and anti-ethnic. However, what has not been sufficiently commented on, is what they mentioned before about the headline of ‘SABAH’ that is not just that, it is also ‘BIRLIK’, it is also all the newspapers, it is all the Turkish press comments and not just. I am presenting for the Minutes the cuts from the Turkish newspapers and the question Mr Gregos had asked in 2013. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The most serious and important thing of all is that when there is a genuine national government at some point and wants to raise the issue of the Wars Genocide at world level, it is recognised as the Armenians, who operate united, methodically, never stopping and succeed in recognising one country of the world's world war after the Armenian genocide, when there will be a national government and will want to bring this issue everywhere, so that the Pontian genocide will also be recognised, will we be moved by the statements of Mr. Friend and other SYRIZA officials not only the Turks who are not interested in their opinion, but from the UN, from elsewhere, from the European Union, and they will say: 'But, here, ministers of government tell you other people, and you are here asking us to acknowledge the Genocide of the Pontians'? That's the point. Let's not talk about the role of the Independent Greeks, a patriotic, inside or out of introductorys, party - put the introductorys, if you like - that, with a simple, "lit" statement, took their tail out of the door, as they had taken it out a few months ago when the bill on citizenship came. They thought that after it was passed by the others, we would vote against it and it's all right. We'll all be happy. And we in the ministerial thorns, in the coup d'état, will dismantle the country, and it won't run a complete one. I repeat that we couldn't expect anything different from Mr. Friends and from atheists and negligents. We have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur earlier that, apart from the other relief measures for the Greek society that are now coming as a prerequisite and not only in the very positive act, the so-called "evaluation" - keep this word - on the coast front of Keratsini - Drapetsonas. A monument of industrial archaeology will be created. One who doesn't know, when he hears of making use of the coastal front, he'll think of something great plank. Organize two-day and three-day tourists in Psythtalia with dives in the coliforms or in the spaghetti! The problem is another, gentlemen, that you are constantly talking about development but you do not know a word about it. Not to become a monument to industrial archaeology, the various factories whose figars once smoked and worked there hundreds of thousands of workers. There was production. That's how growth is being created. Not to be a museum, for example, the Fertilizers Museum and others. You artificially closed them and now enter the fertilisers. The Greek farmer pays for gold and depends on imports. You should bring bills, articles, laws, which are to do with job creation rather than with the alleged use of space. We have also seen from other uses what is happening, either from the state or from private individuals. The only people who benefit will be the well-known big-workers who will take these jobs again with the NRP, co-financing that they only get. Of course the remaining 50% - 60% is paid by the Greek people. Other loans and other debts to make use of something that should be an active industrial area and produce. People want jobs. We see that for many years there is an amendment on the Music House. We're going to give an insurance card to a bankruptcy memorial. Over 240m euros owes the Congregation of Music to twenty-two years of its operation. Some cultures call it "source of creation" and "source of culture", to go on their own, the following specific ones for twenty-two years, themselves. In general, the general public did not have the opportunity to attend. However, this had nothing to do with whether it had the general public or the least general public. You gave 240 million with the guarantee of the Greek public loan and unscrupulously, such as many others, and at the same time you ask for measures for much less than 240 million of the 240s you gave the Congregation of Music. In fact, since you want growth so much and if you want to help the primary sector - you say it, you say it, but of course you do not believe it - you also give insurance tax information to the hundreds of thousands of Greek small and medium-sized enterprises who, not for 240 million but for a few thousand euros, cannot make an update. Wherever they come from, they see a wall. Wall from the banks that financed only frauds, mostly friends of politicians or politicians, hatreds, lovitours, who financed great music, which financed various unrelated things that had nothing to do with development, but nothing about the primary sector. If you so much want to help, you also give insurance tax information to farmers. Not triple the price of oil, which is their main weapon, so that they can produce. And the tractor wants oil and the machines want oil and in the greenhouses it needs oil, everywhere it takes oil to do all the work. Do it, to make them competitive not in terms of Asians or Chinese or Africans - we cannot compete with them - but with our Italian neighbours. It's next door. Because if you see how much the agricultural oil is sold in Italy, how much the VAT is on agricultural products in Italy, how much are all the costs of the farmer in Italy, you will understand why all Greek supermarkets have been filled up, even in manaviques, with Italian products, which are cheaper than Greek ones. And we all wonder why. There, why! We have been constantly listening for many years to what Giorgakis Papandreou had been doing for the first time - I think in 2001 - for green development. He talked everywhere where he was, and he told everyone that you should stop everything and deal with green development, make photovoltaic and wind parks. And we see the results. We take PPC's account and more than 50% of the account is regulated charges and most of them have to do with green growth. This green development we've paid for gold. And with what you're bringing us now and want to do, we'll pay her twice as much gold and more expensive. This is not green growth. This is 'green horses' and mocking at the expense of the Greek people, who cannot pay. EUR 2.5 billion is unpaid accounts to PPC. Do you see them? First look at the reality, see what happens, and then deal with things that you have no idea, of course, neither green development nor any of. Gentlemen of the government, you remained consistent, you remained faithful only to your specific anti-national positions, which you had many years ago, when you were at 3% and not now that you are at 33% or I don't know where else. While you did not do the same for all the rest that you were saying when you were in opposition, either for the tearing-up of the memorials by an article or for the audit of the debt, for the removal of the majority of the debt as disguised, as illegal, and so forth, for the abolition of HPAI, which has led you to many times to power, for the fact that you would not reduce pensions, that you would not reduce the wages - EUR 751 would be the lowest wage - when you were in the bars for the loan, these hundreds of billions of euros that Germany owes to Greece, but which you do not dare bring on the table and enter them in some budget at last and then see what has to do. You are the same and worse as your predecessors. Clearly, we are voting against this bill in principle and tomorrow on the articles, we will be in detail on all matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u165	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Chironis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too have to start from the topical issue of the Pontian Genocide for one single reason: because the previous speakers have said a lot, because I am half Pontius, and my grandfather has been miraculously saved under the twelve bodies of his sisters. So because I grew up in a family from my mother with a lost homeland, I'm very sensitive to the subject, and I know very well what happened to Pontto. And I know it from my people. I don't know about it from the books. I don't need the books. But if we want to take a serious look at this, we need to see what happened there. And because I looked into it and went to Europe and spoke with institutions, I will explain to you - so that the Greek citizens finally learn - what is different from ethnic cleansing, at least as some agencies define it, without having to make history. Ethnic cleansing is a marked crime equal to genocide. Different is on purpose. In ethnic cleansing crime is massively committed and committed to force a population to leave its homes, and in genocide crime is done to eliminate a genocide. Here are the historical examples that some do not recognize, that in the genocide of the Jews, at least in the early years of Nazi governance, ethnic cleansing. Terrorism, confiscation and systematic murders were done to disarm the populations. This is recognised in the Nuremberg court. Later - quite a few times later - he chose the Nazi regime now to encapsulate the Jews, instead of prosecute them, and systematically destroy them in concentration camps, which was called genocide. So the same regime in the same peoples executed both crimes. I confess I'm not a historian. I can't tell if my grandfather's brothers killed them to kill the Hellenism of Pontou or kill them to steal their property and force the living to escape terrified. But can I tell you something? My grandmother, who knew a few letters, no genocide, no ethnic cleansing, said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u167	But he knows what happened to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u168	He said "we were slaughtered by my son". That's what he said! That's what's interesting about the woman! This crime must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u169	If she listened to you now, they'd rub her bones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u170	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u171	This crime must not be forgotten. It is of little importance to my family, who lost hers, whether this was about ethnic cleansing or genocide. So what we must not forget in international fora is that crime has been committed, these people have been lost, our homelands have been lost. So for what is being done here today by various speakers - because some speakers have confessed that they do not know the difference - to remind you that Milosevic was sentenced to a court for ethnic cleansing. It's no less a crime than a crime. I'm gonna get out of this. But I wonder where you are defending the specula that has been done and what both Turks and these newspapers are trying. It's not whether it happened or not the crime. They question the crime itself rather than its form. That is the crucial issue. The other are scientific issues, which are a little of a concern to the citizens and of course a little interested in the people who have lost their homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u172	This "super" what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u173	So I'm actually going...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u174	Let me tell you, Minister, that's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u175	Please, Mr. Andriane.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u176	So, basically, the bill, we've heard little about it. I will dwell on what is my responsibility because I have heard most of those Members telling me that they are making a constructive opposition. Well, here we have a reality. Our government - and paradoxically those who accuse us of being one of the same, this is where they silence - in a record time changed, made a hundred and eighty degrees of waste management. We built a new national plan, while the old one was structured on the basis of the linear economy "produce, consume, fly." Mixed waste, millions of tonnes, would necessarily go to processing plants, 'Française', which the citizens are currently paying for around 25 euros to 50 euros, depending on the type of treatment. Therefore, instead of reducing this waste, we would also pay EUR 70 and 100 and 110 tons of citizens and with guaranteed quantities. So this reality that our Government has overthrown, I cannot understand why opposition parties are inverting it. I'm honestly telling you, I'm not a lawman when the summer told me that I was a n. It is not intended that the ECHR should be in the form of a CSR, or of a law, that I accepted it. Because that said the law of previous governments, Law 4042. So we have posted the national plan, but, beware, while the majority of local government, mayors and other self-government and regional authorities have embraced it, in practice few of what they say? Here too, we have to legislate today. Will you please exercise a constructive opposition here? What did they say? There is no new national plan, because it is not an OHIM, and since it is not an OHIM, we do not have to carry out it. So we come and legislate the first article. We have chosen the most political form: the act of a ministerial council. So, from tomorrow, if it is voted in favour - and I call on you to vote for it - the new national plan will be an act of cabinet and the PSF will have to be brought into line with it. Of course, the word 'harmonization' is relevant, because the previous law and here it was void. Who defines harmonisation? Who determines whether he's harmonized? If thirteen regions come and bring us a total budget of 2 billion, while the ESRB provides for 900 million, who will determine which one is harmonized or not? Most importantly - and this is something - in the new national plan we predict structures, which are even acceptable to safe projects by Europeans, structures which are decentralised and small, which give 16 000 new jobs and a further 2 billion jobs. It is natural that since these things are no longer waste and they are resources - plastic, glass, paper, compost - this cigarette leaves the big 'Françanian' factories. In other words, these infrastructures that are to be financed will obviously be deducted from the costs of building factories plus waste. And I ask, then, very simple. When we now have few, fortunately, self-government, who are insisting on harmonising themselves in the old national plan, because that is all they recognise, and want to continue the same 'Françanian' projects, who is the judge who will judge whether this regional plan, which will go through with a respected majority on the regional council, is or is not compatible? The answer is very simple: will the pope judge it or will the Archdiocese of Athens judge it or will the Prime Minister judge it or bring it to the House? We said something very simple. It is only with regard to formal legality and harmonisation that we should do a CSM act. There's an act. If you find another process that we can go to the Europeans, unlock heresy and say that our national plan, which is coming, is compatible with one, two, three, eight, nine, put it down and I listen to the whole ears. Because here we are waiting for the constructive opposition. So we say something very simple. We are changing - and this is the essence of the citizens - the new National Waste Management Plan. We're going to prevention, reuse, sorting at source. We're taking the money and the resources to the municipalities. This is a project. It's what it's doing now, all of Europe. Do you want it? Do you stand up to this thing? Do you support it or do you not support it? That is the essence of the debate. This is where I expect dialogue, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. Let's see here. Let's see the substance. What do we want, anyway? I'm ending with Article 32. I said it and admitted it. Let's get this straight. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4280 and R.P. CJ. 4315 are ‘forests’ laws. They were laws that do not exist a scientist who defends them, regardless of political position. These laws will change. It is clear that we had to close the room for crimes against the forest on the atrocities. That's what we do with Article 32. It is not, obviously - I understand it, I accept the criticism of the WWF - the ideal that we could do, but in any case we commit that the law will change its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u177	We will give the floor to some Members. Mr. Gregus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, there is a second role to be played by the debate on the bill. We could put ourselves on the articles - the rest of the Members of the Golden Dawn will do so tomorrow - but after all that is happening, we must address ourselves to the issue that is not, of course, current and not just Mr Friend's statements. Unfortunately, there are others. There is the one performing mayor's debt in Thessaloniki, the "Turkolagne" Boutaris, there was that graphic, unscrupulous and unspoiled Mr. Reposi and now Mr. Philis comes with these statements, which are outrageous. And I don't know if tomorrow Mr. Friends could go out to Constitution Square where at 16:00 the feds and the Pontius unions have gathered and spoken with them. Let me inform the Greeks who hear that the lawsuit was filed today by MPs Sahinides, Aivatidis and Hadjisavvas. They can visit the Golden Dawn website to see the contents of the denial against Mr. Friend and his statements, because of course no media has played them. We heard the Minister before - and I am very sorry - talking about 'lost homelands'. We have said this on several occasions, Minister, that there are no 'lost homelands'. For the Golden Dawn, they are savage homelands. Let me tell you something else. These statements by Mr. Friend and those who make such statements remind us of the positions and statements made by the Green Wolves in Turkey. I will make a brief reference to the articles. I really have a strong tone in the voice, because I and the Golden Dawn competitors are angry and we have expressed our wrath about everything that is going on. I should also like to say to the New Democracy that it is not entitled to speak because, as Mr Panayotaros said before and provided evidence, it has been expressed in a similar manner in other cases. I may refer to Articles 39 to 45. These are the articles of responsibility of the Ministry of Education, which are included in this draft law. It could be termed procedural, regular, I'd say. It's the result of the Balta Law. In the same spirit, the regulations on the possibility of a second chance for graduates of older years are also in progress. Generally, this legislative introduction of seven related articles of the Ministry of Education in this draft law shows some sloppyness, as it usually shows bills that you bring under the urgency procedure. It's a habit you inherited from New Democracy. Article 39 shall be extended to the certification of the educational competence of adult trainers so that the relevant structures and programmes of the General Secretariat for Lifelong Learning and New Generation can continue to operate until September 2017. Article 40 is a necessary amendment to clarify the way in which graduates from older years, who have been preparing for a different system of introduction to higher education, which is no longer in existence. Changed this with the Balta Law. It should be pointed out, however, that the rules of Article 40 are merely a semimeter in trying to deal with the adverse consequences and confusion caused by the continuous legislative changes to the system of introduction to higher education. The aim must be to maintain and maintain the system of introduction to higher education in a timely manner, which is obviously the current leadership of the Ministry cannot be achieved due to failure and incompetence. Article 41 introduces the inexpensive introduction to higher education of those who took part in student Olympics in Mathematics, Physics, Informatics, Chemistry, Biology and Sport, recognising the essence of excellence. That's what we agree on, of course. Article 42 shall apply to the term of office of the Boards of Directors. Here is a purely party placement. We are voting against this article. Article 43 refers to the administration of the departments of the Ministry of Education and in relation to Article 66 which replaces, the possibility to place primary and secondary education in the addresses and departments of the Directorate-General for Primary and secondary Education is added. However, since these teachers are already a category of IP, of university education, and therefore fall under Article (a), (b) and (c)(1), there is no specific reference to these addresses and sections. In Article 44, I refer only to articles concerning the Ministry of Education. This article extends the term of office of the school advisors – expired on 31-12-2015, in accordance with Article 28(3) – until August 2016. We are voting against this. Finally, Article 45 regulates the payment of the staff of the regional training directorates during the 2015 pan-Hellenic examinations – and the overtime pay of secondary education teachers, who worked overtime at the Center for Rehabilitation of the Psychiatric Hospital of Attica. This is a sum of EUR 165,000 and EUR 8 000 respectively. And this is moving in the positive direction. However, as the parliamentary representative and the special rapporteur on the Golden Dawn said, we will vote against the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u179	Mr Jellonis has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, national issues are not offered to sketchy and scientific approaches or deliberate party controversies. As many times as this was ignored in the past, but also in the newest history of Hellenism as well as in the modern we paid it dearly and irreparably. Today with so many open issues and in such a critical situation that our country finds itself in, I believe that Mr Philly's unfortunate position should be brought to an end here and that this dialogue should be stopped. I heard in place of previous speakers from the majority for responsible opposition, populism, and it really made me very impressed. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that the Greek people have a goldfish memory, that they do not remember who divided the Greek people into memorial and antimonetary, that they do not remember who told them that they would tear up memorials, by means of a law, they would abolish antimonetary laws, that they would restore wages, that they would restore pensions, that they would abolish HNVIA? Who created the "I don't pay" movement? Really, where are the indignant people? Recently we celebrated the national anniversary. Are they gone, are they all solved? Then why were they protesting? On the other hand, we have heard that "the Greek people", he says, "we have been given the mandate again because of the policies that we have led here". Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is finally avenged. The cycle of illusions must be closed once for you. The PASOK government in 2010 was forced to follow a path of responsibility then to stay the country up against populism and in the irresponsibility of yours and the division that you imposed on the Greek people for micro-party and political benefits. And today you come to tell us populists because we are making irresponsible opposition. But the Greek people have not paid one euro until the elections on 20 September. Because in tacticals you're very good. You didn't even send HISBIA to pay for knowing you wouldn't abolish him in this seven-month period. Now you sent it all together. Even to farmers, who have voted for the tax advance since summer, doubled from 27% to 55%, you have now sent the notes for twenty days. Now the Greek people will find out very well and you will see the results from here and beyond in the contacts you will have with him every day. Now in relation to this bill, ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill again where you are running to prevent the prerequisites, the OECD toolbox, and even a toolbox that you once called on demand for the disbursement of the dose and the evaluation. And you bring to Parliament a bill of nine co-legislative ministries to study by the MPs in a few hours' time in committees and vote in two days with fast track procedures in Parliament. What you complained about when you were opposition is now doing so that you have the advantage of the legislative process, of revealing your curiosity and the lack of political planning. This draft law clearly reflects the political will of the SYRIZA governance - ANEL to really be considered with the resistance of the citizens. His policy 'I promise, but I assure him, but I fully apply the opposite' has even angered those citizens who, until recently, have shown particular decency and great understanding of the government's inability to deal with the difficult issues that the criticality of the country's situation had proposed. Every day you are looking to find equivalents in education, gambling, meat. Truly, I would like to ask you: then you said that the equivalents mean an equivalent pain to the Greek people. Now these equivalents you're looking for which Greek people will hurt? Are they going to hurt the neighbors in the neighbouring states and not the Greek people all the equivalents you're looking for? Those who do not believe you, however, because your political artifacts are now experiencing them and start paying them, are farmers. They have already seen the first measures that came after the elections on 20 September, the pre-tax pools, the reduction in the pensions of EUR 330 for the first time to farmers, and on the other hand, in this bill, you are bringing the gradual reduction of excise duty on oil and you are increasing oil from EUR 66 to EUR 200 per thousand. Next, a follow-up which signals that you are disastrous in the agricultural sector. Otherwise, this tax-sprinkler, the tax-spring storm that you bring to the detriment of the rural order, is not explained otherwise. I have said on many occasions that it is below the dead end all that you have in mind, which you have left to pour out that you will bring to the detriment of one sector of the economy, which we all want to say here that together with the rural economy is the other pillar of the economy to support the country and go ahead. Why? Because it has a social, economic, development, a national dimension, because it can produce wealth in one year and give jobs and jobs both in the secondary and tertiary sectors and in the tertiary sectors, and you are driving him down the dead end. In other words, it will no longer be useful for the Greek farmer to produce, in order to be able to stay in the region, so that social cohesion does not break down. We, as the Democratic Alliance of PASOK - DIMAR, have tabled an amendment on what is envisaged here for the increase in agricultural oil. Finally, we should institutionalize agricultural oil. We don't now discover America or the wheel. To do this also applies in Italy and France, the farm credit for agricultural oil, by electronic registering, through the OSCE, through the crop, per crop, depending on how the machinery is used to date for the cultivation or irrigation of the fields, to end this issue if we want to have an agriculture competitive if we want to have agricultural production, if we want to have food adequacy for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u181	Why didn't you do it so long?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u182	Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, will be intervened, and we will continue with MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, there is a sequence of events in today's reality that cannot be ignored. Assessment, recapitalisation of banks, debt regulation. Some have forgotten here that if this debt is not regulated, if we in the first or second way do not get rid of more than 100 billion, the truth is bitter, we have no prospect. I would like to remind you that after the Second World War Germany's debt was settled by means of a growth clause. She was given 50% and the remaining 50% paid for it when she had growth. I want to believe that something similar will apply to us as well. We're living in a possessed, hard times. I don't think anyone can ignore her and anyone who says things are easy, obviously lives somewhere else. He can't question that. They are absolutely right to protest against citizens and pensioners. And a euro to cut off on pensioners, they are right to complain. At the moment the government is specific and complaining to this government and doing well. The insurance we are not discussing today, I believe, is a potential hydrogen bomb. The first residence I want to believe will end positively on Monday, like the equivalents - I risk and say that it will end positively, but we will see it - will be the starting point for a positive assessment. The recapitalisation of the banks has gone well, and we all know it. Much more we have calculated is less. We'll see where the ball is sitting at the end of it. And again, I say, this particular government is not responsible for its creation - not to say the old - if it does not leave the neck of the country, this debate here makes no sense. I am saying all this, ladies and gentlemen, because we have been given a glorious opportunity. You've been late all these years for tax evasion, it's been corruption and strife, and it's also the beastly all-powerfulness of the media. There some parties were tested and the day cleared from the wheat. This is an indiscriminate right for the New Democracy, the River and the Democratic Partnership to make their choice. It was a unique opportunity, however, to get rid of one of the four bracelets of this reality. We should agree on the media. We saw that it didn't happen, and I'm surprised because I see outdated hypocrisy and aggressive behavior by people who should be more careful. I would also like to remind you that these days the 'SIEMENS' trial is taking place shortly after that. I want to remind you that for the first time a powerful canalarch who owed around 198 million is coming to the prosecutor. I would also like to remind you that thirty-five people are referred to for what was happening at the Post Bank. I do not want to go too far and remind you of how many amendments have been taken by night to favour specific interests. And I was struck by the objection that I saw from too many people, which, for the first time, made a little decision on the most degraded areas of the country - Keracini and Drapetsona - and I saw that they were treated a little negatively. Why? Colleagues, I believe that this legislation could have a lot better today. One doubts that we should be done by Monday, because the evaluation is at the door of what we said. Yeah, and I agree we've had the comfort of talking ten days. And mistakes were made. It is, however, in a positive direction to this draft law. But as far as we in the Independent Greeks are concerned, I would like to remind you of five things. Firstly, that we are not the only country - such as the analysis made by Greek analysts and I am referring to Article 52 - for the stepping-up tax is another five, six. I would like to remind you that the assessment was made when the FIX was later sold to the CARLSBERG. I would also like to remind you that 3.5 million only pays for Greek companies, small breweries, that is to say, the spasm some, and a few more. And I still say that it was based on an article that is not necessarily prerequisite. It only refers to important articles and not to everything. We were not in a opposition mood - I honestly tell you - on Article 52, but I am also clear about the attitude of the Independent Greeks. It is a tangible proof of this, that democracy so works, is not directed. Wherever we think a correction can be made, it can be done. We didn't tell anyone anything. I would also like to say this and I cannot resist a temptation because I have heard a great deal of talk and very aggressive behaviour. I've turned almost all the monasteries in the country, because my mother was a goddess, the late woman. I just happened to hang out with Pontius since I was a kid. What has been written is less than what we know. I have first-hand knowledge. I believe that, in fact, the moment the House has taken a stand, in fact, was a misfortune of the friend and respected to me, Minister of Education, Nikos Friend. However, political career with exaggerated nationalism, no, I refuse to build. And I'm saying, "We're all inexperienced." And we've made mistakes myself and - I think - you too. To listen to "eat him, kill him, drop him down", forgive me, but it reminds me of other times. That's my place. It's personal and it's not the Independent Greeks. Finally, it is clear that we are voting in favour of this bill both at the outset and on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr. Danellis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the bill we are debating today is representative of a roughness and haste that characterizes your legislative work. What exactly do we have to vote on? How much does the title of the bill respond to its content? What is the relevance of the provisions we have to legislate? What exactly are you asking us, for example, to vote in the first article? We should once again vote on something that we had just voted on. The main body of the bill is energy efficiency, finally in line with the European directive. At the same time, we pass various unreasonable provisions concerning the Faculty of Blind, the Concert Hall of Music, again as it used to be in a fragmentary way and thus ineffective. You bring provisions for the management of waste, for the registration of sports universities, for the Consumers' Counsel, for the resurrected areas, for the tourist ports and for many other unrelated topics. Let it be shaped in the common belief that the entire bill is about prerequisites, while, with prerequisites, you also close various loose ends. You are thus giving the feeling that there is really no serious design and elementary hierarchy in government work. You are creating a climate of panic that does not help the country's unstable and afflicted economic environment and, of course, you must understand, as we all understand in this Chamber, our duty to finally upgrade Parliament's function. I will stand selectively very soon on some of the provisions of the bill. In Article 42 - for which Potami has already tabled an amendment, and we hope that you will accept it - it is truly surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that this obsession with the full partisanness of education. Your reform agenda, Mr Ministers, is, unfortunately, summarized in education, in the normalisation of your party friends so far. Is that what you consider progressive? Is that what the Left has been asking for for for so many years? It is clear that the appointment of the regional councils of primary and secondary education by the direct government- appointed regional director cannot guarantee any assurance of objectivity. We want to ensure that a minimum of objectivity is achieved in the way PPPs and PPPs are staffed and that is why I propose that you draw as a tool for the selection of its members, a draw that will be made publicly between the twenty who on the date of establishment have the greatest real administrative experience. We recommend that you dare a more remarkable and incomprehensible staffing of the administrative bodies. This is also dictated by the agreement of August and by the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 4336/2015 on the dismantling of the Greek administration. Don't you dare! With Article 51, you bring the deduction to agricultural oil. This is the first of a number of tax measures, which come to hit a class that strives to survive in a particularly unfavourable tax environment. The tax raid and the anticipated raid, you know very well that they will directly affect the agricultural sector and will lead, or risk driving, farmers to extinction. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear no longer that no one has any obligation to contribute to tax revenue. As long as it is taxed fairly and according to its capacity to tax it at all times. The agricultural sector is really in despair. On the one hand, it fails to bear this unbearable burden and on the other hand, the state does not provide it with the conditions for income production. It is characteristic that after the entry into force of the Common Agricultural Policy, alone Greece in twenty-eight, has not come to an end who is active farmers, namely those who are genuine beneficiaries of the CAP's prerogatives and should have a different tax treatment. We have not yet passed through the unjust historical model in the regional model for the allocation of direct payments. We have not led farmers to strong producer groups, which are key to their sustainable development, and we have not exalted the cooperative landscape. And within this blurred and problematic context you are bringing the removal of a discount on agricultural oil. With regard to Article 52, you may have withdrawn it, since the account does not come to you with the refusal of ANELs to vote on it. However, political perception and the choice to insist on and propose taxation for a small potential and productive sector, thereby supporting a very small cartel-based oligopoly, by controlling 90% of the market, without even having a substantial budgetary effect - we are talking about 3 million euros a year - is a major problem. The de-escalation of the alcohol tax into small brewery is a European acquis. It is an essential tool in a new industry and, as I said just before, dynamic and qualitative, to stand by finding a very small market share throughout Europe, between colosses of the increasingly weak oligopoly of brewery. After all, the OECD toolbox, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is a development tool. The toolbox does not oblige you to interfere with the taxation of small brewers. And after all, since you can't negotiate the big, these little development issues you can very well negotiate them. Ladies and gentlemen, the visionary goal of decades and a promise of time for many years to the many peoples of Drapetsonas and Keratini was the famous "reflection of the Coastal Front". But, in order not to mock them again, tell us how you intend to deal with the property regime, since a significant part of this area belongs to the National Bank, to the French "LAFARGE" and to private investors. It is not only enough to ensure this extent, but, of course, how we can secure the resources in self-government, to lead to this development. We will, of course, say 'yes' in this article. But make sure you disprove those who really think it's still a demagogic, voter's promise. Finally, I shall refer to the press. Because I am unable to believe, is it true, Mr Ministers, what is being written now, in the last few hours that on the left government, we are returning to the ghost of celebrating the religion, not this time in the people's identities but in the uniforms of the Security Councils? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u186	Mr. Katameros has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a reference to the bill, as I must, but I will not avoid a more general reference, since, as we have seen in the debate in the committees and today, I can say that more time is devoted to more general references and to more general political issues of topicality and less to the bill. I would therefore like to comment on Article 30, Mr Ministers, on geothermality. You are doing well - we all agree - and you say that an extension should be granted to the company, which has undertaken research and development of geothermality in our country, because thirty years now - as foreseen - has done nothing. We are therefore giving another five years. But if you're just staying on this, Mr. Ministers, we're not doing anything, because it's no coincidence that over the past thirty years nothing has happened. It is not just the reasons mentioned in the explanatory statement. It has been wrong, in my opinion, for the whole programme - at least as far as I know - and it is not going to be completed if it remains as it is. I have the example of Nisyros. It's not going to be geothermal in Nisserro. First of all, we will not allow it. There can be no geothermality inside the volcano crater, which is the biggest sight of the island. So if we were to find oil in the Ancient Market, we'd be going to make an oil extraction facility? Take it into consideration. You need to see them from the beginning if we want to have geothermality in our country and if we want to make use of it. If you leave it like this, with a simple extension, nothing will happen. Colleagues and colleagues, with this bill, we are voting for prerequisites, as with the previous one. These are fragmentary. They have said so, too, and many colleagues have said so. Neither are we dealing with the insurance problem as a whole, nor are we dealing with the tax problem, for which the government is committed to coming to a final conclusion in subsequent bills. They're prerequisites. We voted for them this summer. We are forced to implement them and we are now moving on to implementing laws. The interventions we can make are very few, to play with a number of things, for example for beer, which is provided for in the OECD toolbox, for those who say that we have not voted on anything like this. Unfortunately, we had to vote on them. But, because of this situation, we see an opposition which is awkward. Of course, what's that supposed to mean? Since she voted for all of this and it's in her ideology. We've been through this many times. That is why we, honourable Members and Ministers, must not stay in dialogue with this opposition - and I am referring to Qualification - because we are neither going to convince them nor have anything to take. Don't expect a constructive dialogue. We must discuss with society and the people who are at the moment suffocating, suffering and not scare us - and do not scare us - the mobilisation. On the contrary, mobilisations and all movements strengthen our struggle and our negotiating position. So we in this world must first explain every day that we have to go through this canvas. We'll all be patient to get past him. Because if we don't get to him, if we don't get to an assessment, if we don't go to the recapitalisation, we won't talk about the debt, we won't talk about the development programme and we'll go back not only, but also get back. And people, you know, Ministers, even though they are suffering, can understand it and be patient. In order to understand it, however, in order to be patient and withstand, we must convince him every day and not just what we have done so far, which we have also talked about in the elections. We talked about it in the election, people showed confidence, and that is why they gave us the rule again. And I am referring to all the things we have said, which relieve the weakest, of the cards, of the insurance to everyone, from the roof, from the current, the stoppage of the auctions - even so far - the abolition of personal retention, the protection of pensions up to now and by the ESA, etc. But that's not enough. The elections were held, people trusted us and they waited. It won't wait long. What kind of perspective is there? I spoke before the recapitalisation, restructuring, development programme, etc. However, we are following an effort by the partners, by the lenders, to undermine this whole process, because they did not like us getting this agreement and standing up in the summer. They are trying through processes or "details" to undermine this whole process. That's why we have to be careful! Example: We are aware of the efforts they have made to abolish all the legislative work that has been done in our previous government and the humanitarian crisis and much more for the hundreds of doses. They did not pass through and try to do so, to cancel this whole hundred-dosing procedure. And we must, Ministers, be careful not to do so because we are in a very difficult situation. We know very well that because of the difficulties we have had in the whole process, a lot of people, many households are out of order. It would be very interesting if you could give us information. The assessment I have at least is that at the moment it can be over 50% of those who have regulated their debts outside the regulation. It's the last month of those they paid. And the contributions were accumulated. That is why you will see that revenue in November and much less in December will be much less. If we do not do something about it, which may seem small in many, we risk the 100-dose schedule being blown into the air. We need to take initiatives. It is no coincidence that I mentioned, for example, what we are doing in the face of creditors' pressures. Against these pressures, we must resist. And it is not enough to vote every time and to express our support to the government. We will strengthen the Prime Minister and the negotiating team, the entire Ministerial Council, in their efforts if they can make use of the term "These are not passed through the House". Some things we have to give them to understand that they don't go through the House. One of these is a hundred doses. They've got to figure it out! In the next few years, that is, we can vote on a whole series of other things - and people can handle them - whatever you want and what you want in this bill and others that will still come in the next period. We cannot say 'no' at all, because we are committed to implementing them. But three, four things must be negotiating weapons in the hands of our Prime Minister and Government, such as red loans, such as insurance. Among these should be the hundred doses, because we'll blow up in the air. Let's show that we don't vote inconspicuously. Let our Prime Minister be able to say, "This does not go through the House." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u188	Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill is taking place in the shadow of the provocative statements made by the negligent Genocide of the Pontian Minister of Education. These statements are undoubtedly insulting the hundreds of thousands of victims of the Turkish atrocity, aimed at the disappearance of the Christian populations of Asia Minor. Mr. Friend who has envied Mrs. Reposi's glory cannot be placed in the Greek Government. And since the government has been editing some excuses about different scientific approaches, which we have heard just now from Mr Skourletis, it will be good for Parliament to finally publish the monumental volume for Professor Costas Fotiadis' Genocide in order to read the documentaries from their grandparents about the massacres and persecutions, as we have refugee origin. And because - I believe in good faith - the Minister, Mr. Tsironis, said that the massacre does not matter if it is called 'genocide' or 'national cleansing', I would remind you of the resolution by the International Union of Genocide Studies which says that the national cleansing of the Greek populations of the Ottoman Empire by the new Turks and Cemalis belongs to the legal category of genocide, as defined by the UN in 1948. Mr President, in the bill, I can only comment on the way the government legislates. We all remember that, as an opposition, SYRIZA colleagues broke their clothes when bills came as urgent or urgent. What do we see about the days of the 'first and second times the Left'? Almost all bills come as urgent or urgent, always on the grounds of exceptional circumstances. Really, did the emergency conditions come up? As a general rule, the bills also appear to be 'blue', with inappropriate provisions - patches and amendments. And this rule does not escape the draft law under discussion. And under the pretext of the urgent transposition of a Community directive, you bring to Parliament painful tax measures. How was harmonization urgently achieved with Community law? Didn't you let the energy directive incorporate for months, and it was already ready by the previous government that you overthrowed? The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that the law we are called upon to vote on affects key productive sectors, one of those left standing by the economic crisis. After you misled the Greek people with stories of Halima, you go and unleash what's left standing. Today you are giving a first blow to the agricultural world, which unfortunately in a large part believed in you and gave you the first place to the September elections, when you promised you were ready to be ready. Once again you lied! You had nothing. You didn't find anything. Your goal, as it turns out, was to stay in power. Now, then, the attack on farmers is beginning by abolishing the refund of the excise duty on oil, which will be completed next year. And there is a long follow-up, with the great increase in taxation and tax advances, with the tripling of insurance contributions to the OGA, with the taxation of subsidies, with the abolition of any tax exemptions, with, with, etc... And don't invoke New Democracy's vote in the deal, Mr. Skourleti. A bad deal is a work of your hands. The New Democracy voted on the country's residence in the European Union. In the elections you have intercepted the vote of the citizens and especially of the farmers, by feeding them on an equal footing. And because the fairy tale of the equivalents has come to an end, you have decided to fight back and you are spreading that farmers are not paying taxes and investing in social automation, a project that we have seen before. Kolonaki across the district. Today, however, we see the premiere of "When the masks fall". In addition, it is such that your pain for the healthy development of the economy, which you brought to committee in the "bubble" bill, has been destroying the small Greek brewery industry. You, the guinea pigeons, who smuggled your political opponents as worshipers, now follow with religious reverence the instructions, the OECD toolbox. You did the same with the life span of fresh milk. You who have shed crocodile tears in the past, are fully in line with the OECD's orders to make it easier for imports of milk from Central and Northern Europe to be taken unequivocally, no matter whether this decision will give Greek cow farmers a charismatic blow. Finally, Mr President, I would like to call on the Government to show self-evident understanding and sensitivity to the request of the Hellenic Association of Polytectures about the relocations of their children to the HEIs and TEIs. While in China they are lifting the ban on the birth of a second child to prevent the effects of ageing, here, which we are already living with, it is inconceivable that we should not introduce support measures for polytenes, which do not even have financial costs. I shall put forward the relevant memorandum on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the catastrophe that the government has taken is without turn. Unfortunately, your inadequacies, your populism, your irresponsibility, the Greek society pays dearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u190	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u191	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes. And speak, anyway, sooner or later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u192	For the first time I have been a Member of Parliament for many years, Mr President, because there has been a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure, not your presidency, but before, which, however, continues. We should therefore either amend the Rules of Procedure if we do not want to respect it or observe it. It says, therefore, in Rule 64(2) that, in the discussions of the bills and draft laws, the reason is first given to the relevant ministers, if they so request, the rapporteurs and the special speakers and six Members are being promoted in order of registration, etc. During the six Members of Parliament, the ministers may speak only for four minutes of the hour and the Members of Parliament for two. This was not observed by the second speaker, and then the Minister was given the floor. It is not the subject of Mr Dritsa now, because we have eaten the tail so long. However, I would like it to be noted to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or the Bureau. Either the Rules of Procedure are respected or we can all change them together. Bring in a suggestion to change him. But until you bring the recommendation, I would ask you, Mr President, to respect it because it is unacceptable. This also concerns Members of Parliament. Members also spoke on the occasion of the Minister's position, and they should speak after the six Members. This is how the House of Members, the representatives of the citizens, is transformed into a parliament of officials, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u193	I agree with your conclusion, but you also have to recognise that there is an attempt to make the House of Members. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. To continue with Mr Kegeroglu's Rules of Procedure, I would like to say that after seven speakers we are taking the floor. But you must be careful why your party violated him. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, at a rapid pace, we continue our legislative work by combining the prerequisites of the agreement together with measures at the same time development, socially just and beneficially, but also democratically. Already within a month we have completed many of the prerequisites, the law on the licensing of television frequencies and channels, and the law on recapitalisation that strengthens the real economy. Today we are discussing energy, its use, its savings, and the strengthening of the construction, processing and management of waste and many other issues that are crucial to the Greek society. It is obvious that we have taken the responsibility of putting Greece on the move, lifting Greece on its feet. We serve that responsibility. We serve her and we are consistent. We weren't afraid of responsibility. It seems, however, that taking responsibility is extremely disturbing for opposition. Obviously, it disturbs you to have been ratified and the country's international position strengthened. It is disturbing that the reference to Greece is growing. It is important now that the Greek word in Europe is spoken of. The statements made by the European officials are annoyed. The changes in Europe, as well as the denial of your own policy, seem to be annoying. We, ladies and gentlemen, are serving the European solution. We keep Greece at the heart of the Eurozone. We are impressed by your menenism against the government, but also against our country. We knew in spring that you did everything for the 'left parenthesis'. You have asked the European People's Party to cut our funding. The former Prime Minister himself along with Mr. Rahoi were trying to cut the deal. But even now, after so many months, do you insist that Greece's path to progress be stopped? Ladies and gentlemen, I will submit to the Minutes the interview of the former Prime Minister in the Spanish newspaper 'LA RAZON'. So what did Mr Samaras say about Europe? I will read exactly what he said, because it gives us a special impression how a former Prime Minister can turn against the country. So, referring to Europe, it says: 'Europe must support governments' - meaning its own - 'with budgetary and reformal achievements. When giving the impression that it facilitates populists and pulls the carpet under the feet of reformist governments, it may send the wrong messages." Is that what you're supporting the national case? Is that how you support the country? So you support the financial aid contract that Mr Samaras himself voted for in the Greek Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u195	You're populists.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u196	But that, Mr Brutsi, is really hypocrisy and courage, as you have previously invoked us. In addition to hypocrisy, you are also characterized by the inability to read, but also by very little memory. So let's make this clear: does today's bill prerequisites? Of course it does. It has prerequisites that you voted in August. Is it not a prerequisite to strengthen the General Secretariat of Public Revenues with five hundred additional employees from the ILO? Is it not a prerequisite for the transfer of IORP cases to the General Secretariat of Public Revenues? Isn't the issue of the agricultural oil tax prerequisite? They don't remember. They don't remember voting on it. In fact, some are falsifying dates. So let's remind them: To n. 4336, in FEK 94 A on 14-08-2015, in paragraph D.5 it is stated specifically that the provisions of paragraph 1 concerning the increase in the oil tax apply from 1-10-2015, which is precisely the current bill, which you refuse to vote on. For the Minutes, then, I shall table the law passed by both the New Democracy and the PASOK and Potami - though they refuse to vote, let them deny that it is a prerequisite - on the same date as today's bill. That's hypocrisy! That's disgusting! Of course, they are not just concerned with undermining the Greek political function and economic function, but also with creating problems in the international position of the country, in its foreign policy, criticising the institutions for having agreed with our country. Honestly, it makes me wonder: Do you dare talk about a foreign policy problem from the Minister of Education's statements? We were also placed in the morning on these statements. But remember who is responsible for that calamity. What political parties are responsible for that calamity and the Asia Minor Destruction? Which political spaces behaved...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u197	Mercy! Is it the Minor Destroy for New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u198	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u199	Who didn't protect them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u200	Are we to blame for the Genocide?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u201	Mercy! Are we to blame for the Asia Minor Destruction?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u202	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u203	Remember, please very much, what the Left did when the refugees came to Greece, what the labour movement did. Remember how the Pontius and the Pontius were connected to the labour movement, to the left and to the struggles. We're not giving you that story. We do not give you the link between the labour movement and our brothers, because we have guaranteed it in society! Today there have been too many lies. It was a lie that the Minister of Education didn't come to the debate. The Minister of Education was in the committee, he heard the positions concerning his own pieces and was placed. So you lied to the Greek Parliament. But hypocrisy and lying are the debate that is taking place on the heating allowance. Wasn't the New Democracy and the PASOK the ones who drafted the budget to which the heating allowance was cut by 50%? And today they try to play it that they knew nothing and shed crocodile tears when they set the amount for the heating allowance. But why are you losing the land under your feet? Why are you worried? Why do one of the corruption files open? Why are all the programs starting to go to the prosecutor? Is it because bankers were called for the media loans or why is the judiciary even being called for investigation? Did we also decide to continue the humanitarian crisis programme? Is it because institutions are being implemented - have we announced this since yesterday - so that there is access to the public health system and to all welfare benefits? That means social justice, ladies and gentlemen. This will apply to Greece by this government that first of all looks at the people's interests. We will continue this policy and we will succeed. However, we think it is worth mentioning the bill which we have today for debate in plenary. The bill obviously relates to a very important part of our concern, to the issue of the country's energy balance and to the implementation of a directive which the previous government has delayed too much to apply at a cost, if you like, and a financial penalty. But why do we care? We are interested in why we have a society that is energy-intensive and energy-dependent from abroad. And because we have a society and an economy that has a very large energy cost, it has very large energy losses and it has derelict public infrastructure. Why is this all happening in Greece? Is that why this is the model of growth that you have followed over the last few years that you have not been interested in the essence of production, the operation of the economy and employment, but have you only been interested in sea-loving and predators? That was a political choice. These questions, of course, do not only concern Greece, because we know very well that the political system in Greece has kept, subjugated - if you like - and subjected much lower to production, operation and development of the country. These questions also concern the societies of Europe. Europe is taking some measures which we are now coming to discuss. And Europe has to solve important issues of sustainability. In Europe too, industrial development has consumed resources beyond the limits of sustainability. It needs to return very quickly a debate on sustainability and innovation in Europe too, because otherwise the objective of combating and dealing with the greenhouse effect will seem a distant dream. The quality of life of peoples, health expectancy and the possibility - if you like - of competition, thus maintaining employment and strengthening it, will remain a very distant dream. That is why we need immediate measures in this area. The aim, therefore, of reducing energy consumption, increasing the use of renewable energy, but also the functioning of the state as a model, is an objective that interferes with the economy, changes its function. It is a goal that we need to integrate within the framework of productive reconstruction. Significant administrative changes, but also innovations result from the energy debate. What, though, is the different feature of this debate? It is that they create domestic added value. They give rise to the possibility of producing a new gross product, with reference to our country, a product which lives in our country and which does not 'catch it' - if you like - the multinationals in their own countries. It gives the opportunity to combine it with the Greek scientific potential, i.e. with an employment that will keep the Greek minds in Greece and create new jobs and multiplier effects in society. This is a question of keeping young scientists here, but creating domestic added value. For all this, of course, matters need a different state, a different social agreement, otherwise they cannot be made a reality. For the last fifteen years in Greece the only deal was "sale what you can sell", "sale everything and get rid of the new and worthy Greeks abroad", "give the best contracts to the multinationals of your friends". In the face of this irrational dismantling of the economy and the market, we must now put forward a proposal for a state that is also a model for energy, for a state that has good building infrastructure that will save energy, for a state that will make green environmental contracts, but also for a state that is effective in its conversation and in its cooperation with the producer and the citizen. Because what has been happening so far was an anarchist state, a state of rushphetology, a large and wasteful state, which has done nothing but fuel the political power and the fellows of the same table and has not fuelled the private economy. You want a proof why this was happening? Do you want me to tell you what we found in the management of the development law with the government taking over from SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and the Green Ecoologists? Why was the crocodile tears? So I'll tell you very specifically. Twenty-nine months it takes to control a Greek investment in order to give employment and national product. Six thousand three hundred investments were frozen because they weren't going to check on them. They expected 5.6 billion euros to be invested, because you had frozen the entire private investment system. Against all of this, Mr Hatzidakis ordered the second toolbox of the OECD. This toolbox carries in particular - and it is deliverable - the issue of the reduction - of tax relief on Greek breweries, which have been applied since 2005 in the Competition Committee. Obviously Mr Skrekas, Mr Hadjidakis and many other ministers have not solved the problem in the Competition Committee so as to clarify what the brewers have tabled to the committee, namely the cartel that is bleeding and misusing the market position. Is this the support for the economy and employment? Is that what you're interested in? It was all a lie! Clearly it's a lie. However, we, ladies and gentlemen, must proceed with very important changes and differences. The correlations and production ratio of GDP are what we are concerned with first and foremost, and we can see it in this bill too. It is very important that energy interventions, technological interventions and innovation modify the factors of the primary and secondary sectors in the economy. It is not possible for our country to rely on only 18% on agricultural production, industry, manufacturing and the craft industry and to have 82% of the services. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With the introduction of new technologies and the energy sector, by introducing innovation and construction, by regulating and controlling energy performance, we have the possibility of supplying the Greek manufacturing industry and giving it export status, because we have a privileged position on the international market in construction, innovation and knowledge. So we can feed and finance actions that will strengthen both energy and the economy. And one final comment on financing these actions. I am very impressed by Mr Maniotis' multiple comment on "Security". I should like to inform him - because he probably does not know how to read - about this: in the new ERASR 'Security' about private investment and housing, he has the same budget as the previous one. The measure is repeated and it is even forward-looking. But he didn't read anything yet. There is also "Security" action in the new NSRP for public infrastructure. It is therefore necessary to strengthen intervention both in the energy sector and in the technological field.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u204	Put a perfect one, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u205	It strengthens Greek production and economy. That is the proposal put forward by the SYRIZA Government, that is the proposal that can get us out of the crisis. This proposal will be served. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u206	The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u207	You have forgotten the rule, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u208	Mr President, please give me a minute to table an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u209	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u210	First of all, I would like to put forward a legislative improvement, which is expressive. in paragraph 5 of Article 12, the words ‘Article 10’ shall be replaced by the words ‘Article 11’;
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u211	A parliamentary amendment is also tabled on the continuing operation of structures to support women victims of violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u212	What is the subject of the amendment, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u213	I repeat that it is about continuing to operate structures to support women victims of violence. It is presented by Mrs Catrivanou, Mrs Vakis, Mrs Kafantaris and Mrs Stavrou. This is the amendment with a general figure of 28 and a special figure of 14.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u214	Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as time goes by you get worse. You have gathered some provisions in luck, tied them up in a volume and called them 'project' to us. We have prerequisites, we have corrections of mistakes by mistake, we also have our ruffles. We have provisions of the Ministry of Education, the Environment, Labour, Economics, Culture, Shipping, Justice. Undo the provisions you have just voted, give inappropriate extensions, except, you are exempted. Oh, and you're kidding! Because that is what you have done, ladies and gentlemen of the House, with Article 28 on the regeneration of Keratini and Drapetson. You are mocking the residents of one of the most degraded areas of Attica. Because you know that putting in 'non-project' - because 'non-project' is what you are presenting - and the properties of the LAG and of the National and others, you guarantee that they will go up to the final appeal to long-term judicial disputes. They will be blocked for decades, they will win the compensation, they will leave debris. In fact, you're leaving debris! But hold on to two things. First, that there is already a planned plan by both companies and more for mixed industrial use and with parks, which would bring about significant upgrades. You don't take this plan as a basis for making something better yours, because you don't care. Secondly, we will not agree to vote on French amendments. It has already been written that the boss of the 'GATT', the French 'LAFARGE', whose investment you suddenly degrade, has been presented to Mr Holland to press you. We - and I say again - do not now vote in any subsequent bills, as has been done with the amendment on beef from the French Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mr Dezir, to get back 23%, as they say today, but as we see from the official agenda for the talks and you voted against it with n. Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 4336/2015/EU and repealing Decision No 4336/2015/EU and repealing Decision No 4336/2015/EU and Decision No 4336/2015/EU (OJ L 343, 12.12.2014, p. Note the dates: we vote 23% on the calf on 15 July, Mr Dezir's visit is on 23 July, you vote 23% and you put 23% on private education on 14 August. Or the arrangement you're preparing, as the services tell me, to decribe the occupations in the schools and the troika cut you off. It would be an outright provision that shows your respect for the property of the Greek people and the legitimacy of the Greek people, but that you did not take it out on your own. They pulled you out, because that's how you negotiate, proudly, standing. All we have to do is accept them outside. So you are fooling the inhabitants of Drapetsonas and Keratinios, the last in the long series, because so far you have fooled all the rest of Greece, such as Chania for their airport. I will open a parable and say that you have done Mr Stathakis' favor with today's Act of Ministerial Council so that his abbreviations do not sign and let him go back to the island. But the Cretans don't eat spoon. And I'm closing the parentheses. You have ridiculed the drug-industrials who supported you, the hopeful farmers, the surprised little brewers, the landlords who were sighing, the retired people who endured, the young people who did not see light. Youths still don't see light with you, because your policy eradicates light every day, hope and smile of all, but especially of all youths. Ladies and gentlemen, you have found the time to "fly" within the provisions of the provisions of the extension of the administration of the Grand Music, the cessation of hospital administrations. Are we really going to see a rule in all this? Expansions from here, pauses from there, depending on whether the commands do you. But you did not find the time to take back the shameful provision that your ministers who are not parliamentarians are paid for their expenses of subsistence, Article 25 of the Treaty. Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 4336/2015/EU and repealing Decision No 4336/2015/EU and repealing Decision No 4336/2015/EU and Decision No 4336/2015/EU (OJ L 343, 12.12.2014, p. A retrospective layout that you've been through with your memorandum. A provision that embarrasss the Greek Parliament in general, but you in particular. At the same time that we voted painful measures for Greek citizens, at the same time as you told us we were being crippled about Members' privileges, at the same time you were spending your ministers. And you can't find the time now to get it, even now, back. You will, even now, bring an amendment to the ban and we will support it. What's got to be done? Should Moscovisi put it on Monday's prerequisites? Take care of the Greek who struggles with the crisis, even now. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, what is your historic role? What were you called to do? Why did you ask to rule the country again and again? I'll tell you why. To pass as a roller over all the rights of the guilds you have raised for years. I don't know if this is a genocide or ethnic cleansing. I'll laugh at you. Ask the UN, some Parliament and Mr. Friend. I only know that the more incompetent you are in the governance of the country - and here you have broken every inability record - you are so capable of passing the anti-grass measures - which Mrs Manolakou would say - without opening a nose. Ladies and gentlemen, you have achieved that in your role. I am absolutely convinced that you will not shed a single tear on the rights that, correctly or wrongly, you are being smashed. But be careful because you've already failed. You failed to draw up a plan for the country, you failed to solve one problem at least, you failed to get the country out of the crisis. Because there's no country that came out of the crisis divided. And you're a division force. This may have made you government, it may have taken you from 4% and taken you to 35%, but it doesn't allow you to leave a historical stigma. Ladies and gentlemen, the left has been the wrongful story of our country. As a result, you have usurped the right to define what is right and what is not. Even those on the right wings who sit on the right wings actually accept the left wing conditions for what is fair and what is unfair. Sadly, as time passed and decades have equalised the concept of justice to a single criterion: Does change from income or add? If she gets removed, she's unfair, if she adds, she's fair. This is the Greek social contract. So you identified the law in interest and did irreparable damage in the country. Because in only one country of interest, and nothing else there is room for cooperation, there is only a conflict. And so you made false enemies to support battle, foreigners and Greeks, old and young, corrupt and honest, right-wing and left-wing, accepted and negotiators, donors and patriots. You're dividers, that's why you already failed. Because our country needs composition, consensus and action. Without them, there's no memorial coming out. None! Without it, we're not getting out of any crisis. And now that night you've lost strangers from enemies, now that you've become friends with Merkel and Holland, only Greeks have left to fight. One is the fight it deserves today. The fight to reinstate justice. We want to give this fight and we will give it every day. We all have to understand that it's a meaningless struggle. For example, for you it is fair that farmers' subsidies, the same for New Democracy and PASOK, should be taxed, perhaps for the other parties. And I'm asking you, why? Why is the farmer who sweats his field and makes 20,000 euros a year taxed more than the farmer who sweats his field itself, making 10,000 euros a year and giving him a 10,000 euros a subsidy? He's right to take her to his place and make progress. But look at them two in the eyes and tell them why you're treating them differently. You stole justice and baptized social automation. You are again bringing in a fragmentary provision to increase the tax on agricultural oil. Where is your logic, justice, integration, planning in your efforts? Let us see, for example, what we are proposing for farmers. Firstly, protection directly with a tax-free limit on very small incomes and especially in mountainous disadvantaged areas, regardless of whether these are from subsidies or from production. Secondly, maintaining 13% for incomes presumed by the clearance of recognised producer organisations. An effective and fair measure, since these incomes are fully controlled, but also a development measure, since it strengthens organised production. Thirdly, strengthening the countryside with thousands of young scientists, geologists, economists, engineers, who will maneuver modern, powerful and extroverted producer organisations, with no cost to the public funds, making good use of the existing Community regulations and measures under the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. Modern and powerful producer organisations are the key to the development of the agri-food sector. It must, however, be characterised by a focus on a particular product group to control each member, a strong scientific management, controlled by democratically elected administration, compulsory management of all or 90% of the production of their members and the addition of goodwill to their product, minimum size ensuring their ability to meet the requirements of the times, not the current unacceptable recognition criteria, participation in partnerships and interbranch organisations, but on the essential condition that the main activity remains in the primary organisation, a stable relationship of cooperation with the universities and research bodies. Fourthly, a review as soon as possible of how direct payments are allocated to those producing and targeting quality and environmental protection. You can see, then, that the struggle for the organization, for work, for innovation and for justice is a struggle that makes sense for all classes, but also for every one. Ladies and gentlemen, you are resting on the laurels of recent elections. You can dominate the other spaces while introverting it. However, once you complete the crime of your failed negotiation, you will understand how far away you are from giving solutions to the problems of the country, how far away you are from giving work to the unemployed. And then the introverty of others doesn't save you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u216	Thank you. I should like to inform the House that under Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure it has been tabled by the necessary number of Members of the New Democracy, a request for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 21, 31, 39, 42, 43, 44 and 51, which will take place at approximately 21.00 hours tomorrow. Mrs Papacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a multi-brand plan, which is supposed to include prerequisites, and indeed, in the urgency of the matter. Of course, a lot has been said by the previous speakers, but I would like to say that on the part of the government and the ruling majority, so challengingly, you really make me think that you are the definition of populism. Moreover, the dictionary in the term "plasticism", when one opens it to find out exactly what this term means, next to it will list "SYRIZA" mainly and secondaryly "Independent Greeks", your congressive partners, who are slowly noticing, now that they see the difficult ones, start leaving the ship, abandon it. And that, of course, is your issue, but it also concerns the country. It concerns the country, which, after repeated elections, today sees - at the time we speak in the Greek Parliament, a multiplier plan, it is assumed, from prerequisites - that the Members of Parliament, even the most reliable, ladies and gentlemen, may wonder which of the measures are really prerequisites. We are also wondering why you have a fear of parliamentarianism. Because there is fearfulness with the democratic expression of the Greek Parliament, because you deny criticism, fear of control and appear fearful, distanced from the parliamentary process. How can I explain the fact, for example, that parliamentary scrutiny is being carried out and the ministers are not responding? We have been members of the government, and we have always been here to give the honourable Members a priority in their questions, and that does not seem to be the case, unfortunately, with you. On the other hand, we have heard a very fair and reasonable reaction from the colleagues almost all of them, in relation to what the Minister of Education, the Greek Government, the Greek democracy in relation to the Pontius Genocide said. About all the respondents - and even after a sincere decision by the House that had cleared this issue, namely, for the terminology of this act - there is an attack on our side, which is relied on by an empathy and about which we are being abandoned as 'nationalists'. As a legal scientist - because I have heard the Minister for Education that it is a matter of scientific approach - I will say that the Minister for Education, very consciously, has chosen the term 'national cleansing'. You know, ladies and gentlemen, why? Because, of course, there is no recognised legal terminology for ethnic cleansing and in that sense does not produce legal consequences. And since it does not produce legal consequences, it does not produce sanctions against the state that simply did ethnic cleansing. On the contrary, genocide is a legally recognised term, it produces legal consequences and therefore legal sanctions. Therefore, the Minister of Education very consciously used this term 'national cleansing' because he does not produce any legal consequence at all on the part that committed genocide. Now I would like to ask you this: do you feel happy, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, which the French President, Mr Holland, yesterday, actually took care of - and did well on his part - of protecting French beef? What have you done for Greek beef and for Greek farmers as Greek Government? How do you protect Greek livestock farmers and Greek beef, while the French President taught you how to protect French beef and French interests? Just answer us. Respond to the Greek Parliament. Please tell me a little, please, because I have heard a great deal of criticism about the previous government and the previous governments, so tell me what the regulation which you have in fact withdrawn as a result of the reaction of the government's partner because it did not pass, that is to say, cumulatively, so that you could pass this on to small and medium-sized brewers. Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u218	That's against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u219	It was, of course, voted against and was withdrawn from it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u220	He's voted against. He didn't retire.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u221	He was voted against, you're right. So please tell me, please very much: the OECD in its 'toolbox' under number 2 - because there has been a lot of discussion about the OECD - recommends that Greece adopt a gradual tax that works and proposes incentives for small producers to enter the market. Is that what you did? Of course not. You went and beat the Greek small breweries and leave the hard imported alcohol to the unavoidable. Question: At last, what interests do you, the'second time' left-wing government serve? Then tell me what the arrangements of the Ministry of Education have to do with the prerequisites. The way we legislate and you legislate in this case demonstrates how your political behaviour and how you understand the country's national planning. To tell me: is that the arrangements of the Ministry of Education, where you are giving more party influence, is the legislative initiative of the Minister of Education serving the prerequisites and serving something or promoting our educational system? Please tell me, please very much: we have tabled an amendment concerning VAT on education and on the nursing homes. You attack - take care - in the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable social groups, the children who study, the elderly who go to the nursing homes, the nursing homes and the disabled. I did not see the Minister of Education replying to me what is going on with the issues of special education, where he has, at home, those children who have to take the training that he has to receive and because he has been unable to deal with the issue, the children are under house arrest. Please tell me very much: is it not wrong and therefore damage to the place to legislate 'on the knee' and on the clipboard the Drapetson-Keratini front with so many open and outstanding issues? Evil costs the Greek people, creates problems and certainly does not pay tribute. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What is your policy, gentlemen of the government, in relation to farmers? Although I am not elected in a rural region, I am interested in this, because the country's rural economy is a very important part of our national economy. Why don't you do what's going on in Germany? Why do you not apply what is being done in France for French farmers? Why do you not apply tax reliefs and annual refunds in France, the Netherlands, Portugal, Norway, Hungary, Sweden? Do you know why? For you want to sell the Greek clergy and create new few landowners, taking their lot from the hands of the Greek farmers, without giving them any substantial incentive. In any case, what you legislate is handy, it is dangerous, it does not promote the place. It does not promote our national economy. And I think every day the Greek people realize how damaging a government you are after all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u222	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you have spoken of a parliamentary amendment that you are accepting. I've been telling you, we've been supporting her from the start. I would like you to tell me whether it is the only amendment that you accept and the others are rejected or whether there will be a second reading - let us say so - on your part and you will announce other amendments. Is the exam over? Because the Minister usually says who he accepts and who he does not. Do you only accept this one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u224	All the people I've announced I'm accepting, that's what I'm saying. The others haven't announced. There's a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u225	So there is no other announcements on the amendment that we should not be unfairly placed on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u226	There's tomorrow's day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u227	So the examination of the amendments has not been completed and it will be gradually. Ladies and gentlemen, various opinions have been heard and the majority Members of the House are struggling in their efforts to support difficult decisions, unfair decisions for citizens, unscrupulous decisions in relation to everything that they sometimes invoke on the channels and the public word. For example, we have this famous phrase of productive reconstruction and development, which we are all talking about. The government with concrete drafts, specific provisions, does everything contrary to the prospect of productive reconstruction, the strengthening of the country's development. And that seems through the provisions of the bill. I heard Mr Famello a moment ago trying to find evidence to document the positions that are not there. And when there's no evidence, you're trying to say something to inspire other MPs, and of course you're apologise to the citizens. I would say that it is enough to quote what you said not only before January, during the election period, but also before June to the citizens, before the September elections: 'Yes, some provisions have been passed and there are commitments, but we will find the way in which we will also adopt the famous theory of the equivalents to resolve the issues and not be charged, round the edges, make the knife softer.' But when you choose to have and keep a knife on either cuts or tax increases, or whatever else, as well as making the edges, in whatever way you nail it, it works. So you should look at the way you are dealing with things and address both us and the citizens. You are doing exactly the opposite of what you have been supporting until recently. And you haven't explained that to yourself either. It also seems from your expressions that these are things that you do not adopt, you do not believe them, despite the fact that passion for power, the decision to be governed - with this beautiful expression - is combined with the decision to become more effective memoranda than the previous ones. And that is what I believe the Prime Minister's expression is: "We have forty-six prerequisites for forty-eight. We are effective and capable. There has been no such progress ever." We therefore have, for the insurance policy, a provision whose rapporteur humiliates the government's way of thinking, acting and legislating. Another text that went to the Court of Auditors and another text came here. Has the government or the Bureau of Parliament checked who was guilty of what the report says? Can you deceive the House by bringing another provision, deceive the Minister himself? Who? That's what the government should have told us. We are therefore opposed to the provision, which for the first time abolishes fundamental rights. We have proposed an amendment and we want a response to our amendment from the Minister. The oil, which has been discussed so much, and Mr. Famelos has rejected it. It says: 'necessarily, it is a prerequisite'. Look, the issue of abolishing the refund of the oil tax does not hamper political support for the agricultural sector by means of a different form of aid. That is why we say that if you insist on abolishing the discount and raising the tax from EUR 66 per kilometre to EUR 200 per kilometre, then you must at the same time accept the institutional, innovative proposal that we are making for the establishment of the Agricultural Oil Card. The introduction of this card incorporating the right of the farmer, producer, farmer, farmer, fisherman, according to the declaration of the IACC, with the acres, with the type of farming, with the number of animals, etc. and with the entry in an electronic register by OPECE which corresponds to and has full transparency with its rights, we are again giving support to the farmer in relation to operating costs. This is not against any directive, in no agreement with the European Union, in any troika. Please explain why you reject this institutional proposal and the amendment when the time comes, of course. We have said a great deal about the small businesses in the brewery. You have put your Members here - and this is an injustice for them - to insist until the last minute to defend a provision which you knew in advance or which you were in agreement that it would be voted down or which will be withdrawn. He didn't have to retire because he was voted against. If it was this game, just so that the government partner can get a communiqué, then I really am sorry about the attitude towards the majority MPs, and of course, Parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. VAT on education. We have tabled the amendment to abolish. The New Democracy has then testified identically on the issue of VAT in the nursing homes and the nursing homes. Almond, is that where you arrived? To get VAT from the pension assigned to the nursing home, to the protection unit of the elderly, so that they see the old-age pensioner, the helpless person, who will not get the pension with this VAT increase, and will we have phenomena where they will say 'Come and get him'? Who? If there's no family, there's only one little pension. If possible. I would ask, at least for the elderly - and we see education - that you accept the provision that we propose to you, that it stays at least 13%. Finally, we tabled a proposal, an amendment to reinstate the incompatibility of EUR 1,500, Mr President. It's very important. Unfortunately, the provision that has been passed, which reduces the improper height, is completely negative for a large number of our fellow citizens, for many thousands of our fellow citizens who are really in a stalemate after this arrangement. We are proposing the reintroduction to EUR 1,500. In addition, we propose that, in order to clarify once and for all the exclusion from confiscation, settling or retention of the privileged disability benefits, the aids of all kinds which have to do with vulnerable groups, homeless people, the guaranteed social income and, of course, the one-off aid granted to the flood victims - which is timely - should not go to them by banks and should not be counted all of this up to EUR 1,500. I think it needs to be made up...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u228	Put a perfect one, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u229	I'm finishing by saying: the KIC provision, take it out, take it out because it's a humiliation. To say that the Minister can, above all what the laws and provisions lay down for all other presidents, give this institution only a month's more than a month's time - children, if it were brought by a government of the New Democracy or PASOK, now would have been a revolution here. And you don't have a gum to get her back, at least, her? Have you found the “brother ” that you will put and feed him and a monthly big one, to dig him“ enter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u230	You say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u231	Please retire too much. He'll keep up with it all the time. Apart from being unconstitutional. Is it possible to make ad hoc arrangements for the monthlyity of an institution's president?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u232	That's right. That's right, guys, he's right about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u233	Please very much. Do not humiliate yourself any more, Mr Colleague, by supporting such provisions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u234	Well done, Santa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u235	The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Dritsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to call for the understanding of this House and of the Bureau and of the Ministers of State or Government, because, despite the fact that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs has two articles which are not of a political nature but, on a case-by-case basis, I would say it is important, but also necessary, I have not been able to present them to the committee. [[At this point the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, takes over the presidential office.]] Because, these days and the strike of seafarers and other workers in the activities of the port and the migration - refugee and many other issues and my preparation for the journey I am going to make to China tomorrow, to participate in the events and to declare the end of the 'year of maritime cooperation between Greece and China' and many other issues, did not give me this opportunity. I also believe from my term in the House in previous years that this is the duty of the ministers and they must respond. I ask for your understanding. I will present these two articles, but before that, I consider it absolutely essential to make a reference to Article 28. I have heard from previous procedures and from publications, but also now, during the time I have followed the debate, some comments and criticisms, which may either be the product of ignorance or the product of specific options for matching with oligarchal, individual interests and not all the interests of a society, such as the Piraeus society, and in particular, in this case, the society of Drapetsona and Keracini. Everyone knows - those who, in any case, are involved in these issues, all of Piraeus and all of Keracini and all of Drapetsona - that the old fertiliser factories have been closed down with the struggles of the local society, claiming life. Because technology at that time made these factories operate with very disastrous health consequences for the inhabitants of Drapetsona, although it was an industry with a very long historical route and has played an important role in agricultural production in decades before reaching its decline. These games, then, of the people of Drapetson were accompanied by the vision and reclaiming of a new use of this space after the closure of fertiliser plants. It's been many years since. Drapetsona never forgot that claim. It is always present and not only with mobilisations, at the initiative of the municipal authorities, of residents' commissions, but also of the Pepperian commissions, which have passed through different phases, but also with studies, which the National Technical University has been very helpful for the renewal and use of the space. Throughout this route - I inform the House - society was present. Municipal authorities were present. Too many factors, the university community and especially the National Technical University were present. Throughout this process the National Bank was dramatically absent, which threw the ball on the platform at all times. He never took a serious initiative, although the ideas were too many, such as becoming the University of Piraeus, being a maritime centre, being a green, recreational area and all that. These discussions have been for twenty years! Neither the “LAFARGE” has ever intervened either “BP” or the National Bank. I do not understand now where they found interest in this area when the Minister and the Government initiative comes and approached, together with the exception of the concession agreement for the PPA of the coastal front, when a road opens and a 20-year-old vision and starts to enter a series. It is the living claim of an entire society, not the invention of a few. There was an absence of all these factors, which could have contributed with their fertile open-hearted approach, and they never did. Now what's interesting? How does it show interest? To keep an eye on what? A land lasting that we managed to save two and a half buildings from the wonderful buildings that this place had as a preserver? The ones who left the glasshouse, a monument of industrial history, arrested and protected nothing? With what authority, with what stature can these issues at the moment be raised? And I see willing representatives of parties and parties wholeheartedly mocking this very consistent initiative by Panos Skourletis and the Ministry, which is exactly coming to button with the exception of the coastal front and opening a very important path for a new era in Piraeus, Drapetsona and Keratsini. Let's get serious. One can choose interests or choose a development ideal, but reality does not show it. None of these industries have ever submitted a request to extend their buildings or new investments or anything else. Now how all this impulse and the excitement were born for new investments that Panos Skourletis, we, supposedly, stop them. I am therefore putting forward this experience, because it is also a personal experience of life, and I call on everyone to support this initiative, because on this basis it can actually begin a very constructive process of redesigning the region, which will give enormous impetus to the wider Piraeus region. So no one is fooling the government and much more Panos Skourletis. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] You'll give me two minutes, Mr. President. I'll speak very briefly. There is an ongoing strike by the Pan-Hellenic Naval Federation and other unions. We are at a critical point. The issues are very important. The strike is obviously legal and its demands very seriously. The government has them on the table. Progress has been made and there is a lasting dialogue. In any case, we hope that all this will have the best way out. But, at the moment, the strike movements, which complete two forty-eight hours, are giving rise to too many problems. We will not intervene in the workers' strikes. However, I have called for constant communication and consultation, and I invite them, from the Stepping-up of the House, to take account of all the data, because it is really possible for this course to end up with a lot of positive support for the workers, the retired - because everything is still open - and for the benefit of the Naval Abstract Fund. I'm moving on to two articles. Article 55 relates to a regulation we have already made with Article 67 of Law 4331/2015. It is a restoration of justice for workers of a shipping company whose ships have been seized, seafarers have been compensated and left unpaid, not only without compensation, workers of the shipping offices of this company. It's a history of many years old, multiple races, it's come to the House many times. Every time for some reasons it wasn't complete. It has been supported from time to time by many parties. This was passed by Law No.4331/2015, it was found that an improvement was needed for its final implementation, and this regulates Article 55. The first paragraph of Article 56 specialises in the application of public service contracts, what we call subsidies on so-called barren lines. It therefore regulates, in the scope of those conventions, public procurement provisions relating to grounds of force majeure and objective failure to fulfil contractual obligations. These are a few cases where we must also save self-government efforts and maintain a balance for the service of islands. But, to clarify this, it is not done in the air. ’ Provision is made for the legal possibility of amending contractual terms with Articles 24 and 26 of the d.o. 118/2007. Here, what this first paragraph does is to tighten the conditions for implementation, so that they can be fully transparent in any regulation to the good of the islands, adding compulsory opinion of the Transport Council taken after a public meeting at which all the relevant bodies are represented. The request by any shipowner in this respect, for an opinion, goes to the opinion of the CSR if there is a reason from the legislative framework, this is assessed, the objective weakness is assessed. From that point on, the Minister's decision is not a general decision, but it is a decision - an amendment of terms to resolve the objective weakness, when it is established, so that it does not affect the maritime link between the islands in the near future.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u237	Complete your thoughts, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u238	I conclude, Mr President, with the second paragraph, which supplements Article 50 of L.4331/2015. It is a very important intervention taken by the Ministry by using the discounting of guarantee letters received by the State following the collapse of contracts by ferry companies with the State. Here these guarantee letters are used to pay unpaid seafarers. This is the dramatic adventure of the seafarers of the “NEL” company. We have managed to regulate this issue, to open the way, and we are already, at the request of the General Accounting Office of the State, in the final arrangement with this paragraph, in order to complete this process and, of course, with guarantees that the public will not lose anything, we will ensure with all the possibilities, with all the arrangements already before us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u239	Close your speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u240	Finally, the third paragraph is also an aidive, existing legislative framework. It gives the opportunity to recruit those successful in the Port House competition, extending one year from the ranking of the successful ones instead of one year from the conclusion of the tender, which is currently in force. It is a regulation that we have managed to incorporate those who have had a greater degree than those who had been introduced into the schools of the Port Authority and to restore justice here, once again, by the great demands of these people. Now, in this final way, we are making this arrangement so that we can make time and finish this process. In this third paragraph of Article 56, the word 'prison' is replaced by 'class', because that is more correct. It was an abstract, and that's the legal improvement I'm presenting. [[At this point, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, presents, in practical terms, the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] PAGE PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u241	I'm sorry about the time and thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u242	Thank you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u243	Mr President, the point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u244	Mr President, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u245	Shouldn't I finish my proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u246	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u247	Thank you to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Theodoros Dritsa. We've made too much misuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u248	Mr President, please speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u249	Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u250	Mr President, first of all I am pleased that the Minister for Maritime Affairs has come, unlike the Minister for Finance who detested to appear in the House, even though there is a great deal of regulation in the bill concerning his Ministry, as did the Minister for Education, as I said before. I would like to point out this. The Minister here has analysed the provisions relating to his bill. It has not, however, analysed what it intends to do. It acquires a right unprecedented for any other Minister. It may, in its own right, amend public service contracts. Let us be honest, tell us what interests they are dealing with, what interests they want to serve, islands, companies, which have been mistreated? I have no objections, I do not raise any questions of moral reproach, but I want here, in the Minutes of the House, to submit his opinion. He had the courage finally, after three days of discussion, to come to the House. Let's explain everything. There's no reason for the Opposition to raise any issue, but we can't play hidden. Ten minutes he talked about Drapetson, about a regulation that raises compensation and is legally incomplete, beyond the folklore of the regulation, but he did not tell us about the arrangements of the ministry in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u252	Mr President, I too should like to speak and answer the Minister as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u253	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for the Minister to answer the whole question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u254	Thank you very much. Minister, we have heard you about the specific subject referred to in Article 56. We have our reservations that the relevant Minister for Maritime Affairs is authorised in white to amend the public service contracts, but I will make a concrete proposal on the basis of what I have heard from you a moment ago, because we have understood a rationale. We have understood a reasoning a moment ago, so that we can make a concrete proposal to safeguard you in this process, the Minister concerned. What's the problem? That shipowners' interests must be prevented from being served at the expense of the public interest service. I think that should be a common objective here. So let's see if it's done. How are you gonna save the opacity when the shipowner is on the other side? And in this process you said that you also wanted the Transport Council, the SAA, to play its part. So here too, in order to protect you, you must make the condition that you agree to this procedure. Please accept at the moment, therefore, on the basis of the reasoning you analysed a moment ago, that there should be an agreement of the CSCE.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u255	For 55, aren't you talking about assent?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u256	For 56, which was 55. As far as Rule 28 is concerned, we have heard a reasoning which we also stressed in our speeches. We really want the space there - and it is not just green - environmentally protected, innovative zones, thematic parks and the whole process. The question is whether all these thematic research and innovation parks are ensured in this process that you currently have. And we're talking in particular, beyond the fact that you're likely to get involved with judicial adventures. So, in this particular matter, if our objective is the overall exploitation, which we all want and which you have said specific objections to why had not been made at some point in time, is now being ensured? We say that at the moment there is no such overall planning and there is a possibility that we will be in trouble. Therefore, if we have a global objective, there must be a change and, of course, the Greek State must be guaranteed, so that it does not get involved in legal disputes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u257	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u258	The Minister responsible, Mr Skourletis, will answer for Drapetsona, whatever you say next, but I have to tell you that these are the sovereign rights of every state and cannot be called legal claims and, indeed, they are considered to have a valid foundation. This must not be said in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u259	They're not announced, you have to anticipate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u260	From there on this arrangement gives many possibilities for multiple designs. Just what it does not give is the opportunity to hide Drapetsona from the sea again and to be cut off from her natural space. Look, I answer Mr. Varvitsiotis and you. This regulation, in which we are putting the procedure for determining whether there are grounds for force majeure or objective weakness, is not invented by us in the process of these conventions. There are articles 24 and 26 of the a.m. 118/2007 which is a general contractual arrangement. We're not going to form a Minister's privilege. There is this issue, because life highlights it, and I want to tell you an example where this need arose, the island of Tasos Aliferis, Tilos. There is a danger, precisely for reasons of force majeure or objective weakness, which the Minister will not judge, will be judged by the U.S.A., upon request...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u261	Assent. Put your ass in the ass.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u262	He will judge it, precisely so that an island like Tilos is not destroyed that is a model and self-government and social. That cannot be ignored. There is nothing evil in this story or anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u263	Assent, put it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u264	You should give the assent, because otherwise...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u265	Watch out. I will study your proposal for “according to the agreement” and I will have proceeded with the final decision by tomorrow. First of all, I do not have any particular reservations, I just want to study it just to see whether there is a gap on this. I would like, in general terms, - and I shall end with this - the Council on Coastal Transport in most cases give its assent. I would like to inform you that, with regard to the term of office of this Government, the Transport Council has upgraded the quality of its operation very well and operates in a transparent manner and without compelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u266	Thank you to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Theodoros Dritsa. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. Mr George Georgios Georgios from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u267	Mr President, once again, eleven o'clock at night, at a meeting which began at five, I am the eleventh speaker from the Members. I think that, on this issue, which concerns all my fellow Members, the Bureau should do something, and above all, in relation to respecting the time of everyone taking the floor. Mr President, I have been following all this afternoon the positions of the SYRIZA Ministers, but also the positions of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, hoping that one of them will take a distance from the statements of the Minister of Education, that one of them will express a disapproval of these statements. He did, to be honest, only one MP from the ANELs. No one else. Instead of doing so - and I did not say to condemn, but to take a distance, to disapprove - the SYRIZA ministers have chosen, in particular, expressions such as 'patriokala', 'lakatism','specula', 'a game of systemic media' to accuse the opposition, which has reacted to the issue that it has raised, as if the issue was created by the opposition, as if it were in all this noise, on all this subject which has exposed the country, is the responsibility of the opposition, which - as it should have said - has highlighted it. After all, it is an issue that the Opposition did not need to emerge. And where we were expecting such a statement, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman came about an hour ago to really go beyond every limit in today's debate on the issue that has arisen. Neither little nor much did he mention that the New Democracy party itself, not the party itself, but the previous parties of the Right in Greece are responsible for the Asia Minor Destruction! We heard that too! There's a record in the Minutes. "You speak?" he said - and I am glad that he is here - the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative to the Members of the New Democracy, giving us responsibility for the Asia Minor Destruction. And then - you know - it looks like the targeting. Do you know what it is? It's division and disorientation. This is SYRIZA's targeting. I for the statement of each “science”, Mr. Friend, would have no objection to express in any area of science that should be expressed. However, when it comes to a statement by the Minister of Education, issues arise from this statement, which is confusing in the educational community and splitting up the people. At the moment, half the Greeks or not half the Greeks, a small portion of Greeks with a larger portion of Greeks are sitting and discussing what is genocide and what is ethnic cleansing. And the children who will go to the sixth grade or the third grade - and I have here the excerpts from the books of their history to which the Genocide refers - will not know what to believe: their book or the Minister of Education? I shall submit to the minutes copies of the history book of the sixth grade and third grade, where the word "Genocide" is quite correct. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So every one of us, who is a Minister, must understand that no personal opinion can speak on such matters and know that just this expression has consequences. These consequences, this division, this weakening of the country's diplomatic power abroad on these issues, we are paying with this - not to say the inadmissibility - of Mr Philly's position, which, unfortunately, no one today, nor the SYRIZA ministers, nor the SYRIZA Members, has denounced, and I think that this is the most important thing today. On the bill, to end a fairy tale, if we voted on the measures you keep saying that we voted on, why do you bring them back? Shall we vote again? Tell me. "You voted for them," he says. If we voted for them, why do you bring them back? Explain to me what we voted on and what you're bringing back. Do we have to vote twice? Did they tell us they should be in duplicate? That's new. Well, listen a little. We voted on the framework of the agreement on 14 August, voted for the targeting of the objectives necessary for the country so that agreement can be reached. We declared from 14 August by our President, Vangelis Meimarakis, from this step forward that we do not accept the individual measures. We'll see them one by one. And, indeed, we said prophetically then that we will be against the farmers' tax and whatever measure it is against them, as well as the VAT of 23% on education. So why are you telling us today that we voted for farmers? Why do you bring it back? In two months, will we vote the same bill twice? We didn't vote for the law. We voted for the framework and understand it. I'm saying it so people can figure it out. If they were voted on today, they wouldn't come here. They come here and you do not actually say it about us 'You voted', you say it so people can hear it. Do you know what people can hear? “ Why do you respond? You voted for us on 20 September and after you voted on 20 September, this framework was known, so do not react." And to listen to some SYRIZA MPs who have started a little bit of displeasure about the content of the measures today, is it like saying to them: “Why are you smacking? On 20 September the world approved what you yourself voted on 14 August." This tale that the New Democracy voted for these measures you bring, which is your own result, does not exist. The New Democracy has voted for the agreement so that the country can stay on its way to the European Union, but we have told you since that the result of the negotiation and the measures are yours and you will now suffer the consequences. I'm just going to say two more words on the bill. The first is that you have taken no account of the response of the Committee of the Regions and the CEDEFOP, in relation to the provisions on waste, where you are actually limiting the roles of the regional councils. One more thing. I waited here today to hear a word from a Member or a Minister for the disapproval of the external evaluators who went today to the University of Athens. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman was talking about the need to keep young people in the country, about the need to carry out reforms. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President. However, no one from the SYRIZA MPs had a word of disapproval for the breakthrough suffered by the five external evaluators at the universities, as if the university were an unbaptised one, as if the university could not have any control over anyone who comes for the sake of the university itself. With such actions, with such moves, you convince the Greek people that there really is no plan and that, unfortunately for them, the'second time left' may be the last, but I don't know, unfortunately, what situation you will leave the country. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr George Georganta, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Charalambos Athanasios, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been completed a month and a half since the people trusted their government to SYRIZA and ANEL for the second time. However, we still expect good news, a small indication even that something is going well for our country, that there is a duplicate plan for the reconstruction of the country. Instead, what are we experiencing? The biggest political retreats, the fucking tumbles of our modern history. The main thing is that we are experiencing the increase in problems and the expansion of what already existed. How does SYRIZA deal with this? But obviously with unprecedented and provocative statements from its officials, who naturally intend to turn public attention to issues regardless of the context. Why am I saying that? I refer to the issue of the Pontius Genocide and the statements made by the Minister of Education. Mr. Friends, when he speaks as a friend, is entitled to express his views on any matter he wants. As Minister of Education, however, he is not entitled to express such views. It is not allowed by thousands of our fellow citizens who are insulting without aholding them, who are now represented as Minister of all Greeks, and not just as a Member of Parliament. It is not allowed by the dominant scientific view, as the most competent body, the International Association of Genocide Studyers, has recognized since 2007 as a genocide the brutal and deliberate slaughter of Pontian Hellenism. It is not allowed by our National Assembly, which, in 1994, officially recognized the slaughter of the Pontians as Genocide. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 4285 voted recently by the Greek Parliament and which I had the honour of proposing. Of course, SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, did not vote for this law. Nor can the juncture allow him to make such statements when the Prime Minister's visit to Ankara is due. What I'm saying is no special theory or point of view. They are, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the basics of politics. These basics are either you don't know or on purpose you ignore them, to obtain micro-party benefits at the expense of the country. The Minister of Education is evidenced by the lightning of this government. Once things get tough, to make a statement, friend, and we're all dealing with it, and not with the real problems. Thus, the debate on VAT on education stops, and the debate on refugees and immigration is at the forefront. No debate is taking place on the acts of the Ministerial Council to grant airports. I only remind you of what SYRIZA said about both the act of a Ministerial Council and the privatisations, not a few years ago, but a few months ago. I ask: why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, did you not include these arrangements in the bill we are debating today, as you have included the concession of the horse race, but are you clearly legislating in an unconstitutional way? In the same way as I have just described, today everyone is dealing with the Minister's statement and not with this bill. It is a bill which, under the pretext of incorporating a Community directive, contributes to the further dismantling of the real economy, which the government has successfully accomplished. This bill concludes the increase in excise duty on farmers from EUR 66 to EUR 200 per kilometre in order to continue their poverty, but also to be less competitive with Greek products. This measure will also apply retroactively, from 1-10-2015 to 30-9-2016. Under Article 52 of the same law, the Government has attempted to dismantle the Greek brewery, a sector that in recent years has successfully innovated, products with international recognition, a sector that has given jobs to many unemployed scientists in the province, especially in remote regions, which so much needed them. Thanks to the low rate of excise duty, small Greek companies were able to look into their eyes two multinational giants in brewery, which today, even at reduced rates compared to earlier, control over 4/5 of the market. This 1/5 left with great anxiety, struggle, play and work were won by Greek brewers in Argolida, in your homeland, Mr. Andriane, in Chios, in Rhodope, in Rethymnon, in Rhodes, in Evia and not only. This percentage of government wants to return it to the two big players. One of the governments must finally explain to us how this measure contributes to the development of the country or even to increasing competition on the beer market, when the excise duty in force was one of the main reasons why the monopoly was broken on that market. Because of the non-voting of the relevant provision by the government partner, this measure has now been withdrawn. Just a few days ago, we proved that the useful and necessary bills are in favour of them and we support them. However, the provisions that I mentioned above mark this bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. In the one minute left I will say that Mr Skourletis, who is not here at this moment, told us that SYRIZA was invited to implement New Democracy policies and Mr Famelos, who is also not here, told us that with the amendments brought by the New Democracy there were photographic and graceful contracts and that these amendments were necessary. In conclusion, I would like to read you something, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to ask my colleagues in SYRIZA to pay attention to: 'In a country struck by their memoranda and politics, they dare bring to the House some sort of bills - broom, which is a new round of barbarism, and which is the preamble for the new memorandum, which will gradually be imposed after the elections if they are allowed to complete their destructive work. SYRIZA, based on the will and active intervention of society, will dismantle one of the provisions of austerity, divestment and social dismantling. It is only their method of conduct that proves that their crime is premeditated.’ [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I conclude, Mr President, with the amendments: 'The tabling of the sudden amendments - sometimes rather than just a vote on bills or unrelated bills - is the tip of the iceberg, which has now deteriorated. I am referring to Parliament's conscious despair by the government in trying to get the House directly to the Prime Minister and the Ministerial Council, and finally to the cancellation of even formal consultation, in order to impose without stumbling the government's will on the House." We don't talk about that. It is said by the Prime Minister, in part, by other ministers, in the black book of shame, which you have published and today you have exceeded. We will collect these, publish them in the yellow book of shame. That's what you've been saying so far. Here's her, this is the black book! With regard to Mr Dritsa - I have also noted - I agree with the colleague who said that he must, Minister, put this provision for assent. I think it's right. Of course, we also need to acknowledge the efforts you have made for the coastline of the islands, especially of the borderlines, because we must not just say negative ones. We must also welcome the good things that are being done. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u270	Thank you to Mr Charalambos Athanasios, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Ioannis Andrianos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. Here, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again discussing a draft law drawn up by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with absolute care, which, first and foremost, is demonstrated by the explanatory statement itself and by the text to which it refers, which is a little related to the text which this House is called upon to vote on today. However, with regard to issues of particular criticality and importance to deal with the crisis and the recovery of the recession, to which we have returned because of the manipulations of this government, haste, curiosity and the absence of a structured economic strategy are very bad consultants. This means that we see the majority vote on one multi-brand plan after another, texts where the new burdens are excessive, and there is no even any suspicion of development. But the question remains the same. From the start of the crisis to the present day, citizens, regardless of what they vote, have been asking for three things: fair burden sharing, efficiency, safeguarding the prospect of exiting the crisis. Unfortunately, none of these three are seen in the legislative initiatives of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy rapporteur has analysed the party's positions and our very specific objections to the individual predictions and the overall philosophy of the bill. But let me highlight three of the most problematic points: first of all, the provision of a new burden for farmers. Colleagues elected in the region are well aware of the livelihoods of farmers, farmers and fishermen today. They know the daily struggle that farmers give to stay on their land, so that they do not give up their land, a struggle with high production costs, with low producer prices, with high premiums, with climate change that brings about ever more disasters in crops and crops, with delays in ELGA compensation, with bureaucracy that, instead of often, makes things even more difficult. It is therefore not possible in this environment to discuss further increased production costs through increased fuel consumption tax. See what France, Germany, all the other European countries returning their farmers' taxes on fuel, thereby supporting the primary sector and recognising its national importance. On the contrary, we have in the government's plans an increasing tax burden. As already leaked, the tax increase to 20% and 26% is being prepared in 2017 from the first euro, which, together with the increase - almost trillion - leads farmers to total impoverishment. When a couple of farmers are invited to pay about 400 euros a month to be insured in the OGA, we understand that many times most will not be able to respond and will be uninsured. If we add the VAT increase from 13% to 23% in fertilisers and agricultural supplies, we understand the difficult situation in which farmers and agricultural production come. Also, as regards the advance payment for next year, we all know that we are from rural areas and from rural families that next year's production cannot be predicted, because it is not up to us, but largely from the weather. It is therefore not possible, instead of motivating agricultural production, to condemn it with every bill even more deeply in full depreciation. There should therefore be provision for the refund of the levy on fuel, based on the OSCE of each farmer, but also for the fishermen. Secondly, we have the forecasts for small brewery, one of the few productive sectors that in the crisis showed strong growth and export prospects, such as in my own country of Argolida. The government, then, hostile to any sense of entrepreneurship, wanted to punish this success with the provisions relating to this sector - and fortunately they were voted against by almost all the parties of counter-population, apart from the ruling party of SYRIZA - in the committee responsible. It wanted to promote measures that essentially seal the potential for further development of these enterprises, provisions which would condemn these brewers by brutally hitting the small and medium-sized Greek enterprises and would most clearly protect foreign oligopolises, which control 70% of the domestic market, a record record that demonstrates the distortion caused by the wrong regulatory policies. We say, then, that when you have a sector that develops, particularly in the very unfavourable circumstances of the crisis, you have to support it, even by not putting any obstacles on it. Thirdly, we have the forecasts for energy savings. Unfortunately, the bill lacks any provision that could, by encouraging savings, support the currently tested branches of various professions, such as building technicians, carpenters, irons, aluminides, plumbers and electricians. While the construction has been frozen for years, the time we already have the experience of projects such as 'Security', which could be improved and improved, and others accordingly, in order to save energy, but also to give work to various sectors, the government and here it shows - at least until now - inaction. In all three examples, therefore, what is demonstrated, in the most emphatic way, is the impossibility of the government, even to consider ways to stimulate growth. It turns out that SYRIZA - ANEL co-government is caught in an ideological obsession that does not allow it to understand that, especially at this moment, growth, boosting production, creating jobs in the private sector is a priority and a prerequisite, which will also allow the way out of the crisis and the gradual healing of wounds that have opened up in our society and the exercise of effective social policy. We see this with 23% VAT on education, for which the solution has not yet been found. We see it with increased VAT in nursing homes, in nursing homes, as there are no competent, public structures for the elderly. You need to get it back. New Democracy and these two issues have already tabled an amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just one minute, Mr President, as you have shown tolerance to my previous colleagues. And this bill, like the previous ones brought by this government, does not guarantee either justice in burden-sharing or out-of-crisis perspective. That is why they do not respond to the needs of society and the economy. We are voting against, by knocking down the alarm. They are already starting to accumulate once again heavy clouds over Greece. We therefore call on the government, while there is still time, to abandon its ideology and prejudice and to turn to growth, employment and real social justice. To turn to the direction which we all know, regardless of our ideological identity, is what our country needs today. I conclude, Mr President, on a point of order: we must make it clear to the governing party that we have voted in a responsible manner. In the summer we voted to keep our country in the European Union. We voted to keep our country from falling on the rocks. This was the responsibility of this party, which has demonstrated it at all the critical turnings in our country's history. So that should be appreciated by the ruling party and by the government. The result of the negotiation, like the measures that have emerged from it, is yours. That's clear. This must be made clear and understood by the Greek people. As my colleague said before, if we voted on the measures you say, why do we not vote on them today? So why do you bring them back? It's got to end this fairy tale. We are responsible for feeling where the country is going, and we have consistently supported the European perspective and to keep our country in the European Union. You must appreciate this and not gratuitously say 'you voted, etc.'. We didn't vote. All we have voted on was that the country should remain in the European Union. The Greek people also see that the government's attitude is not responsible, as are the ministers and MPs who spoke about the important political issue that emerged with Mr Phile's national slip. We need to be clear and not to cover this slip, this challenge towards martyr Pontian Hellenism, nor to abandon New Democracy. We heard from a colleague from SYRIZA before that we were also responsible for the Asia Minor Destruction and the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u272	But finish your thoughts, Mr. Adriane.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u273	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are unacceptable things. I think we're all judged. The Greek people judge. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman asked a rhetorical question about what is bothering us. What is bothering us is to see on the front page the relevant statements by the Minister of Education - not by the friend but by the Greek Minister of Education - in the Turkish newspapers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Andriano. Mrs Anna Karamanlis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left Government is introducing another bill by means of an urgent procedure, along with that for the recapitalisation of the banks. It's a rule now, it's all in the leg! "We are not in regularity," Skourletis said to be justified. The people say to us: 'Or you told us a priest before you were ordained'. However, a little self-criticism, Minister, does not harm when the government itself shoved the nipple in its neck, creating a suffocating framework with its incorrect manipulations. And on this occasion - Mr Skourletis is not here for a long time - to ask for an apology from the workers in Skouria. They're people you used as your political chess pawn. But what is the exceptional urgency of the bill? To harmonize Greek legislation with an important other European energy directive? But you're nine months government. Did you now suddenly discover that we are in danger of a fine for the non-conformity of the country, when you even found the relevant bill ready from our own government? The incorporation of the directive, however, is nothing but the wrapping in which you are trying to hide articles that are vitally affected by the Greek economy and give the charismatic shot at the productive branches fighting with nails and teeth to survive. You know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what would Mr Lafasan would have said? "Coup d'état", articles that, if they had come from another government, would have dropped the cement of the House! Remove the discount on agricultural oil and lead farmers to desperate situations. Because it's not just their oil charge. We have increased VAT on agricultural supplies and there has been an increase in the taxation of farmers and their insurance contributions. This is a frontal attack against a top sector of the Greek economy. Is that what you had in mind when you were talking about productive reconstruction plans in the country, Minister? The extermination of farmers? No one claims that the burden should not be shared among farmers. But here we are talking about targeting. The horizontal taxation of primary production, without any parameter, is not favoured only by growth. On the contrary, the rapid increase in the cost of production will be fatal to the consumer as it will cause a new wave of appreciations for Greek agricultural products. It is good that, in the end, under suffocating pressures and common outcry, you have had to withdraw the article on reducing the tax deduction for small brewers. This was a provision that would crush small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector and strengthen the large and powerful, in a way which at least raises concerns about your intentions and which, of course, is a typical example of your perception of Greek entrepreneurship. From the chapter on education, I would like to focus on changing the composition of the Regional Councils of Primary and Secondary Education. It presupposes the educational and not the administrative prerogatives of their members, although the Boards of Directors have administrative tasks to ensure the necessary supply and demand. It is obvious that the aim is to complete party control of the education administration in the standards of the selection of regional managers. It is something that you are really pressing for, Minister, because the party “loopers” have been put on hold and are unpunished for their own part of power. You, of course, rush to offer it to them. The Regional Waste Management Plan will be adopted by the Regional Councils after the agreement of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior and the Environment has been preceded. We see that there is centralization and dismantling of the regional councils, where it effectively abolishes the decisive competence and restricts them to a role of imperialism in an issue that should have the first reason. In the background, of course, there is the absolute control of the waste management projects, which is the main objective of the government. The Committee of the Regions and the CEDEFOP have already raised an issue of the unconstitutionality of the article and there is a clear risk that we will enter into an endless conflict between self-government and central power over what we will do with the garbage. Minister, what does comrade Durou say to remove responsibility? She shouldn't be very happy. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you claimed before the elections that you would come to express the new one. Your agenda, however, is now evident and you also prove it in this bill on many points, with the abstraction of reform and overtaxation of the whole society, with the over-concentration of powers and the establishment of a party state. All this, not just the news, but it's the most outdated and anachronistic there is. Unless the insulting views of the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, of the Pontius Genocide, who, as we read, insists on his ideas, are considered new. He hasn't set foot in plenary and he doesn't bother asking for an apology. These are ideas we meet in the grey wolves argument. That is not what I am saying, but the President of the Pambodian Federation of Greece. Mr. Philis forgets that he is no longer journalist, he does not run “SYEW”, but he is Minister and represents the entire Greek people. It should be particularly careful and should not express personal views on national issues. If he now wants to say something that reminds himself of neo-communist internationalism, even those who still believe in them can do so from his home. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But this is the task of a Prime Minister who recognises that the historical identity, memory and heritage of Pontian Hellenism require respect for everyone and above all by the Minister of Education. Minister, I'm closing with one wish. We hope that a number of ten ministerial amendments will not come tomorrow, so that you can take care of your recesses. We'll wait for it with an agony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u276	Thank you to Mrs Anna Karamanlis, Member of the New Democracy. Ms. Hara Kefalidou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we do indeed have in front of us serious issues relating to the disbursement of the EUR 2 billion subsistence, which in turn is linked to the payment of government debts to the market. These serious issues must be tackled with the seriousness and the thought that they are given. So where is your seriousness, ladies and gentlemen of the government? I am opposed to the fact that today another bill is coming to Parliament, where under pension regulations and the incorporation of a Community directive are hidden prerequisites for the agreement of 14 August. Is it a sign of seriousness, however, to bring bread to the House and to the “against one” a heavy broom bill on matters that you have known since August? Is it a sign of seriousness to ask the House to vote for a law, in fact by voting against matters it voted on a few days ago? I am referring to Article 1 on pension arrangements, which is the result of another “foot job”, another case where the desecrated vote on bills ultimately misleads Parliament. Emergency doesn't mean either leg or café. The concept of urgency refers to the urgent need for action, but also to the seriousness of the issues involved. But you don't learn from your mistakes because your attack blurs your thoughts. We are going to Part II of this draft law on the transposition into national law of Directive 2012/27 on energy efficiency. You know very well that the country is being apologised and with a threat of a fine of EUR 30 000 a day because of the government's failure. For eight months, a bill was prepared in the drawers of the Ministry. What did the government do? Absolutely nothing. It comes today with an abbreviation of unrelated provisions to vote again “in fast” all that neglected to regulate in its previous term. Who would not want, ladies and gentlemen, functional buildings in the wider public sector in the standards of energy efficiency? They are good words, but where will the money be found for all these joys that we legislate? Where will the private money be found in Greece of SYRIZA for the energy improvement of its building, which has been rented to the public, in a Greece with capital controls and inability to borrow bank? I would like to dwell on some articles and start with Article 21 on the establishment of the Energy Efficiency Special Fund. The green fund, ladies and gentlemen, which already exists, does not like you, nor is it enough for you, and that is why you are building another public body. The public is small, and we need to raise it a little more! This is how you realise the need to curb state spending! And when the account doesn't come out again, you have the solution: Running private schools, calf meat, private, real estate, pensions... Article 31(2), in particular paragraph 2. On what basis does the government strangle self-government, subtracting “so I” easily and hastily from the region? On issues primarily within the competence of local communities, why should the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Interior, in essence, approve of the regional council's decision on how waste is managed? What is this, if not another sample of democratic centralism a la SYRIZA? Scandinavian Article 37 for the head of the CEAT and his reward. Withdraw. He raises many questions about the government's real intentions. Who, then, has it made commitments to require a joint decision of the Ministers of the Member States to define it? What is the purpose of this provocative exception from the provisions in force? Article 35. The government is trying to correct a mistake, creating larger ones. It replaces a presidential decree with a common ministerial decision, thereby depriving the elementary legal certainty provided by the Presidential Decree - as it is subject to preventive control of the Board - of a company aiming at the construction and management of gas pipelines and other developmental infrastructures and of the share capital of a million euros paid by the Greek State. It is a company, that is, with public benefits, made with money from the unrelentingly tax-paid Greeks, which will operate without safeguards, almost as if it were a private shop. Is the government cut off for transparency? Ladies and gentlemen, time is too limited to refer to the arrangements of incomparable foolishness that this bill has. Article 51. As far as agricultural oil is concerned, an amendment has been tabled to introduce a farm oil card. Article 52, for small breweries, fortunately after the general outcry is withdrawn. You know what? These startups small brewers that seem to have a future, on one night would become shutdowns with a SYRIZA seal. Fortunately, they've been saved for now. To say a few words about the amendment tabled to the committee this morning and I am pleased to see the Minister accept it. Thank you in advance for your positive position, at least, Minister. This amendment concerns an issue of great importance, because it removes distortions in the sector of modern hydropollutant plants with the cogeneration of electricity and high-efficiency heat. The method of invoicing electricity from these plants has been adjusted by Mr. Date of birth: (a) 4254/2014. (b) 4254/2014. (c) 4254/2014. This adjustment included only the units operating on the date of entry into force of the law and not the new ones. As a result, new stations operating are not included in the adjustment of the pricing method and there is an unfair competition between old and new plants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. The proposed amendment restores justice, restores equality, stimulates the investment interest in a primary industry that is highly exporting and has a great need for our country. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say this: what the world expects from the government of the fresh second opportunity of the Left, especially now that it has landed in the harsh reality, is to govern. So rule seriously, with responsibility and results. Rotating time, you're sawing the country's last chance. Running the last minute and voting for the laws you wrote “on the foot”, you are unfair to yourself and you are taking all Greeks into your neck. All Greeks - not just those who voted for you! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u278	Thank you to Mrs. Joy Kefalidou, Member of the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u279	Mr President, may I have the floor for two seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u280	Yes, Minister. How long do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u281	For 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u282	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u283	I asked for the floor to be recorded in the Minutes. How many tons and how clearly we will say - we have already said this at the first hearing yesterday - that what we have changed with the secretaries? We are constantly critical of this issue. We will say again that there is no such provision as they refer to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u284	Thank you, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy. Two other speakers will speak, Mr Athanasios Michalis from SYRIZA after Mr Skourikos and the meeting is concluded. Mr. Michalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many of the general and outside draft laws. I won't stand accordingly. I shall refer to specific articles of the draft law on education. First, service councils. With the draft law, what exactly happens? The term of office of the two staff members of the boards shall expire and shall be laid down in the procedure for their selection. The term of office of the Members of the European Parliament shall remain until the end of the term of office of the Members of the European Parliament. Please note that the term of office of the training directors ex officio is extended when it expires on 31 August 2015. On this subject, they were heard by the excessive'repealed boards' to 'interested but potentially non-functional', 'determining members by lot'. I note here that we are talking about service councils and I do not know when, where and how draw-up service councils can be run. They're not handled, they're management bodies. However, the historic route of the service councils to date simply records the participation of employees' representatives in them. One was institutionalized in 1975 and two elected in the five members of the service councils in 1986. The majority was always maintained by the administration and the councils were always chosen by their heads either Ministers or regional directors, appointed by the Minister by law in 2000, while for the first time they were designated in 2002. I say that, because there have also been inaccurate reports, I find it inadvertent. Through these councils, the Ministry, within the framework of the law, is trying to implement its policy. I should like to conclude by pointing out one point. I think that the question of the setting-up of the Councils is essentially involved - without always admitting this - with possible arbitrage of their decisions. Therefore, in addition to their careful and rational formation, they must first be institutionalised, their absolute clear competence - this is largely true - and, secondly, the requirement of well-founded and well-documented decisions. This is not so much the case. And here is the heart of the problem, and that is why we must stand. The second issue is the term of office and the choice of managers in education. I'm going to be a little historical. Since 1982 the country's administration has ceased to apply the classic hierarchical model of enhancement and development of executives - what in scientific terminology is recorded as a "registrative management model", bureaucratie in French - and followed by the model of selection of executives with a mandate and assessment of specific qualifications, the following is observed: First, the intended term of office has never been observed. The governments have always ended this when they changed, and so were the executives. Secondly, with changes in governments, the legislation in question also changed. The main feature was by changing legislation to reorder the gravity of qualifications and evaluation procedures. Some of these qualifications were: Typical qualifications, scientific qualifications, interview, competition of the AAP - which took place only once in 2007 - and a vote of teachers for the promotion of staff that was only recently made. All these qualifications were altered in importance as selection criteria. In my opinion, this practice is in no way a constructive tactic for the development of staff in need of each management body, particularly training. I think this should be the pursuit of a wide-ranging dialogue, as the Minister for Education has announced it, and I think it will start soon. And because, Mr President, I would like to thank you and stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Mr Michalis, for understanding time and fatigue. The reason for seven minutes is SYRIZA MEP Mr. Panagiotis Skourikos, who is the last speaker for today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the previous governments are deeply backward and, despite their statements on the contrary, they have kept our country at a standstill in key areas, delaying the settlement of issues that are important, not only technologically, but also socially and economically, such as energy savings. Energy, as a key factor in survival, but also in the quality of life of the citizens, is a good we need it increasingly. However, natural reserves are not enough. It is not enough old management methods. They do not cover modern needs for old technologies. Everywhere modern societies take measures to ensure maximum energy efficiency at the lowest possible cost. Here, all these years, we have faced the matter with grief and reluctance, referring it to the ultimate future. So this future has arrived and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is coming to fill a gap that previous governments should have taken care of in order to settle. This indifference about the maximum issue of energy savings is another area, which is clearly another area that previous governments have done nothing, because they have been busy cutting off wages and pensions indiscriminately. They are the same ones who are now astonishing as if they had now arrived in the country, as if the earth had begun to turn on January 25, 2015 and had never been before. They were not here, they had not taken part in this fall of the country, in the creation of the hundreds of thousands of unemployed. They say they voted for a framework, they agree with this framework, but they do not vote for the laws that will implement this framework. It is incomprehensible and the Greek people are listening, seeing and judging. At the same time, demolishing the country over the years, they have created a landscaped drugged for whatever government of social salvation would come at some point. This government, therefore, has come and ensures, with this bill, a dangerous mine on the foundations of our social and economic life. It incorporates the European Energy Efficiency Directive into Greek law so that our country is not considered a pan-European energy saving directive. Hospitals, schools, swimming pools, national street lighting, households, businesses are ensured in ways that energy will cost less and will pay more. There is a lot to be done by 2020 in this area. Technology is constantly evolving. Therefore, regular information programmes for private, business and public sectors should be developed for future developments, proposing best practices for new tomorrow's energy management systems and highlighting the benefit resulting from their adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1929 the population of the earth was two billion people. Each of them, on average, spent twelve people in the pre-industrial age energy. In 1979 the population was four billion and on average one man spent twenty - seven people in the pre-industrial age. In 2020, the population is projected to be around nine billion and spending on each will be equal to forty-three more pre-industrial people. We have been dramatically delayed. The previous governments were dramatically delayed. The vote on this draft law, therefore, but also the monitoring of future developments, is urgent. The indication of incorporation into the Greek law of the Community directive has been in place since 2012. A moment ago the speaker told us what we are doing seven months ago. Since 2012, previous governments have had this suggestion in their hands. They didn't do anything. So then the government has slipped. This is not a directive where it simply stimulates entrepreneurship and creates jobs, things that are very important too. It's a directive, a law tomorrow, that saves the future. The current government is looking for a better presence, preparing for a more bright - transport and indeed - future, in the face of this terrible situation in which the country was delivered to us. So I urge you to vote in favour of this bill, giving the country a powerful tool for our public tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u288	Thank you Mr Panagiotis Skourikos, SYRIZA MP, last speaker for today. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-04-S2-commons.u289	(b) legislative work, the discussion and the vote of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Retirement arrangements, incorporating Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Council Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC’, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013, ‘For the adaptation of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions.
