ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-24-S1-commons.u2	SYRIZA MP Athanasia (Sia) Readingstopoulou filed a petition to the Ministry of Health, expressing his protest about the conditions of dismissal of the Greek Red Cross. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Athanasios Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou have submitted a petition to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, with which the Association of Officials and Private Officials of Kavala denounces the operation "SUPER - MARKET ARVANITIDIS" for infringements of its workers. Golden Dawn MP Konstantinos Barbarousi filed a report to the Ministry of Health, with which the nephropathic residents of the Prefecture of Etolokarnania denounce by their out-of-court the alteration of the dialysis program to the General Hospital of Agrinio. MEP: Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning: (a) the citizen's request for occupational safety under the State's guarantee. b. the publication of the newspaper “MONOMY” on 22-6-2015, which refers to the retention of assigned overtime for the year 2014 to the staff of the University Hospital of Patras “Panagia Help”. To the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction concerning: a. the request of the Municipality of Patras to investigate and resolve the problem of non-approval of workers' number contracts at the Local Government Organisations (OTAs) of Achaea. b. the request of the National Federation for the Rights of the Autonomous Spectrum for a favourable amendment to the Law. 3996/2011, which renounces retirement due to older parents, spouses and sisters of disabled persons over 67%. To the Ministries of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, concerning the request of the Forestry Branches for the withdrawal of the draft law on "Tax on the inside and off the ground", which affects the outside movements of these officials. To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the protest of the Association of Employers and other Specialities in the Thessaloniki Metro to handle their labour issues by the employers' consortium. To the Ministries of Economic and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the request of the U.S. Pensioners' Association, on the compensation to be granted to pensioners retired in 2011. To the Ministry of National Defence regarding the request of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Kalamata for the maintenance and operation of the military unit of the 9th Infantasian Constitution of ‘Yannitsa’, based in the local camp ‘Papelessa’ in the Kalamata region. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs regarding the letter of the National Federation for the Rights of the Autonomous Spectrum, expressing its protest about the circular of parallel support for the students of the Authentic Spectrum and requesting its withdrawal and the restoration of the problems of its members. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs concerning the protest of the Greek Association of Informatics on the non-incident of teachers from the IP19 and IP20 sectors with certified knowledge in Information and Communication Technologies as well as the separation of IT sections into two different scientific fields for the school year 2015-2016. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction concerning the letter of a citizen requesting the withdrawal of the decision lifting its placement as Head of the On-the-spot Verification Unit of the Special Management Office of the Region of Attica. To the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Culture, Education and Religion regarding the publication of the newspaper "The editors' Journal", on 14-5-2015, which highlights the risk that the voluntary structure of the interdisciplinary network "Include" in the Municipality of Thessaloniki will cease. To the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs and State regarding the request by the non-profit Association "The Friends of the Tomb of the Nation" for the free concession of an appropriate area within the public grove of the capital for the construction of a sacred temple, free of charge by the Greek State. To the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the request of the Citizens' Union "Citizens Movement of Documents" to restore the damage caused by the intense weather phenomena of the past winter in Agragra. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the Website Publications (www.pireouspress.gr), posted on 19-5-2015, denouncing a "supermarket name chain for finding a damaged product" and highlighting the need to activate the relevant control mechanisms in the Attica Region. To the Ministries of Inland and Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, and to the Ministry of Industry, Environment and Energy concerning the publication of the newspaper “SHAIOS” on 22-6-2015, which denounces major deficiencies in the area of waste management in Patras. To the Ministry of Finance concerning: a. The newspaper 'Parapolistics' report on losses on shares in the group of known newspapers. b. A citizen's request for the institutionalisation of the exclusive use of the tax card in the process of repayment of tax debts. c. The request of the Greek Improvements Agency (OEVEL) to restore the legal form of the non-profit-making nature of the improvements agencies. To the Ministries of Economics and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the press release of the Board of Directors of the Association of Workers of the Neo Syros Shipyard on 20-4-2015, which denounces the non-payment of salaries of previous years to its employees. To the Ministries of Finance, State and State of Anti-corruption regarding the publication of the newspaper PARAPOLITICA, on 6-6-2015, on ‘green loans to a major shareholder of a channel’. To the Ministries of Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and State regarding the publication of the newspaper “PARAPOLICA” on 6-6-2015, on the judiciary “sharing” businessman to avoid paying the television frequency tax. To the Ministries of Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerned with the request of the Achaea Chamber to suspend the payment of payments of firefighting borrowers in Achaia and other areas that received loans guaranteed by the public sector and the prolongation of their repayment period. To the Ministries of Economic, Home and Administrative Reconstruction concerning the request of a citizen denouncing malicious acts against the public by individuals contained in a document attached to that reference. To the Ministries of Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and regarding the publication of the newspaper "PARAPOLIKA", on 6-6-2015, on the undue delay of a judicial inquiry into the case of false warranty letters of last name - entrepreneur. To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, regarding the publication of the newspaper "ACROPOLIS", on 14-6-2015, which denounces a scandal from the sale of real estate by the public. To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy regarding the publication of the newspaper "AGRICULTURAL FONI", on 19-6-2015, which refers to the old request for agricultural allowances and the flooding shield in the area of Serres. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the publication of the newspaper “The DURATION” on 27-28-6-2015, which highlights the delay in the start of the work of the AEK Stadium and the establishment of the necessary prior to the start of the work of the Environment Study Committee. To the Ministries of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance regarding the publication of the newspaper “GREATIC FONI” on June 19, 2015, which highlights mistakes in the management of the pastures by the Federation of Animal Associations of Thessaly. To the Ministries of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on 27 June 2015, on the debts and costs of PPC’s PPC electricity purchase and oligopoly. To the Ministry of State against Corruption regarding the publication of the newspaper "The editors' Journal" on 6 July 2015, which denounces the transfer of a large amount of money abroad from political following the decision to impose capital control. To the Ministries of State and Finance on the Union of Private Television Techniques Association, which condemns the behaviour of a Member of Parliament to private channels technicians. To the Ministries of State for the Coordination of Government Work and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction on the publication of the newspaper "THONI" on 21 June 2015, which denounces wastes of the previous leadership of the General Press Secretariat. To the Ministry of Health concerning: a. The request of the Polyvalent Regional Medical Centre for the filling of medical staff, logistics and medical consumables in the Municipality of Kea. b. The publication of the "GOME" newspaper on June 24, 2015, which denounces the subscribing of the "Saint Andreas" Hospital of Patras. To the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the request of a Judiciary curator of Patras for the equal award of professional material by the Centres for the Acquisition of Insurance Contributions (KEOs) to the judiciary. SYRIZA Member Alexandros Meikopoulou presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the request by the Agricultural Cooperative of Pelion - Northern Sporades for the continued operation of the Cooperative and its inclusion in a Grant Programme of its permanent staff with a grant of employers' contributions for the maintenance of their jobs. To the Ministry of Finance concerning the protest by the Board of Directors of the Technical Chamber of Greece (TEC) on the malfunctions and problems arising following the change in the structure of the services of the Public Property and the deterioration of the Land Services in the Private Offices of the Public Property by Prefecture, which fall under the Directorates of the Public Property of the Regions, following the implementation of Presidential Decree 111/2014. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Stavros Tassos, Diamanto Manolakos and Emmanouil Synthraki have submitted a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, in which the Mayor of Ikaria highlights the serious problem of the lack of fuel that the municipality is facing and calls for direct state intervention by means of emergency planning to ensure the supply of fuel at least, for the Nativelgian services of the islands. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Christos Katsotis, Athanasios Vardalis, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Stavros Tassos and Emmanouil Syntrakis have submitted a report to the Ministry of Finance with which the Association of Pensioners former ECO and Bankers requests the immediate payment of all the amount of their pension for each month. MEP: Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy regarding the request of the Mayor of Western Achaea for the possibility of implementing public projects beyond the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance regarding the publication of the newspaper “GROATI” on 19 June 2015, which refers to the overtaxation of agricultural income and the abolition of special tax exemptions. To the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Health regarding the publication of the newspaper ‘RIZOPASITIS’ on 8 July 2015, which refers to requests from the Single Parents and Friends Association (SMEs) on matters relating to the support of small and medium-sized enterprises in health care, as well as the regular payment of their remuneration and allowances. To the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerned with the letter of a citizen requesting employment security under the guarantee of the State. To the Ministries of Economic and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the letter of a citizen requesting the lifting of the retroactive effect of the new pension law. To the Ministries of Finance, State and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the publication of the newspaper “PARAPOLICA”, on 11-7-2015, on the ‘SECRET’, which refers to the conclusion of the guarantee scheme and the economic conditions for the purchase of television frequency. To the ministries of Economic and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the publication of the newspaper “PARAPOLICA” on 11-7-2015, on 11-7-2015, on the opening of the accumulation of unpaid debts from loans to former government parties. To the Ministries of State and Finance regarding the publication of the newspaper “AKROPOLI” on 8-7-2015 and on 9-7-2015, which highlights the need to monitor suspected large amount of money transferred to bank accounts abroad. The Ministry of Finance and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the letter of a citizen requesting the withdrawal of the retroactive effect of Article 29 of the current pension law. To the Ministry of Finance concerning: a. the publication of the newspaper ‘ENTERNATIONAL TYPE’ on 8-7-2015, which refers to a possible export of funds abroad during the period of validity of the capital control. b. the publication of the newspaper ‘THRONIKA’ on 27-6-2015, which relates to the request of the Law Association of Ithaca and Kefalonia to exempt the owners of the Ithaki Islands and Kefalonia. c. letters from the Pan-Hellenic Association of Foreign Language Teachers and the Association of Foreign Language Center Owners of the Achaea Prefecture, requesting the suspension of VAT of 23% on foreign language teaching services. To the Ministry of Health concerning: a. the card of the Patras Medical Association requesting the immediate repayment of the medical practitioners to the EEAS, in order to avoid the inability to serve the insured. b. the publication of the newspaper “GOMAN” on 1-7-2015, which highlights the problem of the EKAV of Western Greece with regard to the shortages of ambulances in fuel and the shortcomings in medicinal products in the Achaea region. c. the publication of the newspaper “GOME”, on 4-7-2015, on the conditions under which hospitals were requested from unemployed parents for the hospitalisation of their sick child at the “Carmandanium” Hospital. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs concerning: a. The press release of the Hellenic Supreme Confederation, which also requires membership of its federation to be subject to the exceptions of the latter. 4132/2015 for relocations. b. the request of the Association of Industries - Teachers with Postgraduate or Doctoral Studies in Special Education and School Psychology to provide professional rights for teachers with postgraduate studies in Special Education. To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the Internal and Administrative Reconstruction and Culture, Education and Religion, on the letter from the Panhellenic Association of Geographical Enterprises of Greene, denounces the contract procedure for deforestation of the environment by the National Centre for Natural Sciences "DIMOCRITOS". To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, State to combat corruption and finance for the publication of the newspaper “The DISCLOSURE”, which highlights the need for research into the activities of the management of the company “ELLENIC PETRELAY” (ELPE). To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on 12-7-2015, which denounces the deception of the Greek State in relation to the taking up of a contract in the port of Piraeus. To the Ministry of State, concerning: a. the publication of the newspaper ‘HAYSH’, on 2-7-2015, which discloses the complaints of a public television misuse report. b. the publication of the website ‘Olympia.gr’ on 19-7-2015 on the verification or denunciation and comment on the information ‘noting that the current conflict provides support and facilities at the television station of Mr Alafouzou’. To the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on the publication of the newspaper "TOFON" on 14-6-2015, on the search for the reasons for the emergence of a problem in relations between Greece and Russia since the non-authorisation of the Russian sub-consulated Aleksandroupolis. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the letter of a citizen requesting action on account of the overcompensation of illegal immigrants on the island of Lesvos. To the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning: a. the publication of the newspaper ‘Parapolistics’ on 3-7-2015, which highlights the need to investigate dossiers of major oil companies. b. the publication of the newspaper ‘Parapolistica’ on 11-7-2015 in the ‘Secret’, which highlights the need to investigate pending case-law cases of a small share of the OPCW.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-24-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Monday 27 July 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Ilias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the protection and promotion of the Kaiafa lake area. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis on the extension and conclusion of new individual clean-up contracts in the public sector under number 437/21-7-2015. 3. The question asked by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the interruption of water supply of the Stanou Community of the Municipality of Aristotle Halkidiki. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Kozani of New Democracy Mr George Kasapidis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the subsistence problem facing the section of the Veterinary Service of the Regional Unit of Kosanis. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 427/14-7-2015 by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandra Chanaka to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the performance of the premises of the Asmakopoulou camp and the airport of Amydaleon Kavala in local government. 3. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the role of TIPED in the utilization of Greek. 4. The question by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Maria Kanellopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the reintroduction of the law on the single price of the book. 5. Eleftherios Aegenakis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr. Eleftherios Aygenakis, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, asked the Member of Parliament about the completion of the work of the Heraklion - Mesara road network. 6. The Question No 412-7-2015 by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Ilias Kamaterou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the saturated tourist areas and inequalities in development. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No. 395/29-6-2015 of the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nicholas Kotzias during his visit to Skopje on 24-6-2015. 8. The Question No 391/29-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the work of the ERGOSE Tunnel. 9. The Question No 401/30-6-2015 by MP Rethymnon of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of National Defence on the requirements of lenders for cuts in expenditure in the Armed Forces. 10. The Question No 377/23-6-2015 by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the progress of important infrastructure projects in Messinia such as the Good Water-Tsakonia projects and the perimeter of Kalamata "Kalamata - Rizzomylos". 11. The Question No 356/16-6-2015 by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the compulsory registration of discounts and other possible suppliers' benefits to the supermarkets. 12. The question by No. 219/14-5-2015 is a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the provocative action of Skopje in Florina. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 234/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on bilateral relations with the neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. 14. Observed. The question by No. 168/28-4-2015 of MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers regarding the assignment of our name to the Skopje. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Elias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "AYDINLIK" that Turkey proceeded to a committee for the vindication of sixteen Greek islands. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the announcement of the topical and urgent questions, which will not be discussed because of the invasion of the respondents to come here to answer. These topical questions will be reprogrammed for discussion on the following Friday 31 July 2015 and are the following: The first under number 421/7-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Messinia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of State, regarding the respect of electoral law by private channels, which will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question under number 404/30-6-2015 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the extension of natural gas networks and pipelines in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace, which will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The third, with number 398/30-6-2015, timely question for the first cycle of MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the recruitment of necessary personnel at “PPC S.A.”, which will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The fourth under number 293/2-2015 topical question for the first cycle of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cashiaris to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties, which will also not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-24-S1-commons.u4	With the consent of the House at 10.37 minutes the sitting is closed for Monday 27 July 2015 at 18.00 on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
