ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Two topical questions will be discussed to Mr Tsironi. We begin with our first question with number 329/9-6-2015, the first question of the new Republic MP, Eleftherios Augiakis, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the issues of the National Land register. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in Greece the most recent attempt to draw up a National Stock Exchange dates back to 1995. Since 2008, competitive procedures have been launched after many years of delays. However, in recent years there have been severe delays and oligopoies since the freezing of the reserves of the company ‘National Register S.A.’. I would like to point out that, with the full implementation of the institution, the security of transactions in real estate for public and private individuals will be established, while its absence creates problems in the country's development and economic progress. Minister, we have made a commitment by now that 2020 will have completed the activity of the Land register. According to the company’s data, the minimum time required from the signature of the delegation until completion is four to five years. Therefore, by the end of 2015 at the latest, all studies should have been compatible. Since the 11B KTEMA notice, which mainly covers areas of central Macedonia, pre-contractual monitoring has been completed, but only five of the twelve studies have been launched again. The same is true in the notice 11A, where the conventions have not gone ahead. With regard to the digitisation of the Dodecanese Land register, a project that was part of the Second Community Support Framework, while the project has begun, in recent months, the scanning of the archives has stopped. The “National Register and Mapping S.A.” in 2013 opened a competition for the rest of the country with a total budget of 572,000 euros. The competitive process of the tendering procedure proceeded quickly but no contract was awarded due to a lack of funding. Minister, at the same time the forest maps remain enslaved. Validation of forest maps is considered as a prerequisite for the Register, as realisation cannot be completed if the forest land is not demarcated. To date, forest maps have been validated, which account for only 0.56% of the Greek territory, while those posted account for only 1.2%. So I ask you: What about the pending tenders for the realisation contracts in progress, but has they not been guaranteed to be financed? Will you return, when and how - and if you know anything about it - the money that you committed before months? What are the intentions, what is the government's policy to promote forest maps, the training and ratification of which remain entrenched due to inertia? One more thing, Minister, I want to tell you. On your visit to Heraklion yesterday, on the occasion of the Greek conference on the management of waste in Hersonissos, you met with representatives of the Association of Estates Heraklion, with the presence of the Mayor of Heraklion, Mr. Labrinos, who took you into the problem. The issue is very important and I want you to be careful about the problem. They are about three thousand owners of arbitrary buildings, which seem to increase by a great deal, which receives warnings from the building with cheeks, superb fines, since the certification of fines is decades back. None of these people said - you know that - not to pay. Besides, they're not cops. But the majority of these people are disabled, retired, multitude and third families, single parents, long-term unemployed, families below the poverty line. What they are asking is that they be subject to the regulation on the legalisation of arbitrarily, without any obligation to pay an offence and with a fine of zero. Minister, do you commit from this Step forward that you will ensure that you bring a draft law and when - if you know - that will relieve these owners of unbearable fines and surcharges and social criteria, give them the opportunity to legitimise their property with favourable regulations? What is the government's official position on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ausgeakis. The Minister has the floor, Mr Ioannis Tsironis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Mr President, I will start from the second point of view of the topical question, which was also registered, by clarifying what I said yesterday to the mayor that there was no planning for a meeting with the settlements and the seriousness of our work means that when we have meetings, it is not customary but substantive. So the presidents of these organisations, their representatives, and I promised them that there would be a serious meeting scheduled with the scientific partners, so that we could look at their problem in depth and not blame it. In this sense, it is rather inaccurate to say that the term 'I met with the occupants'. As far as arbitrary legislation is concerned, you know very well that it is a long-standing problem, due to the customer state, whose responsibility is not for the new government and this client state, which has given birth to generations of arbitrary generations, must stop there, restore public confidence in public administration and when it comes to town planning, get to the seriousness of what is required so that there is no outside building and the world can build within the rules imposed by each favoured state. Of course, we will legislate in this direction if you ask for this commitment. To go back to the substance of the question, which was the register, you referred to these dramatic delays, which of course were not caused by us. There was already the letter Haan, which cut out of the register some tens of millions of euros, precisely because of the frugality of the previous governments, and at the moment you know very well that there is a race, not only to save this money from the previous NSRF, which is ready to be given, but there is also a race of roads and negotiation since we entered into with the institutions, so that we can also earn money in the new NSRF. As far as the money that is currently available as a whole is concerned, the register, which exceeds EUR 200 million, has not been committed for any reason. It is completely inaccurate that they have been bound by any government and for any other reason. Of this money, the EUR 54,227,322,22 to private banks, as it was, in deadlines before. And the 139 million, which are located in the Bank of Greece - and I think you will agree that they are more secure in the Bank of Greece institutionalised than any other private bank, without wanting to underestimate private banks - are readily available for the needs of the Stock Exchange and in terms that are more favourable than the previous ones, because for the amounts of order we know about the 3 or 4 million we have on a regular basis, which were not, because they were in three months, six months and annual deposits, which we stopped by agreement of the banks without penalties, and even two days' notice. So, not only did we not reduce liquidity, but we will increase it. We also have EUR 10 million in addition, which is in a visual account, that is to say in current transactions. Therefore, for no reason is there a question of committing any amounts and that delays the project. For the big competition of 500 million, to which you referred, you know very well that the opinion of the previous administration was that there were very small discounts and some projects had to be re-examined, because it was largely at the expense of the Greek public. That was the reason why we were looking back at the competitions, not with our own intention, but because we received this decision. So it has nothing to do with one issue of liquidity with the other. You know very well - I have said it from this Step repeatedly - that our Forestry was a consistent programming position that should have taken precedence. It was for your days that the tariff was not prioritised. It has always been a permanent position of all parties supporting the government that the logbook should be preceded and that is what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u6	I will have a word on the matter of settlements, since you have started from this point of view, Minister. So since you are extremely ready, as I hear, as I understand you, and as you are aware of the issues of the Ministry, to define a meeting place, meeting time and outline regarding the issue of Heraklion's settlements and many other major cities. Of course you also met with a delegation and the mayor. As far as the register is concerned, Minister, you have not caused it, but you are making it worse. The issue of the register, I beg your pardon, is a matter of course with deep roots. He hears in the name of PASOK during Laliotis period. But the way you handle it, by focusing only on financial data and banking, of course shows your efforts to hide the harsh, unfortunately. We want clear answers in terms of the register, your policy and commitments in time. Minister, I would like to point out another issue, since the question is topical, so it means that we are discussing the topicality of the issues relating to your Ministry and concerning your statements, in fact your opposition to the PPP institution and your intention to suspend all your PPP projects, thereby opening up another wound to the already bleeding economy in our country. I should like to inform you, therefore, that the implementation of projects through PPPs has been an important lever for the development of our country, especially at a time when the closeness of public investment funds made it impossible to implement major infrastructure projects. The project implementation method through PPP, Minister, is at this stage perhaps the only development tool, since it ensures the existence of private investment and guarantees the existence of funding for the implementation of projects that are critical and absolutely necessary for the Greek economy and society, for example transport, public health, waste management, energy, cultural projects, etc. Your policy, Minister, and I do not know whether it is your own policy or the official position of the government, for the suspension of all procedures, is moving in the wrong direction, even putting a stop to the few breaths of entrepreneurship and private funding left in our country. Without these, the implementation of large public projects becomes a political document without documentation, without planning, planning and without funding. The government continues, clinging to ideological perceptions of the past - you unfortunately do it systematically - to plunge itself into actions resulting in the suspension of large public infrastructure projects, the maintenance of low growth rates and the return to recession. Immediately, Minister, you too must realise that the future of the projects is profitable for the state concessions and PPP projects. We cannot expect infrastructure projects only from the public money that is being sought. The 2014-2020 EPA brings a significant amount of 4.2 billion for infrastructure projects and environment, but it cannot cover with anything - and you know it well - the needs for important infrastructure in the next period, not even the completion of projects that have advanced to 80% and 90%, and I have many examples throughout Greece to tell you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Minister, the institution of concessions, is a strategic sector for our country and have their own autonomous, self-supporting dynamics. It is a lever within the lever of development and creates symmetrical development in the country, with many beneficial consequences, economic, spatial, social and cultural. Finally, stop with your statements and policy to return our country to the 1950s. One more thing. You have recently presented the new National Waste Management Plan which has been consulted. The major problem with the National Waste Management Plan is that the ecological rhetoric - in all respects - is fragmented, mixed with the logic of SYRIZA "all belongs to the public", with the ex post intervention in an existing text, ignoring reality and with strong ideological elements. The ECHR, Minister, is not a political manifesto of principles and positions. It is an institutional tool which our country must shape and exploit without idealism and without any prejudice. Environment and development are concepts of interrelated and not mutually exclusive. Minister, one last word. Yesterday you were in Heraklion at the conference on the regional planning of the Region of Crete for waste and you even took a positive position at the start. You described the design of the Region of Crete as exemplary and model. On the other hand, however, you have announced changes without saying anything specific, as you do. Let me remind you, Mr Minister, that this design of the Region of Crete was voted unanimously - that is what you want to change but you do not say what you will do - by the Regional Council, if that is what something tells you. It is time for funds to be used and for the projects envisaged in this plan finally to be launched. I put these in your mind, because I understand your concern to present a government project, but not by abolishing, leveling up, stopping works, developments and decisions. It is important that you do government work and, where you need it, you will find us sick in this effort, if you improve, modernise, bring something new, but an integrated and documented proposal. "I stop to stop and justify my role as Minister", I'm sorry, but it's not modern politics, it doesn't help the country in this critical political period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr Ausgeakis. Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u8	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u9	Here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr Augias, for your remarks, it is clear that you are probably in agreement with me on the issues of the register, which was the essence of the timely question, that there is no intention of delaying or of having committed reserves, nor is there any delay due to a lack of resources, of course, which, with shortcomings in the previous administration, are in danger of being lost by European programmes but also there, we are giving the battle and I am optimistic that we will win it. So I leave this matter and go to all the other things you mentioned. I say again that I do not think - I would blame it - that there was a meeting of occupants. What has happened has been a two-minute meeting with the presidents, which has been explained why a serious meeting must take place, which will naturally take place in the near future. Perhaps next week, depending on my programme, or the aftermath - we are talking about these dates - because we really have no intention of beating ourselves on citizens' problems. And I'm going back to the other part of your secondary, which is about the new National Waste Management Plan. I do not know why there is misinterpretation or rather ignorance of information. We have no intention at all of stopping works that are important and beneficial to the public interest. I have not spoken on such terms as you have said about the regional project in Crete, but indeed what I have said - to say as I say it - is a project that is very close to the new national plan. The new national plan is not, as you have said, a summation between ecological sensitivities and SYRIZA programme. First of all, I do not understand where you come from. It is a coherent plan, which speaks for the first time in this country, for the circular economy, which you, as government, had most of it in the unclaimed. Another thing is the cyclical economy and another linear economy, giving resources to the Greek people, public resources, to contractors. Another misunderstanding, which has obviously been taking place for decades, is that this regime is called entrepreneurship and private initiative - and I call it a status! - a state-owned interlocutor between a corrupt public administration and entrepreneurs who did not want to attempt at risk and simply defy the resources of the Greek people. The PPPs you are referring to and which we are criticising and reviewing - that is the term used, we are reviewing - are some types of businesses that double the cost for the citizen in terms of costs for tone. We're talking about waste. Moreover, they overspecify the projects. Is it possible, for example, for the Greek people and the European citizen to pay a hundred thousand tons of work, while in this region, today without any prevention, a hundred and fifteen thousand tonnes of waste is produced? Is it possible, therefore, to prevent, if re-use, the sorting at source and impairment of this sum of fifteen thousand tonnes - unless you imagine that we should never divest it and continue to give raw materials to contractors - where will tons be found to make this grand work of fifty thousand tonnes, with more than EUR 90 tons of the cost and with guaranteed quantities that will never be found?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u11	Which district are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u12	In a particular region, the PPP has been signed at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u13	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u14	In the region of Western Macedonia, I'm telling you the numbers in particular. We are asking for it at the moment, obviously, as a government, because it must be signed, but in other regions, things are even worse. We ask the mayors and the mayors are with us. We ask them "Tell us, in the Peloponnese, in eastern Macedonia and Thrace, will you guarantee these quantities?" And they call themselves 'no such money can be given, nor can we ensure'. So leave the development project rhetoric. It's not that thing about entrepreneurship, it's not called entrepreneurship, it's not what it's called anywhere on the planet. Entrepreneurship without risk-free public funds is not called entrepreneurship. It's just that entrepreneurship is being baptized for specific customer interests, and I'm very clear about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Ausgeus, would you like a minute? The Minister was somewhat intense and personal in his speech. You want to say a word? And then the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I won't abuse the right you give me. I'll just say that. Minister, I understand your anger, because in fact the mayors, the self-government actors, are opposed to what you say. They don't agree, they don't consent. In the majority of all you have referred to at this time, they have been opposed to arguments in particular. I didn't get that out of my head. So I say to you that just a few days ago at the Technical Chamber, at a specific meeting on the issue at issue, you referred to the abolition of all PPPs and then you began to recall, unfold and "strong" your words. That is why I am telling you, and please, that is why we are here to know what your intention is. And if you do not intend - which we understand, it is obvious - and if you do not have a strategy - which we still understand - here we are, we have good intentions and want to help with government work and, in particular, environmental issues. The environment doesn't belong to anyone. And don't you expect, like many previous ministers of any party colour, that the Greek people remember their "stamp" to some important environmental work that has been done in previous years. Let us eliminate this stress of the seal and see how we really are all concerned and of real concern for our country and especially for the environment, we will be helping in this direction. No euro should go lost, whether it is national euros or European euros. For us, it is the euro that needs to be exploited in the best possible way. In this process and logic we want to help, but please very clearly, in your mind, your strategy and we are here to discuss it. We have good intentions and not to close down everything that's important that's going to happen. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u17	He was creative and constructive with tritology. Say it yourself, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u18	Thank you really. I think we're starting to get this straight. If you really know a mayor who wants to show up...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u19	Lots of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u20	Well, a lot of people. If anyone wants to manifest his opposition to the new national planning, which really gives the resources and tools to the municipalities to reduce their waste and save our fellow citizens from all this atrocity, pay to throw valuable resources, if you know such a mayor, tell me to speak to him. My office's open. because I have spoken with dozens of mayors in the last few days and only positive comments I have heard. However, there may be some disagreement. Especially in Crete were comments particularly positive, but let's say that that's probably where people are closer to our mindset. But it could be from any area. I have spoken with specific figures, Mr Metten, and I have explained very well, because these ultradimensional PPPs have so high costs. I mentioned numbers in particular. We are talking about more than EUR 90 per tonne, when in our plan, EUR 34-35 per tonne, it is considered a great price. We are also talking about prevention. If this thing does not tell you anything, that is to say, stop producing so much waste and turning the products into the circular economy, if you consider this to be my ecological idealism that should not be the case and find something else, we see that with this at least - and with Mr Maur speaking from the European Union - people are very excited about it. Finally, we are told that Greece is turning towards the cyclical economy. That's our direction. From that point on, here we are well placed in the individual plans of each municipality and of course in the individual plans of each region to see details - detail, work - work, what we will do to reduce waste production.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u21	You saw it, the Minister knows it. You got the answer. The dialogue was a good and constructive one. We're on. The first question will be discussed under number 335/9-6-2015 of the Second Group of Members of Parliament II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the re-establishment of the Institute for Geological and Mining Research (IGME). The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. In 2011, the IGM merged with the National Centre for the Environment and Sustainable Development, effectively leading to its valuation - and we are talking about a unique institute - with a view, of course, to dissolving it, since the aim was to facilitate the operation of the large amount of capital from the exploitation of the mineral wealth and the other rich sources of the country. To this end, there were hundreds of thirty reserves and, of course, drastic cuts in the EGF budget, both to cover their wages and operating needs. Thus, of course, it was best served by the objective that research and other objects should be given to companies, contractors and individuals and that their work should not be carried out on the basis of research and scientific standards. The parties that make up the current government, as a force of opposition and opposition as a whole, had opposed this policy and even promised the re-establishment of the HGM as a research body of the mineral wealth. But today there is a very long delay. Although it is necessary to reconstitute the IGM, the signatures in the joint ministerial decision are too late and for six months there is virtually no administration in the IGM. Workers are protesting. They point out that there are continually obstacles to legal technotechnical involvement, that there is deliberate blockage and that the lack of administration has serious consequences for the development of their research work. At the moment, the signatures of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Ms Valvaani, but the delay may continue. It's been six months without command. We are asking - and this is the point, if you will, the timely question - to tell us what measures are to be taken so that this joint ministerial decision can be concluded - and, after all, you were committed by 4 February - and to the re-establishment of the EGMM by appointing the administration for its operation and development, that is, what the country needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President, for your question, because we share that concern. The merger of EGM with the National Centre for Environment and Sustainable Development, the EMCDDA, was indeed an act of memorial attack by the IGM, as you quite rightly refer to your question. But, if the IGM hit, the EMCDDA literally dissolved. I would remind you that the ESDP is precisely the body that can, from the state's point of view of serious and scientific adequacy, as it has done up to the merger, to run the very important issue of the quality of the atmosphere in Greece and to develop a strategy that today, in view of the Paris Conference, is urgent. So, the re-establishment of the IGM and of the EMCDDA, was from the first moment not only the will of both co-responsibility - because one part is mine and the other is Minister Lafazan - but it was truly the reluctance of both sides to become both institutions again as they were before their merging. The reasons why this delay has been at the moment are reasons why they are not dependent on our Ministry. They have to do clearly with the Memorandum of Understanding as to whether any no longer introduced body has to have a budget that does not impose any burden on the Greek State. There, obviously, has been a very great difficulty. This difficulty has been overcome. It has been signed by us, by our ministry, by the CIA, and is of course in the Ministry of Finance. It came back a few weeks ago with some corrections, precisely in this direction, that we should not have problems and humiliations in the country's critical battle, not to have stumbling blocks and pretexts on the part of the institutions, so that we do not have the problem. He returned from the Treasury with some minor corrections so that we don't have any such problems. From us, they were accepted. Right now he's in the Treasury. So, it's gone from us. We believe within the next few days that this will end, because we fully share your anxiety, because it is our agony too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u26	Mr Minister, you said that it was an act of a memorial dissolution, both of the EBRD and of the EBRD. They're not competitive, they're violent parallels. Of course, if the Government had accepted the JRC's proposal for a law on the abolition of the memoranda, which is about five months behind, the problem would have been solved. What's there now? When there is an amendment to a bill that takes five and six signatures, they gather in half an hour. Here, suddenly there are five signatures. The three are together. And there's a horrifying delay, which isn't just a CIA, it's that it doesn't have management, it doesn't work. Look at what impact it has from there. There are programmes under way that are financed by the NSRP, and it is the last year of their funding. Without command, they don't go any further. It's not that they won't complete, it's that there's a lot of risks asking for the money they've already used. When the FYROM was signed by you - I mean by Mr Lafazanis and by you, Minister, on May 7, the union came out and said that after the FYROM was signed by Lafazani and Chironi, the first step was finally taken. And he called for the new administration, which the Minister has notified immediately, to be appointed in order to ensure that no more time is lost. Right now, today that we're talking about, do you know what's there? I guess you've been informed. Unanimously, the workers' union denounces the Institute's re-establishment policy and is addressed to the Prime Minister. Today they have a homogeneous gathering. This delay cannot even justify it. In fact, by having this delay in operation, they put all the burden on you. And they're right. Why? Who are the prime ministers? And when we say speeders, so that the simple world can understand us, we mean the one with the coordination. You're bored with that responsibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What are we asking you to do - and be an answer, if you like, to the workers? We're asking for a timeline. By next week the joint ministerial decision has been signed in full, the new administration has been appointed and the planning for the upgrading of both institutions has been put in place, as the workers' union calls for. We may be focusing on the IGM, but we mean both institutions. Therefore, we expect you to have a concrete timetable of immediate and rapid implementation, upgrading and both the ESDP and the IMO.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. You were able to talk another way, because you were saying interesting things. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. Of course, we are now going to areas that are not exactly my responsibility, because it is the responsibility, as you quite rightly said, of the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy. As far as I know, however, the trade union - I do not blame them, perhaps because, in fact, there is too much suspicion about public administration - when I personally proposed setting up a temporary board of directors of choice, which is exactly what the next one will be, which will also be of the FGM, and when it is separated by good, creates a second board of directors for the ESDP, workers, fearing that such appointment of a temporary board of directors will lead the issue to the bells, had preferred to sign the FGM and then define both boards. My proposal was what you're saying. Let the board of directors have been appointed, the new one, which would continue as the board of directors of an institute, the HEME. From there on, apparently, they too thought they would push a little more to make it quicker. Today we've arrived anyway that the signature from day to day is coming in. So I think we'll finally all be satisfied over the years. I am optimistic that there will be no risk of money being lost really, which, as you say, is not lost, because there has been no acceleration but because the administrative board has been widowed since December. So I believe that this will end immediately, although I tell you how, because it is no longer in our ministry. But, as you say, it's a matter of days for signatures to come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Manolakou, would you like to answer for one of the PASOK Members?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u30	Just, Mr President and Minister, I give you the trade union communication yesterday to take it into account. I'm tabling it in the Minutes. I also hope, Mr President, that the 'direct' will be next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u31	We want it more than you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u32	Until the questioners are gathered - we already see Mrs Christophilopoulou growing up...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u34	Here, Mrs Catrivanu, you have the floor to tell us what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u35	Because we've never seen a timely question talking to anyone who wants to go beyond a defined team...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u36	It's planned to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u37	You'll give us a direction...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u38	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u39	Will you give us a direction as to how we will be holding the meeting today?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u40	It is also because of my own Presidency and also because of the decision of the Conference. Not a word. After all, the President said so. So until the Members are gathered, we will read out the timely questions to which the debate has been cancelled. The second question, under number 334/9-6-2015, of the first cycle of the MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the compensation of farmers of the Ilias Prefecture for damages suffered by their crops from the intense weather phenomena, is not discussed as a result of the Minister's obstruction. The second question under number 293/2-2015, the second time-limited question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassiri to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. Therefore, the third question under number 178/4-5-2015, the second timely question by the Member of the Achaias Parliamentary of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning the appeal to the judiciary of television stations for the decisions of the Minister of State, on the basis of which they were imposed retroactive frequency-use charges, is not discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, with reference to today's timely questions that have been cancelled, the topical and urgent debate has been concluded. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 22 June 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1.H under number 356/16-6-2015 a topical question by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the compulsory registration of discounts and other benefits in the supermark purchase invoices. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 347/15-6-2015 by the Deputy Minister of Attica of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the enormous omissions of the factory's fire in Aspropyrgos. 3. The Question No 353/15-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Michael Arvanitis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the violations of the Constitution and the laws by the Mayor of Patras. 4. The 340/11-6-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Christina Tachiaou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, about the residual operation of regional airports and the direct impact on tourism. 5. The 361/16-6-2015 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on measures to restore intra-cyclical maritime communication. 6. The Question No 341/12-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the projects of "ERGOSE". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chryssolou Katsavras - Siloropoulou to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the use of water resources in the Plastira and Sokovos lakes. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 348/15-6-2015 by MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr Panagiotis (South) Mitaraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, on the adoption of a joint Ministerial Decision (CYA) on the settlement of outstanding issues of the Municipal Wastewater Restoration Operation of Chios (DYAN). 3. The 324/9-6-2015 topical question by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Finance, on smuggling of tobacco. 4. The Question No 325/9-6-2015 by the Deputy Minister of Attica of New Democracy Mr Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the completion of the project on the "MOREA" motorway. 5. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Mr Anastasios PKKISKISKIS to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the completion of the vertical Egnatia Road in Evros. 6. The 319/8-6-2015 topical question by MP Aitolakarannia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the operation of a new toll station in the bypass of Agrinio. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 289/29-5-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Michael Arvanitis to the Minister of National Defence, concerning Turkish air space violations and Greek territorial waters. 8. The question by No. 219/14-5-2015 is a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the provocative action of Skopje in Florina. 9. The 234/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on bilateral relations with neighbouring countries and the proclamation of the Greek exclusive economic zone. 10. The question by No. 168/28-4-2015 of MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers regarding the assignment of our name to the Skopje. 11. The 320/8-6-2015 topical question by the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Artemios Mathaiopoulos to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Health, on the problems posed by the release of illegal immigrants from detention centres. 12. The Question No 316/8-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure that are incompatible with human rights. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under number 287/29-5-2015, a topical question by MEP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of National Defence, on the reopening of the ElektrochaniKANIC KYPE plant, its integration into the administrative structure of the Ministry of National Defence and the reopening of the local economy. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The question by number 2058-27-2015 of the fourth Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Prime Minister of the New Republic of Athens Nikita Kaklamani to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning measures to address the problems arising from the maintenance of the OSCE buses. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 1642/8-4-2015 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the procedure for the authorisation of outdoor parking in the historic centre of Athens. 3. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Elias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "AYDINLIK" that Turkey proceeded to a committee for the vindication of sixteen Greek islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The question will be discussed by PASOK MPs, Evangelos Venizelos, Friday, Christophilopoulos, Dimitrios Kremastinos, George Arvanitides, Fotinis Gennimatas, Ioannis Drivelegas, Vassilios Koutsoukos, Odysseas Constantinopoulou, Dimitrios Konstantinopoulos, Andreas Lovertou, Konstantinos Scandalides and Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Independent violence - Actions to eliminate the phenomenon”. As decided in the Conference of Presidents on a proposal from the President of Parliament, the debate will take place in accordance with Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the general discussion on the question. As laid down in Rule 137(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, if the debate is to be generalised, it shall be held in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of the previous Rule, namely Rule 136 of the Rules of Procedure, for the Members of Parliament, and Article 97(1) to (3) for the Ministers, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and their alternates, and shall continue with the speeches of those who have been on the list until the end of the speeches of the questioners, with a speech of five minutes each. The generalised debate shall be concluded by a maximum of two meetings, as stated in the article. Paragraph 2 of Rule 136 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which deals with the speaking time of Members, states that: In the case of a debate of more than one question on the same subject signed by Members of the same or different parliamentary groups, the Member who sign each question speaks for ten minutes of each hour, the next four signatories shall speak for five minutes of each question, with a rotation of the speakers and the next two in turn signatories of each question, speak for three minutes of each hour, with a rotation of the speakers. Secondary time is five minutes of the hour for the first signatory to each question, three minutes of the hour for each of the next four who sign each question and two minutes of the hour, for each of the next two. Therefore, any Member who wishes to take the floor shall register with the electronic system until the end of the speech of the last Member of Parliament. We must give the floor now to Mrs Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative on generalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u43	Do you have anything to appeal to me, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, we obviously have no objection to this generalisation. After all, it was an intervention in Parliament's Rules of Procedure that the question should be asked in this Chamber, when the government is asked in a timely manner, to allow other political formations to be placed. It was a very good intervention to amend the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, Mr President, it is not possible as a democratic party to say 'no' to a generalised debate on such an interesting subject. However, Mr President, I have to say - and I ask you to inform me - that the procedure of this very strong parliamentary control, namely, in the form of the timely question, is not very common in a very dangerous and critical phase for Greece. I want you to tell me whether timely questions are being put by Members of Parliament and whether they are being discussed. If I do not get the information I have, we do not often have such a debate in this House. Is it because the book in question has been closed for too many months? Is it because there are no timely questions from the parties, by Members? Is it because of the fact that there is a special arrangement for discussing the current questions? As we are very pleased and very pleased that this debate will be held today, we need that information, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u45	Timely questions have been tabled at least five, Mr Loverdos, and are scheduled to be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u46	How many have been discussed so far?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u47	One of the new republics has already been discussed, and I think that soon, at the last conference and the last conference this afternoon, it has been scheduled again. So I'm glad to be...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I would like to add one more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u49	You want the floor? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. Can you tell me the criterion of generalization? For us generalization is desirable, and whenever that is the case, we will say yes. Can you tell me why, in the previous time-consuming question from the New Democracy, which concerned public works - if I have been well informed - the debate has not been generalised and is being generalised in today's debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u51	Mr Loverdos, the President-in-Office's proposal was unanimously accepted at the last Conference of Presidents. It may have been suggested by a party MEP. Those present, me and everyone, decided unanimously to generalize. So this is where he came in as generalized. You understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u52	Excellent. That's right. But what is the rule, Mr President? What's the rule?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u53	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Petrakos, please. Finish, Mr. Loverdo. You're comfortable with time. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u55	For it to be clear once and for the entire period of this House and for every next period. The generalisation of the debate - which, I say again, was an amendment to the Rules of Procedure - is very positive. Because the topical question concerns major issues and never, and in no case, is the question of each time the government and the party which I ask is not a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u56	The matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u57	Generalisation is an excellent measure, but the National Delegation must know what the measure is. Because public works with the negative deflection that has taken things, and these are a very big issue that determines the Gross Domestic Product and the unemployment rate. We need to know, because all the issues are major presumptions, what the criterion is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u58	So, you who should be pleased that your own initiative will take a general character and a debate, we are'request'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u59	On the contrary! The opposite is true. I wonder why you don't understand it. The opposite is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u60	I wanted to say it's a contradiction in itself, because we...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u61	No, you're wrong. Just the opposite. We want all the debates to be generalised and because we have a specific dual treatment, to the best of all, for the first time in time, I want to know our criterion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u62	So, on the occasion of your own, you ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u63	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Petrako, let me finish. The tensions, the opportuneness, the stubbornness of the phenomenon that has led you to present the question are the reasons why we have led the Conference to decide to acquire...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u66	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Petrakos, go ahead and then Mr. Theocharis will speak. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u68	I think that, Mr President, if I may, it is much simpler. A proposal was made by the Potami colleagues at the Conference of Presidents, because they too had tabled a topical question, to generalize the debate. No proposal was made by any other party at the Conference of Presidents when the New Democracy's topical question on public works was a timely question and after no proposal was made, no one thought of being generalized. It's just things. Are we trying to create a situation here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u69	No, there's no such thing. Mr. Theochari, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, it's just things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u71	It's simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u72	It is simply not so visible and transparent that the procedures of the Bureau, not yours, of the President of Parliament, are not so visible. It's very good that we know what the criterion is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u73	Mr Theocharis, who is here, can confirm that the last Conference and has recommended it, and I think he has prepared a proposal for a law. You want to say something, Mr. Theochari?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u74	When was the last conference, Mr President? And why is it on Friday night?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u75	On this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u76	It's the first time the House has worked this way. For the first time, on Mrs Constantopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u77	Finally, to understand when these issues are being discussed, who makes decisions on these issues. We cannot follow anyone's personal programme, Mr President. And please very much and I have sent you a personal letter on all these issues and I have not received an answer. Who does not respect the families of the Greek MPs, who does not respect the province's MPs, who is the one who decides in due course and according to his own programme? The Greek Parliament's programme is a programme of Greek MPs, it is a programme for all of us. It is not a programme of one who wants to get the Greek Parliament to work this weekend. Mr President, I would also like to ask the SYRIZA, the Government, to take a stand, Mr President. That's not a situation. We can't work. We don't know what dawns us every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u78	For the first time the Greek Parliament has been working so, at the will of the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u80	Just a minute to finish, Mr. Loverdo. So when some came to the House last week, the President did well and said nothing. It was fine the previous rally. Last night when they got up and came out here, a MP came out and scared them. Of course, he also went and made comments to the guardian of the House. These phenomena are democratic phenomena and I know your democratic sensitivity. I would ask you very much, then, to be done with these issues and to know when the House is working and when it is not. The House can and must work under the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u82	Today I am content with my counter-chairmanship. I don't go into any more. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for half a minute, so we can get to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u83	Of course, Mr President, I will not take any time at all. Indeed, the generalization of the question, and I would like to confirm it to my colleagues, was made at the suggestion of our own, because we also had a similar proposal for a joint committee meeting. So we think it would be a good opportunity to have a joint debate on the Bullying issue, which is also topical and important. Indeed, this decision of the Conference of Presidents has been respected, contrary to - and I denounce it - by the last Conference of Presidents to introduce the bill of citizenship, which was violated on its own and for no reason, because the President of this Parliament may have taken any other action or show. As the programme of the Conference of Presidents stumbles on one hand because it has to go to a concert - and now that the Athens Festival may have more concerts that it will want to go to Epidaurus and whenever this happens, we will be doing the Friday Conference - or as yesterday, when the Conference of Presidents did not take place because the President of the Parliament decided that he should give a press conference and show in relation to the debt. These things we denounce before the Greek people, are unacceptable and must be stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u84	You're noble. You're too strict with our President now. There's also been a major conference. You're too strict with the president. Come on, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u85	We're very relaxed. And bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u86	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. With your tolerance I will use not more than two minutes of my speech, to point out - because I am the first Member to speak and I have this honour - that yesterday, apart from the peaceful protest of thousands of citizens, we had developments in the Eurogroup. Once again the homeland is on an acne. Two days ago, we heard Prime Minister Tsipras say to his parliamentary group - unfortunately, the Prime Minister likes there addressing mainly and secondaryly outwards - that the negotiations are now starting. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for four to five months the country has been completely drained, nothing moves, the public has declared a payment stop and Mr Tsipras told his parliamentary group that the negotiations are starting now. We must therefore send a double message: a message to the outside, to creditors and partners, that the strengths of the Greek society and the Greek economy are given and finite, and the end of austerity should mean a change of policy in Europe, as we Euro-Socialists are fighting at European and national level. Secondly, that it is time for the government to govern, take its responsibilities, address the Greek people and all the parties to the democratic arch of the Parliament and finally seek national understanding, forming a national negotiating team, which PASOK has consistently asked for since 2012. In conclusion, Mr President, before I go into the matter, I will say that the very circumstances that I am now describing are being played for the country, when the House is acting as Mr Loverdos said, our parliamentary representative and as the other parliamentary representatives point out, with a Parliament which Mrs Konstantopoulou is trying to bring into its own measures and standards. This strengthens consensus, that dynamises parliamentary function and we cannot go any further. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed pleased that the debate on this topical question which we tabled at the end of March is a general one. And take note, ladies and gentlemen, of those who are going to take the floor after that: this debate takes place three months after the PASOK question was tabled. I wonder why. And I connect that, Minister, with what Mr Loverd said now. It was timely in March. Unfortunately/happily it is timely now. It is therefore timely and now, and it is important to generalize this question. It is also important, Minister - firstly, because you will hear proposals from us, and I hope that other aspects of this House - the request made by our colleagues from Potami, which we and other Members of this House have signed will have to be made. And it should be done in due course, after we hear you today what you have to tell us what we are denounced. Because, ladies and gentlemen, consensus and national agreement are not just about the major issues of Greece, but also about the issues of everyday life, of every school, of every family, of every school, of primary school, of secondary school or of the higher level of our education. The Greek society, ladies and gentlemen, three - three and a half months ago, witnessed an abominable act, an extreme example, with the death of Vangelis Giakoumakis. In order to understand the real importance of these incidents, we should remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the prosecutor a few days ago turned the prosecution into an intent homicide. That says too much. And that must concern us, not only about its vigour and its extreme example, but about how we as a Greek state are, in this case, as a Parliament, as a government and as a government, should deal with an issue that has the dimension of repressive, of course, but that the dimension of prevention - I think we will all agree in this Chamber - is just as much more and more important than the dimension of repression. The phenomenon could be routine. There may be many small Giakoumakis and little, students, students, who endure and beside them. Who are we the non-profit-making third parties - and now I speak to all of us in our capacity as citizens, not just as parliamentarians. They may be classmates, students, may be teachers, even parents who may every day see cases of intra-school violence and say "all right, let's go, let's not do anything", or do not realize how a slight act of school violence, of lighter violence than the one seen in publicity, can, by means of our tolerance - the irresponsible third parties - become particularly dangerous and not only particularly dangerous for human life, but also climate-awareness of the educational process that must be directed inside the classes, in the teaching rooms. We are therefore highlighting some of the actions that the Greek state has launched in order to contribute to the reflection, and we are reaching this point. Are we going to stop as Greeks every time there's an extreme incident running back and doing things, trying and then losing sight of our efforts? I refer to some - I think - positive examples: The function of a telephone line of support for teachers and parents. It was established a few years ago. Where is he? There's eligibility. There are European resources. Can she act as a tool, Minister? What does the ministry think? What's he going to do? The operation of a mobile intervention unit in cases of violence and intimidation. We have the online support service to students and parents. There is also - and here I would like to call for your attention, Minister - the scientific field of school and social life, as this has been included in the curriculum for the new school and primary and secondary education. Could this learning unity, not a lesson in frontal teaching, help to change perceptions, behaviours and creation of another climate? There's a proposal, it's in the curriculum. The Observatory for the Prevention of School Violence exists. Have you exploited it? We want to know, after five months, what yours are - and you were Minister when this particular extreme incident happened - perceptions of the Observatory, if you invited them, if you discussed with them and how you planned to help them. More importantly. There are the synergies of your Ministry with the Paediatric Clinical B and the Teen Health Unit and the Society of Psychosocial Support for Children and Adolescents, which have already been developed and I do not know whether you intend to continue with them. Also, as far as the prevention of online violence is concerned, there is the European Commission's SAFERINTERNET programme and synergies with the Greek Police and the excellent work that the Special Group is doing under Mr Sfakianakis. These are some examples of actions that have been implemented so far and there are others, Minister. A few days ago you announced the training programme, which I want you to tell us about. I hope that the debate on this question has been an opportunity and it would be a pleasure if that were to happen. I would ask you to give us some information in your speech. I think it is in the right direction. There have been previous training programmes. It's in the right direction. But I want to point out two dimensions. The first: As long as we work together - and we have to do so - with the European Commission and with the Second Paediatric Clinic and other bodies, it is of great importance that what is happening in the school unit and to get to the level of the school unit, we believe - that there should be a support team at each Regional Education Department, not only by school advisors, but also by psychologists, social workers, a multidisciplinary unit plant planted, I would say, within the Regional Education Department, which could come back and not only, Mr Minister, when we have incidents, but also have an advisory daily support. Because training courses may be well, but then, when the trainees leave, there is often no necessary diffusion and the necessary proliferation. We therefore believe that a network must be set up against school violence, and this network must be embraced by society. Because it is very important that municipalities, for example, contribute with their own social services, local society embrace these efforts that teachers will make. And I must tell you that there are training officials at the moment who have literally taken this issue into their hands. But it is very important that there should also be more effort for the Ministry, but also for all of us, I believe, secondly, that it is important. Finally, with your tolerance, Mr President, I should like to add the second major axis, in our view. You saw that we had the regulation that you brought to tighten the sentences in cases of violence, we voted on it. And if I remember well, ladies and gentlemen, most of them, if not all of the Parliament's wings were to vote on it. But, as in the case of school violence, in the case of sporting violence and other forms of violence, it is not the provisions of the law that we lack. It is usually - and from the way you made the nod to me, Minister, I understand that you may agree with me - how we help to implement them. So it is very important, not only to cultivate a learning climate in schools, but, of course, at the same time, there is no sense of impunity. Because when there is a sense of relaxation and impunity, then all of us non-participating third parties become partakers in the cases of school violence. Mr Minister, finally, there is one thing that we are very strongly confronted with. The curriculum, which many teachers have worked for, and have participated in evaluation experts from the field of education, as well as the Education Institute - as was formerly called - now the Institute for Education Policy - is in your drawer. These programs change how to teach. We leave the frontal teaching and go into a collaborative climate, in a climate where students and students contribute together with teachers and teachers to the creation of learning. This climate, Minister, is a climate that creates schools collaboratively, schools where the group takes many times in its hands the aberrations, which may exist in the human association in a school environment. I think that these curriculum programs will have to get them out of your drawer and see them again. I would ask you to reply, after the speeches of the other colleagues, to reply to us why you have put these courses in the drawer. Because I don't understand why you couldn't see them and turn them into them. We have too much to divide us into our policy, Minister, from counter-reforming the universities to war against 'excellence', and we have a lot of controversy in front of us if you stick to them. I would, however, urge you, on behalf of all the honourable Members, to see at least the issues of intra-school violence in cooperation with the other wings, to convene the committee that has been asked for by Potami and with which we have agreed and to see the issue with all the possible aspects it has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. The questioners will follow me in the order given: Mr. Dimitris Kremastinos, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos, Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos, Mr. Drivelegas and Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos. We have been notified by the parties and specifically by Mr.Ioannis Plakkatakis from New Democracy that Mr. Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, from Mr. Germenis, Secretary of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, will be present, that Mrs. Desposis Svernasios-Hondronassios will be present, by Mr. Kartsoulis Panagiotis from Potami that today will be Mr. Nikolaos Orphanos, by Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos, Secretary of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, that Mr. Andreas Loverdos and Mr. Pafilis Athanasios from the Communist Party of Greece will attend as a Parliamentary representative. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u89	Should I speak from the Step or from my position?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u90	As you prefer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, first of all I would like to highlight the absence of the Minister of Education, not because I do not appreciate Mr Kourakis, whom I very much appreciate. However, the Minister for Education, when a question is asked, and indeed a general question on such a subject, I have the impression that he should be present in the Chamber. And if there was still any special reason why it can't be, the question should be postponed to be the Minister. That's my opinion. On the issue of bullying, as you know, we use the Anglo-Saxon term 'bullying', because we cannot Greeks give the same meaning. Because bullying is not basically intimidation. Bullying is mistreatment, whether mental or physical, in all appearances. Bullying we have throughout society, in the family itself, in public and private life, in the army and especially in education, at all its levels. Bulying, however, is not just violence. For example, bullying is not the beating of the dean and quit, as happened at the National Kapodistrian University. Bullying is not to resign or be brought to the hospital the Rector of Aristotle. Bullying is not Mr. Panousis being abused by cocoons inside the university. And I say that because by the law that was passed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u92	This for Mr. Panousis is past and forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u93	It's not Mr. Panoussi's fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u94	We never forgot!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, it is not forgotten. Because these phenomena will be repeated. In other words, when the law is decriminating with the famous hood, it means that the student can go to the university with his hood to attend his lesson. He's not an outlaw. Only when he rapes, he becomes an outlaw. And I ask you. When he rapes, is it easy after he's arrested? And who's gonna be arrested? These things are very serious and I say them, because the Minister himself should have heard them, who, when bringing the famous law - this first law that he brought - did not listen to the parliamentary representatives. He did not listen to the position of the parties. I say this because education needs constant dialogue. Do you know that, Mr President and Minister, that the teachers told me that such a system that is elected by teachers is no place in the world and that a South American country that has adopted it and that it has stopped it? And I ask you: if that was good, why would the private schools not have their manager designated by their staff? Because the owner of the private school is interested in the best quality of his studies and he knows that when the director is elected by his subordinates, he simply cannot check at the end. He's his voter. He can't control what time he got, if he left the class, if he took a license he shouldn't have taken it from. He's his voter. Where do you drive the education? Where do we drive education if you want to generalize it? These are the questions. So I ask: Bullying as a concept that should unite us all - and I welcome his position to generalize the question - but how do we distinguish it from violence, which at present in the higher institutions is now beginning to emerge? It is difficult to distinguish the bullying because it is essentially embedded in the animal kingdom. So even the cat, if you shave her - experimentally, has proven what I'm saying to you - the other cats disapprove her. It's something different. I'll get you the bullying on sex, for example. Harassment is linked to sexual activity. Bullying in sex is diversity. When, for example, a homosexual is disapproved, that is bullying. Bullying is not harassment. Bullying is diversity. I will not repeat what our rapporteur, Mrs Christophilopoulou, well said. I must point out, however, that the Ministry of Education, beyond the question, must make a cross-party committee, not so much to listen to the positions of the parties - because it is well known - but to see how the fight or reduction of the bullying is actually to be implemented, given that in England, where there are numbers, it is said that they have about twenty-five suicides of students and students a year because of the bullying. But Bullying, as I described it to you, in the sense of diversity, of psychological abuse, which can also be physically transformed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr Cremastine, for the scientific clarification of the term. It was very important. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, Minister, the tragic death of Vangelis Giakoumakis has brought back to the fore the big issue of intra-School violence, intimidation and all the things that are happening, but often they silence, all those who are now phenomena at all levels of education, but there is no effective response mechanism and any attempt to create it seems to have been frozen. For Vangelis Yakoumakis, aside from the fact that justice should bear responsibility where they exist, whether what happened was suicide as a result of those who had taken place at the expense of him in the previous period or were murder, justice must be attributed. This is the one side. His soul, however, - I believe - is to see and investigate seriously, in a scientific way, by means of all that has happened and in this case, so that the responsible state takes steps, so that we do not have any more Vaggelis. That is the point, and that is why it is our duty to have this serious debate here in Parliament, apart from the public debate, which is as positive as it is not diverted and as long as it is not diverted in the direction of populism or as much as we have seen in the past. I have personally avoided appearing in one way or another from the ones that give easy answers, because it is precisely because the phenomenon wants a deep scientific analysis that at its general level is the subject of science, but we also want to see what we are doing on the basis of these phenomena - which have been multiplying in our country lately - to see what we are doing. Of course, I must say that the easy solutions and easy sayings that all that has happened are a particular feature of Cretan or Crete, or something else is in the direction of enclosing the real problem which concerns society as a whole and not, of course, only our country. It is a phenomenon of modern society throughout Europe and not only, with different characteristics from what was happening in societies that were developed in previous years, in the past decades or even today. Otherwise, the phenomenon is manifested, with different motives, with different causes. So the first thing he should have done - I do not know if he has done so - the Ministry of Education is to work with experts from institutions, universities, specific departments, the direction of research, and on the basis of this fact, in order to see the real aspects beyond the theory. Because - you know - sometimes teachers are copying European writings or anything else. But here, we can have a scientific field research which will give us answers to many of the things we have to do and do not do. That's the first. The second concerns the concept of how the issue is dealt with. Not as a single issue, which is vertically structured and can be addressed at any level separately than the wider issue of crises within education. It is an issue - because we are talking about intra-school violence - which we need to see in a broader design, if you want and along with the issue of electronic intimidation and electronic crime, and how we support victims, children, through broader planning. Therefore, within a wider crisis management plan, we have to see the issue of dealing with bullying. You will allow me to say that the seminars are fine, necessary, but they are not an end in themselves. There are no seminars alone to absorb some resources from a corresponding European Union programme. The seminar is necessary, so that the teacher is capable of being able and at the particular time of being dedicated to dealing with intra-school violence, but at every opportunity he can make his own contribution. Of course, we should have a hierarchy. I would remind you that the CEO of ELGO said that "the fact is that there was intra-school violence, but the administration had not been informed". So, there wasn't the connection, there wasn't the update, even though the manager had called a line of psychosocial support. So it has to work next to the Ministry, the Observatory or whatever it wants to call it. School advisors should then be key faces to school units, where the director or the assistant director will have a specific role to play in dealing with the phenomenon in the first year. If he does, Mr President, we must deal with this issue so that this does not go any further. Of course, information about the whole system that I mentioned before, because the EASY can do a very important job and the dialogue groups within each school - teachers, parents and children themselves - can do a very important job, as long as there is information, that is to say, the information mechanism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President, so that I do not waste more time than my colleagues. I should also like to point out that we were delighted that the debate was being generalised, because our initiative concerns an issue that is very important to society itself, to all of us, particularly to the new generation and to tomorrow. It is not just the big issues and everything else we leave them five months now or another five months until March 2016 to run like - and there is, of course, a big issue for the country. No, and these are big issues and we need to be concerned about them. So it is a pleasure to have the debate in general, and we must all contribute in the best way. In the committee too, we should call on the bodies there - there is no possibility in plenary - that is, EYPE, universities, departments, teachers, the Observatory and anyone else who can help us to have a good plan, a good function that is effective in relation to the phenomenon of intra-school violence. Finally, I would like to mention the issue of visiting schools in the House. Do not misunderstand that, Mr President, it is completely unconscious and out of line. We have so far been saying that the President has certain peculiarities, but yesterday's report puts thoughts on ideological perceptions in relation to freedom of the press and the individual, unfortunately. Of course, this is linked to suffering and we will see this in people who have played a very negative role in history. But you can sit down with the Bureau, the Conference of Presidents, rather than agreeing to a press release from the Bureau in the children and schools visited by the House and to the information given in the Chamber below on the history of the building and so on in the reports. To fill out a small part of the issue of dealing with intra-school violence and the issue of the great danger of misuse of the Internet with two messages. These two important issues can be passed by messages, even at the time you say that "he is visiting us with joy, etc." Instead of sending them negative messages, we can send them a positive message and we can contribute in our way. And teachers, instead of fighting in schools on other issues, giving the message down, behave differently, so that we can have the positive results we all want. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor. Are you coming to Stepma? Your Aetolian voters have also told me that they enjoy you better than the Central Step and not the Common Parliamentary Chairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I am also going to use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u100	If I'm tolerant, hold the dentistry for later. Use the protology first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic death of the student at the Ioannina Dairy School, Vangelis Giakoumakis, has shocked us all. It was a punch in the stomach in a society that has lost its humanity and in an educational system that has sensitivity and support structures, does not exploit them. The problems of violence and intimidation have increased trends in school life, drawing attention to all of us. It is an issue that concerns not only the school community but also society as a whole, affecting both the learning process and the well-being of students in general. The effects of this phenomenon are broad and not only for pupils, but are reflected in both the schools and the families of the students. Even more complex developments are taking place on the Internet, where anonymity works as a despair for the perpetrators. How do you plan, Minister, to deal with this kind of violation? There has been an important effort so far to awaken society around this issue. Are you going to continue? Do you have a plan? [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] The PASOK Parliamentary Group has tabled the timely question on the phenomena of intra-school violence, proving in practice once again the sensitivity and anxiety it has about the need to prevent and deal with problems within schools. PASOK, as a government, took initiatives, founded the Observatory on intra-school violence. He developed pan-Hellenic networks of volunteering and solidarity, energized local government, local social bodies and with the pioneering educational systems he proposed the repression of intra-School violence. Ladies and gentlemen, every school unit has been required since the beginning of the school year to contribute and cooperate with all the participants - teachers' associations, parents' associations and guardians - and, in cooperation with the coordinator, to establish a framework for managing and dealing with such incidents. The cooperation of school units should be encouraged and facilitated, firstly, with health care professionals, CEDEFOPs, university institutions of the country, the community services of the municipalities and bodies - such as, for example, the Child's Counselor, EYPE, the Child's Smile. However, any interventions in the school environment that concern the prevention and treatment of school violence and intimidation must not be exhausted in the school's morning hours, but it is necessary that they should also be recorded in the whole day's programme and that they should continue. This is why the full-time role in the prevention and intervention of the phenomenon of intra-school violence is important. The full-day school is the type of school that was set up to fulfil specific educational and social objectives. One of the main functions of the enlarged programme is the socialisation of children, where opportunities for meetings, communication and cooperation between them is a priority. In this context, children are growing sharply in their social skills and we can take preventive action on the prevention of pre-school and intra-school violence and intimidation through structured activities. The common perspective and targeting of early and full-day school are essential to the success of such interventions. In this connection, a number of actions and initiatives require immediate implementation. And here I propose directly, firstly, a mobile intervention unit, secondly, the operation of a telephone line, thirdly, online advice for teenagers and teachers, fourthly, recording and assessing the phenomenon and fifthly, visibility and publicity and, finally, cooperation between all actors. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we as PASOK have raised the problem and in practice demonstrate our desire to contribute positively to its resolution. It is your responsibility, Minister, to set up a committee to monitor and prevent the phenomenon and to activate the Observatory and the relevant bodies. We're waiting for your actions. We are here to contribute to the implementation of what I have said, so that society does not live again, like the one of the Ioanninas. Minister, I'm a little abusing my time to bring you the anger and anger of the citizens of the Prefecture of Atolokarna. As a result of your creative ambiguity, it is also what I experience today as a Member of the Ioannina Parliament, with the unacceptable decision of the Conference of the University of Patras, which, on one night, decided to transfer three university departments from Agrinio to Patras. He decided to mortgage the professional future of graduates of university schools based in Agrinio, to lower the standard of living of the local residents and to deprive them of their cultural and intellectual reference. Mr Minister, however, many questions are raised that only the University Departments of Agrinio put the underfunding of university departments, especially the University of Patras, on pretext. I wonder why only these sections have been targeted - I do not know, will you answer us - when the local society, the municipal authority, but also all the local actors who invest in their presence have designed and proposed sustainable solutions for some time now? Why has nothing been exploited so far? The old Agrinio Hospital is recommended to be rebuilt for accommodation and food facilities for students. No answer from the University of Patras. A plot of seventy-eight acres was granted, with specific design by the former University of Western Greece. No answer from the University of Patras. No use was made of anything proposed by the former University of Western Greece at the University of Patras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u102	Would you like to use your dentistry as well, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u103	Yes, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u104	Okay, I'll add it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u105	The housing facilities available for the buildings of these sections in Agrini amount to nine thousand square meters. Yet they are missing too. Does the University of Patras have any better places? Is there eventually a plan for the upkeep of university departments from Agrinio to Patras? The question, Minister, is that the life of the local society, of students, of the educational community and of an entire prefecture which already has too many problems is violently reversed to satisfy some of the syndicate interests. I don't know, your conclusions. It is sad, however, in this game that students and some who are supposed to speak in the name of their interest. That's the reality. But together, the municipal authority, the MPs of the county, the Church, the educational community of Agrinio, the citizens and the citizens will not allow the departments of Agrinio to become the Iphigenia to satisfy the interests of certain teachers who wish to perform their duties at their place of residence. Nor should the fair demands of students and their families for better living and training conditions be made the Trojan horse to perish the university community that has been created in the city of Agrinio, illuminates with its knowledge of the whole of Itolocarnania. We invite you, Minister, to intervene. You seem consistent with your election commitments. Stop accepting the Senate's decision, the Committee on Strategic and Spatial Planning for the Higher Education of the Ministry and stand in solidarity with our efforts to continue operating the three university departments in Agrini. It is the Ministry's duty to ensure that they continue to operate in Agrinio. Education is a public social asset, and it is an obligation for the state to provide indiscriminately the right to universal and equal access to it. Let the government finally honour its commitments! The state cannot be used as a party loot to serve their customers SYRIZA and ANEL. The state keeps going. The project "Athens". Specific decisions were taken to keep these sections in our place. This is not going to be circumvented today. The decentralized functioning of university institutions in our country has been an arsenal of producing excellent scientific potential. It has essentially contributed to the upgrading of the cultural level of the counties, where the seats of the university institutions are hosted and has substantially reduced Greece of the two speeds. So a decision of the Senate cannot change the direction of education and the development of a whole prefecture. We're waiting for your own speech, your own decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u106	Mr Giannis Koutsoukos has the floor. I would like to say to you: OK, there will be tolerance, in response to the nomination of my colleague Mr Loverdos - we have problems with our Andreas group now, unstable - but because the debate is widened, they have already been written to speak, in addition to those who are entitled to speak on the question - Members of the party, Members of Parliament, the Minister - and seven colleagues. It's Friday. I will be here by 14.00, but I tell you to keep it in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u107	Why won't you be at the Conference of Presidents this afternoon?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u108	Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK Parliamentary Group took the initiative to discuss this topical question, not only because the wrongful Yakoumakis has established and caused public interest in the phenomena of violence in our school and society in general, but because we believe it is a matter that goes beyond artificial and false divisions which are often cultivated in our society for tiny reasons and purposes and can enable us to achieve wider understanding, consensus through a substantial dialogue and use of the most creative and progressive forces in our society. Will you tell me: is that what concerns public opinion today? Obviously, today public opinion is concerned about where Greece will be on Monday and at the end of the month. We hope that the government will take these decisions, which will not turn Greece back to the time of the food issue or the three-digit inflation, which will lose value for every asset of Greek citizens. We wish that. Since we do not believe that the government wants to lead to this point in Greece, we are allowed, Mr Minister, to dream of a different society and to make another account of a society that is more progressive, fair and fair, with the right of citizens to prosperity, culture, respect for the specificity, a society of non-violence, the opposite of which is the phenomenon we are discussing today: bullying and intra-school violence. It is clear that in order to deal with this phenomenon we must take a number of initiatives. Above all, however, we must show the example to the smallest, younger ones, to those who form characters. The professor was mentioned earlier, Mr. Kremastinos, in phenomena of violence in the universities, in our society in general, many times within the House. Can these be an example at school and teachers and shape the characters of young people? We must, first of all, set an example. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said earlier by our speakers - intra-School violence is cultivating a trumpet when it grows up to ideas that are authoritarian, far-right, fascist and appalling, who accepts violence, which will passively accept all the phenomena of political and social violence in his life and cultivates a citizen neutral in social phenomena and developments, an observer who will not interfere when values are affected for life, democratic and social rights of citizens. In order to deal with all this, we need to shape the characters there, at the school which, according to all the studies, shapes the character of man. For this reason, a school is required collaborative, an open school, which has a progressive concept of cooperation, synergy and not competition within it. As long as there is competition within the school, political, paramilitary, even in relation to the positions of directors, this school cannot contribute. Of course, this school is not closed, but it's open to society. The role of municipalities, social networks, parents and guardians is important. We are not only talking about what Mrs Christophilopoulou, the rapporteur, has presented as measures, initiatives and priorities, which have been in the past and which you must strengthen and improve. For that is your role, Minister: the observatory, the training and all that. I am referring to the general social environment, to the perceptions that we must shape, with a better society in mind, away from the false divisions that often lead to polarisations, which play their part in a limited context, as we have now divided the Greeks - you, probably, separated them - into memorial and antimony. The Greeks, however, have much more to come to an understanding and join them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll keep my time for dentistry, Mr. President. This role has a part to play, Mr President, in our initiative. It is a timely question, which according to the Rules of Procedure of the House is critical of the government, but we do not take advantage of that. We are making use of the element of putting all Parliament in place, and with your own initiatives, to call on the committee, to call on the bodies, to take measures, to give the message to society, because this is where we have to give this message. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. The old and good colleague, Mr Ioannis Drivelegas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, today we are discussing the timely question of intra-school violence and it seems that we are outside what is happening in society, in relation to what is happening about the country. This, indeed, must be said to have something to do with it. And what is this relationship, Minister? The relationship is that, because the country is at a very difficult time - and we hope that they will go on Monday, so that we do not have worse situations - in this spirit the education of this House, we must contribute to a stability, coolness and not with statements and behaviours to contribute to social violence, which your party and you personally have once done. But this is not the time to say these things. It's time to see you. So, with this reasoning, we must all take a positive view of the proposal made by the PASOK Parliament and, of course, I believe that the other parties will be in the same direction. What direction? To contribute to this problem of intra-school violence and to the general violence that has emerged with the tragic loss of Yakoumakis to limit it. I'm not saying we're gonna eliminate it. Because the truth is that in our country, when events happen, we show them to a very high degree and then we forget them a little. And this is a symptom of Greek society. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Mr President, I still have my minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Drivelega, there will be tolerance. You'll get two more minutes of your dentistry. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u113	I say, then, that it would be good to take advantage of our proposal. How can you use it? Not coming here to say what was not done, what had to be done in the past, and it was not done, what had to be done now, and it has not been done. Practical things. You know, I'm both a mathematician and I like the practical stuff. So I say that tomorrow, on your initiative, you should call on the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media to invite the parties to contribute to proposals so that, as soon as possible, you can bring draft laws and proposals to deal with this phenomenon, as I have said, as is best and best. Do this, Minister, now that you have spent your revolutionary period and you are slowly starting to land in reality, it is good for the area of education but also for the country where education is an area of understanding and consensus, to take advantage of this proposal for the good of both the school units and the children, but also to give the whole message to society. And we must all give it to the President of Parliament, the President-in-Office or the President-in-Office at all times, from all of us Members, from the Ministerial Council. We must send out a message, not a political bullying, but a climate of national consensus and consensus. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u114	And we close with our last questioned colleague from PASOK, my twice-time colleague, doctor and congressman, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos. May I put you, Mr. Gregoraco, both minutes of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u115	Yeah, 'cause it's too little time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, it was five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u117	The last two have three and two minutes, Mrs. Catrivanu. That is why I took the initiative to add two minutes of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, thank you very much. There is a new parliamentary procedure, which I believe we will all follow. As a representative of the PASOK at the Conference of Presidents, I will always be in agreement with the broadening of the debate by all parties. I consider this to be very important, and I consider this to be a great conquest and an innovation in the functioning of the Greek Parliament, Mr President. So, from now on, for all the questions, we will be in favour of a general question from all the parties. This particular issue is something that we should have discussed for a long time, since this sad event happened with Yakoumakis, but also with the young student, but also with all these difficult and truly sad incidents taking place in the Greek province. Let us not forget, of course, Alex’s death, because he also falls in this case. I would, therefore, like to see the Ministry of Education, which I know the sensitivity available to my fellow Members and ministers who are currently in the Ministry of Education, and I believe there will also be a consensus with the Ministry of Health, but also with all the other ministers involved in the bullying process, so that we can get out of our deadlocks on the issues that the Greek society has been involved in over the last few years. We are discussing an issue, Mr President, which hurts all - and parents and friends and relatives and hurts the Greek state. We are watching in the international press every day the international events in countries that are very technologically, spiritually, but also economically, and we see that this phenomenon has taken enormous proportions. These surveys at international level have shown that about 15% of pupils have experienced behaviours of intimidation and violence. Of course, it is observed in the majority at the time of puberty. But the seasons have changed. The world is having a hard time today, in general. The stimuli are much more. And all this has been shifted to ages upwards. Research in Greece - you know very well, Mr President and Minister - have shown that the phenomenon of violence and intimidation is one in ten children - it is a very high proportion for Greece - resulting in serious consequences for the social development and the learning processes, which are expressed in various ways. It is true that many steps have taken in recent years in Greece at this level. More needs to be done, Minister. We can, even in the difficult circumstances that we are going through, do some more important things about the bowling that has been happening in recent times. I won't talk about the kinds of bowling. In all forms of bullying, which we have seen in recent years, we can put political bullying on, but that is another story that we will discuss more extensively another time. There are, therefore, many forms of intimidation, during which the perpetrator tries to isolate the person - not only in school - or ignores it or even tries to convince others to feel dissatisfaction about it. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, intimidation and violence in school and society are acts of aggression and any act of aggression involves within it the concept of bullying. Thus, it is expressed in a different manner at every age, in each social group, in each scientific group, each of which has its specific character. So, ladies and gentlemen, the bullying is defined as demarcating, so that the state can see it, control it and go beyond it, something which, unfortunately, still does not apply to Greece. We have to demarcate it. We must see what we will do as a Parliament of the Greeks, as Greek politicians, as responsible people, as parents, as friends, as relatives, as a country that can and gives examples of homogeneity, examples of spirit, examples of innovation, so that, at last, even at last, in Greece, we can do something different, something that is modern in order to be able to deal with this modern form of violence that is being observed, not only in schools, but also in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, now I need a little help from now on. The formal procedure says that, first, I ask the Minister if he wants to answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u120	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u121	You don't want to. Seven colleagues have been written. Does the Parliamentary Representatives want to speak first and then, or do you have the right, to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u122	After the Minister, we'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u123	The Minister said that he does not wish to intervene now. He wants to intervene then. So you later. So we start the list of speakers. So that there are no complaints and I respond indirectly, Mr Pappa, and to you, we will go as we usually do. We start with one speaker from each party and then the rest in the order that is written. I mean, the first four are going to be interchangeable. So Mrs Katrivanou will speak from SYRIZA, Mr. Kefaloyannis from New Democracy, Mr. Papas from Golden Dawn, Mr. Mavrotas from Potami and Mr. Papachristopoulos from the ANELs. Mr Orphane, you were wrongly written, because you are a parliamentary representative. So I erased you. Then there are three other colleagues: Mr Kartsoulis, Mr Leucakos and Mr Kumucasos. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u124	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u125	If the Minister speaks, you have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u126	If the Minister does not speak, it makes no sense for the parliamentary representatives to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u127	I can't force it on him, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u128	The government is asking. If he doesn't answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u129	The Minister will answer. He just wants to hear. We shall take it as follows: four colleagues will speak and you will then speak, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u130	The list of colleagues is being drawn up, the Minister speaks, and then we will be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u131	Good. Well, then you'll be intruding. That's what I said in the first place. I didn't make it clear. We start with Mrs Vassilis Katrivanou, who can speak either from the Step or from her position. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u132	I'll have your tolerance if I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u133	Don't bother me Friday. You'll have the tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u134	I never hurt you. First of all, I am delighted that this question is being asked. I consider it excellent, and I consider it excellent, for a SYRIZA government which has the will and the opportunity to implement a programme covering this question of intimidation, conflict resolution, rights issues, etc. I also believe that it has not only this possibility, but has also demonstrated through its policy that the rights and dignity of the people living here are its priority and with all the bills it has brought, such as the hundreds of doses, for the humanitarian crisis, for citizenship, for the extension of the cohabitation agreement, etc. Why? Beyond everything we do in schools, unless there is an institutional framework covering people, shielding them, no second-class people, no invisible people, there is no room without equal rights, no matter what we do as educational material in schools is cancelled. It is being cancelled by the institutions, canceled because our social education is contrary. In other words, in the previous period, when we did not have citizenship, when we did not have a cohabitation pact, when there was an institutional role, by the Prime Minister himself who was racist, any anti-racist education, and if it was in schools, it was void, because society was getting other messages from both the state and the media. I agree with what Mrs Christophilopoulou said, that prevention is essential and not repression in this context. We have to understand that. The Yakumaki case is about homophobia. We have to say that. They're not generally bullying. It's an issue and homophobic bullying. And this is a big issue in Greek society, which we need to recognise. We need to train our students and our teachers in that direction. We must also put legislation against homophobia - as I said the pact, marriage, all that shields people. In particular, however, it must go to education and I tell you from personal experience, because I have worked with teachers and children on rights and on racism. On the subject of racism, teachers are doing better. There is a great difficulty in homophobia in both the same and the same class, how to handle them. I would also like to draw your attention to that. In both homophobia and transfusion. And I'm saying that, because, where we've spotted schoolgirls, they've gone through the worst bowling of all, even burned up. I think that the greatest success of SYRIZA and any government will be to be able to do a school, which does not care what to learn to children, but to learn this: how to have a democratic school, how the children will participate, how to learn to cooperate, how to resolve conflicts, how to live together and how to exploit diversity. How they will be able to live with each other and with all the difference between one another and another. If SYRIZA manages to add to this direction, it'll be amazing. There are things that have been done before. There are training for rights, intimidation, mediation, etc. So I think you should put a weekly programme focusing on this training. Be experiential, not theoretical, and not in the form of lectures. Kids don't listen, they want to do the trick. Only through the poem understands, learns and entertains. Secondly, in order to do this, teachers need to be supported. Not only should they learn to do these programmes, i.e. train teachers, but to strengthen teachers. Teachers are up here! They can't afford to know anything new, because they think it's another burden. So they must be given a firm space so that they can 'load' and learn something new in this direction again with experiential education. This can only be done on a monthly basis and with supervision. You can't teach them once and leave them like that. They'll forget it and they won't take advantage of it. Thirdly, in America and other places, the Peer moderation, that is, the mediation of classmates, is what it has done most. When you do that, the child itself is in the yard, sees the bullying taking place and intervening and is not a simple witness. You should put that in your head. I think, as I said to you, that any of this should include the issue of homophobia, transfusion and, of course, racism, especially now that we have and develop in schools, the Golden Dawn, etc. I would say not to go ahead if you do not consult on the substance of the matter with the teachers, with the children and, if possible, with the parents. But consult and bring your suggestions. There is a great deal of experience, because people work, fight and train, so that they can deal with these issues in the classroom. Take advantage of this experience and find out what works and what does not work. Don't do anything on line, anything is theoretical, anything else is one thing to read, because they don't get any place. It is complementary, but it is not the key. It's not the key intervention. Mrs. Christophilopoulou has worked on such things, I have worked with her in the past. He knows what we're talking about. I'm done. To do this, he needs consultation with the whole community. And when I say 'the whole community', I mean teachers, children, parents. Watch it. The parent must be involved. To be able to support it. To be able to understand it. I know that in some neighbourhoods, in some municipalities, there is the logic of open school, namely, when the school ends, that children in the school are able to rely on some cultural issues either to play or to do other courses.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u135	Mrs. Catrivanu, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u136	Take advantage of this, too. It's a very competent institution. Wherever it works, it's got a place. School can be a core of support and learning in a society that really has such great anxiety. The bullying, the intimidation underneath have anger, anger, fear, anguish and inability to handle your difference and know what you're going to do in your life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor. After Mr. Kefaliannis, Mr. Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with at least one unfortunate report by Mrs Catrivanou on the Vangelis Yakoumakis case and a homophobic bullying connection. I would say to you, Madam President, because the criminal case is pending, that the case is open, that we do not rush to draw any conclusions, especially when they do not come anywhere from this case. A little respect for the kid's memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u139	The more we hide it, the more we tighten it. I don't know if Yakoumakis was gay. But the bullying was homophobic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u140	Mrs Schleicher, please clarify this because at least this conclusion came out of your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u141	That was not Mrs Catrivanu's intention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u142	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u143	Mrs. Catrivanu, don't take the floor on your own. It wasn't her intention. It clarifies that he has spoken in general and not specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u144	You're covering for me, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very afraid that we are at risk as a National Representation in all kinds of debates, such as today. In other words, to be used in persuasive convictions and endless analyses of psychological or sociological content on the phenomenon of school bullying, while for us the issue is nothing more and nothing less than its real political management. I feel the need to introduce this observation, because the Greek society has become violently familiar with school bullying, through the tragic incident of my compatriot Vangelis Giakoumakis, so that it has not yet developed sufficient cognitive defence to deal with the phenomenon. The public debate on this issue is extremely poor, full of stereotypes and prejudices, which rather obscurish, rather than enlighten the causes, function and hence the means necessary to eliminate it. I believe that as important as we know what to do to tackle school bullying, it is also so important that we understand what we should not do so that we do not contribute to devaluation of importance and therefore to the reproduction of the phenomenon. I am thinking of some of them, in the hope of being useful. There is the impression that intimidation is reserved for the only one who intimidates and the one who is intimidated. In such cases, however, two parties are not involved, but three. It's the mortar, the victim and their audience. Very often, we ourselves become part of this audience. The uninterrupted visibility of the phenomenon as supposedly a scourge of the time, not only does it feed itself, but it makes it more fashion where its appearance is relatively recent, as in schools. Part of the educational value of the perpetrators' sentence is mass contempt and not mass projection. Bullying is an extremely serious issue to place self-sufficient likes on social media as shocked, angry or socially sensitive. It is good to remember how much of the phenomena of trabucism have reaped, even with purely political content, through situations of mass extremism and sterile demonism, often giving the perpetrator the giggling of the offense and doubt, which goes against the current. Secondly, we do not need to constantly undermine the fatalist logic that the victim is by definition a weak creature, which, if not receiving the aid, will continue to endure fundamentally until the final fall. The truth is that intimidation succeeds where victims have nowhere to turn for help either because of shame or because of indifference and abandonment, another fact is that the problem is not dealt with with campaigns of awareness, but with appropriate social structures and qualified knowledge, that will address the problem and help children and teachers to recognise and deal with it. Finally, we must not become a part of a merciless media circus, which we must denounce in every way and every opportunity, where he pretends to know what is happening in the soul and life of a young man and his family. When we talk about tender ages, children who are incriminated because they are more sensitive, so they may not behave like most adults, we do nothing more than strengthen the stereotypes that lead many, instead of rejecting this mortal, to question basic rights of the attacker. So we leave the margin and the field free to show even more incidents of violence and intimidation. So let us keep the stereotypes and prejudices for our own home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u145	We too, Mr. Kefaliannis. That's great! We've earned a lot of time. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, we are talking about intra-school violence and we are doing very well. But this House is not just an elected legislature. Previously, a speaker spoke of the educational spirit of the House and I agree with him. In particular, in the process of today's debate, the development process of this type of question is being given the opportunity, I would say, to produce ideas from this House. At the beginning of the debate many colleagues were asked for, and then there was an extension of the debate on violence. Colleagues have also referred to other issues, and Mr Loverdos, I would say with great passion, asked for the beginning to extend today's debate. I agree, it's an opportunity to extend the conversation. Like all Greeks, in the same way - and I speak of the Members of the Golden Dawn - we are actually experiencing a kind of violence, I would say a form of parliamentary violence. We are also experiencing, like the rest of the Greek people, the distorted form of democracy, the deformed democracy. Let me speak - and I will dare to say it - a dictatorship. I explain my thought by telling you and asking you this: When was the Greek people asked about its big issues? One party succeeds the other, forgetting the next election and his programme and his announcements. So the people always stand aside, always easy and always betrayed. There has been no referendum for forty years, except for the December 1974 referendum on state. The Greek people have never been asked about either the EEC, that is to say, Europe or the 'Kallikratis', which is a very important issue, which affects us and will affect us either for the euro or for the Memorandum, or for the mutation of the Greek society, by changing morals now. It was not even asked about the Greeks' population mutation by the arrogant and uninterrupted invasion of foreigners, non-Greeks. In today's dilemma that is currently being put on the ground, "spatial or euro", "Greece or Europe", we as a people's movement, the Golden Dawn Association, respond strongly and Greek: Greece alone! Ladies and gentlemen, the moment we are talking about is essentially war, war without weapons, but war with fallen, war with misery, with disasters, with side losses. There is a violent mutation of Greek society: Marxists and capitalists want to destroy the country. We're not leaving them. We, the Chrysayites, won't let them. I address all Greeks and all Greek women, to those who burn fire in their souls and will continue to burn, the Greek flame, which no one will erase. We call on the Greeks, on this occasion in today's debate, not to be afraid to stand up and fearless in front of the propaganda and terrorisation of the silvers, the parrot officials of the International Monetary Fund, the representatives of the atypical fourth power, the memorial terrorist presentations of the news of the big channels. We call on the Greeks to stand up and fight, to stand as Greeks incompetent and to say "no". We as a third political force, an anti-immemorial and passionate people and Greek, stand on the side of the people and fight politically and will continue to fight, at any personal or other cost, whatever obstacle the representatives of the so-called democratic arch make to us. We're against everyone, not because he smoked us. We're against everyone, because we're with the people, we're with Greece. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good debate to be held in plenary on the basis of the timely question about intra-school violence. We have heard and listened to very interesting things, and I think it will be even greater if this debate is going to take place at the joint meeting of the Committees on Education and Social Affairs, as the Potami has proposed, and that is where we will hear and ask the experts and draw much better conclusions. The phenomenon of bullying is old worldwide. There have been scientific studies since the 1970s. There have been countries that have developed antibullying strategies and policies for years, such as America, Great Britain, Canada and Germany, while Greece is a problem that has been recognised relatively recently and we have not so far known its true dimensions. In the phenomenon of school bullying, many places are involved: It is the child who accepts violence, the child or children who exercise it, the children viewers in this phenomenon, teachers and parents. I will focus on what is very critical of me, namely the issue of the silencer. It is a behaviour that strengthens the role of the citizen as a passive viewer, instead of the role of the citizen in social policy. So we see the wrong thing, and we say, "Where do we get in trouble now? Where should I put them with them?’, a behavior that exploits all kinds of violence and intimidation. So the greatest rival to violence is essentially social outcry and its best ally is silent acceptance. If this mentality is fought, when it is early - and bullying is a case in which it is appropriate that this should be done already in school years, that is to say, speaking next to the one that is silent - then the antibodies of society are strengthened against the violence of all kinds. The main cause of this phenomenon is the intolerability of diversity, which is cultivated both in society and in school and in the family. In other words, as long as society marginalizes vulnerable social groups and motivates conflict with these groups, any individual action at school has very little efficiency and efficiency. Here, too, we have a role as parliamentarians with the reason we use as representatives of society. If we use a disgraceful speech against social groups, such as the homophobic speech we have heard from some aspects of Parliament, how can we expect from a brochure against homophobia, which will be shared in schools, be effective? There are structures, as we have heard from previous speakers and speakers, at least on paper. The issue is how much they contribute to the prevention and repression of the bullying and how much they coordinate and create synergies between them to optimise the result. As with most things in Greece, the issue lies in the way of implementation and not only in the establishment of dozens of bodies and in the announcement of dozens of actions. We must say that the role of teachers, teachers and school advisors, who must have open antennas, continuing training and awareness of such issues, is very important. They are the first radars to deal with such issues, and these radars must always be open and have as wide a range as possible. Also an important role is to play a role in the education of vulnerable and vulnerable social groups in the country, such as the Roma Children's Education programme, which is a programme for the smooth integration of the respective children into schools in the various regions, a programme which has been completed but which has not been included in the next forward programmes of the ESDP. But bullying doesn't exist in school alone. There can be in sports spaces at a camp, so our antennas must always be open. Another point which needs to be clarified is the issue of age. We're talking about school bullying, and there are incidents where the victim and the victim cease to be minors. The case of Vangelis Giakoumakis has shown that bullying can continue in adult life, under conditions similar to the school environment. There is, therefore, post-training at the university, there is in the army, at work, and even in politics. However, I would like to point out that we must not go to the other end of the pending. Awareness and another overreacting and rejuvenating of any normal dispute between children in incident bullying. We must balance ourselves, so that we do not have the opposite effect, that is to say avoid the socialisation of children, fearing the bullying or leading the children to think that every experiment of the friend is bullying, thus sterilising them in their social relations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I still have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u149	All right, Mr. Black. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u150	The battle will be won in prevention. The issues of legalisation and attempted criminalisation and repression by legal means should be investigated with great care and grief, as neither their effectiveness has been proved nor a solution been proved, especially when we are talking about minors. Finally, we look forward to a joint meeting of the Committees on Education and Social Affairs, with a view to drawing up and presenting a report to the House after dialogue with scientific bodies. There we will really hear the scientific world and we will be able to make detailed proposals, propose changes to existing actions or even propose new ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u151	Until my friend Mr Papachristopoulos comes to Stepma, I will read to you, ladies and gentlemen, three communications. The Ministers of Finance, National Defence and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, and the Deputy Ministers of Finance, National Defence and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity tabled a draft law on 18-6-2015: ‘Regulating public pensions and other provisions’. MEP Emmanuel Konsolas asks for a four-day absence abroad from Friday 19 June to Monday 22 June. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u152	The House approved the requested permission. Congressman Apostolos Vésiropoulos asks for a four-day absence abroad from Friday 19 June to Monday 22 June. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u153	The House approved the requested permission. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u154	I would be pleased to sign this question, along with the PASOK Members. I think it is regrettable - because it is supposed to be the quality of thinking, the very strong dialogue, from which some students will also be able to follow us - this. The plenary is empty and will be empty on every serious issue, because this is a very serious matter, and that is a little bad. Violence, in my opinion, is intransigent, it is a very big issue and I think it is a little unfair to expect a Minister of Education to resolve an issue which is now a social issue with explosive dimensions. To put things in place - without monopolizing the truth - opacity in life brings us violence. Lack of dignity brings violence. Economic inequality brings enormous violence. The widespread complication and corruption, that's what brings violence! We don't live in school anymore. I do not understand why schools should be an exception, when we are no longer working as sets, but the philosophy of individualism prevails. This has, indeed, led to, according to OXFAM statistics, eighty-six tycoons - I will say it and let me get tired - having assets as much as three and a half billion citizens, the poorest in the world. This is a reality of violence alone. I would also like to point out that there have always been - but in micrographs - bullies. I don't like using foreign words, English words. I believe the Greek language has a very rich vocabulary. They were bullies both in the villages and in the schools and in the army and everywhere. But I would say that at that time it was a pleasant, graphic note and nothing more, nothing less. Nowadays, violence is a sign in our lives. Truly, what pattern can a child growing up in a family that the father has not adapted either to solidarity or to the fact that we have to act as a whole in our lives? The standard is specific - and it cannot be violated, at least at the moment - and it speaks of methods not clean, such as those written by Rousseau to 'Aimio', which took a child from a young age and raised it. Today many would laugh, because there Russo, in the Enlightenment, passes the ideas of solidarity, of groups, of love for neighbor or of the weak or the notion of multicultural societies and all that is considered comic, not to say dissuasive. The economic inequality, which results in the enormous movement of people of poor people who come to the Promised Earth - something that we receive today - adds to the concept of violence and, I repeat, not just in schools. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Just a second and I'll be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u155	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u156	It's an explosive matter. I think it is perhaps the most timely thing in this day and this Chamber should be filled with today. It is not and will not be, because violence is being persecuted here in the Greek Parliament too. I'm sorry to say that. To conclude, I would like to say that I endorse all the suggestions made by the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, with all the suggestions. I think the Minister with sensitivity will take it into account even though - I repeat - it is a question of prevention and not of repression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr. Cartassouli, you have the floor for your position or for the Step where you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u158	I prefer it here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u159	As you wish, Mr. Comrade. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the development of this issue has so far been covered by both the PASOK Members and the other speakers. What I would like to do in the short time I have is to make some specific suggestion about what we can do the next day. We therefore agree that there should be a meeting of the enlarged Committee on Education and Public Administration in order to have time to discuss. But what can we talk about? So on this agenda I would like to address some thoughts, Mr Minister, with the request to see them. What I think is important is that you see the part of the assessment of policies - I will refer to the time that I have - that we have so far. I think, instead of others, that the Ministry, but also the regional agencies of the Ministry and other non-governmental organisations, or other organizations dealing with this issue, have done some things. In other words, to be a little more specific, I counted seven specific structures which only deal with the issue of intra-school violence. I won't mention them. You know them. They have already been mentioned by other colleagues. First question: What is the product of these structures? So what have they done so far and how do we assess it in relation to the objective that we have set either as a Parliament or as a political leadership in relation to the bullying? I suppose we do not want to have any other cases, and we certainly want to see the situation progressing for the better, in relation to the tragic event which we are discussing and which has given the floor for this question as well today. The structures to evaluate them. What exactly should we assess? See which of them, for example, have or have no added value. Because you see: If we have six, seven structures, which only deal with the bullying, the first question that is asked is how they coordinate them. So who's doing this? I understand that every minister, like you or anyone else, is almost impossible to do, because he wants another minister to have a say in him too. And that is a well-known problem for the Greek public administration, who will in any case coordinate all those who are responsible for the coordination of others. But if anything, you could, for the thirty-nine regional coordinators you have designated by the decision - I mean the work of the specific person who ran from the Fourth Community Support Framework - tell us what they are doing. Not in the sense of looking to see where there are deficits, but how we can improve the presence of these people. There are three people per region, according to the work I see here from the deliverables, who have been trained, and in any case they are responsible for dealing with the issues of school violence. So, here the meaning of this debate could be: to see the structures, to see the infrastructures, to see for all that money - it was half a million, I am not saying that it was much, but it was an important sum allocated by the previous Community Support Framework to deal with this very issue - and to see what was delivered, what was left, what was not left. They may look like details, but only so, if the debate is general, we can have an overall picture. I will also give an example: In evaluating the institutional framework what are we doing? We are voting for laws or amending various provisions, but no one comes to say that those former ones have rendered or did not deliver or need a new one. In other words, we need personal responsibility - why was it mentioned by some colleagues - of the teacher himself in relation to the issue of intra-school violence? The United States has recently adopted such legislation that we may have to change something of our own. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] If we want to be honest, our big problem is - I repeat - in evaluation. And I mean the broader evaluation, I don't mean just the evaluation of people, but also of structures and results. Three directorates have the Ministry of Education and it has a department which only deals with it. What are the deliverables we have? What did they all deliver? What did they give in relation to this? Did they give any circulars? Let's see them. Did they go below? So I have the impression that, in talking about these issues, we should first make an assessment of what we already have and then design something that will be painted. In other words, there are discussions and general references to the type of'should be stopped'. I think that Parliament should not be exhausted in this, but also by exercising a kind of parliamentary control, I would say, through the other mechanisms it has, that it should bring forward a proposal that this House could discuss and be a step further forward. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u161	Well, we are completing the speakers with two 'you listen', Mr Efstathos Leuchakos and Mr Georgios Kumoutsakos. Mr. Leuchako, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that on the subject we are discussing today, the biggest bullying the Greek people accepted it in the five years of the memorandum. Indeed, he accepts it today, who are trying to cultivate that or we should be led to subjection, humiliation or destruction. They try to terrorize an entire people to accept subjection and humiliation. This is the most extreme form of bullying. For this particular child from Crete, Vangelis Yakoumakis, I think some people did the worst they could. They made his life unfit and so a child, in the most beautiful and useful age and having all life ahead of him, was driven or led him out of life. Expanding these incidents in the school environment is not without cause and is not done in a neutral social environment. If one takes a careful look, one will see that this was cultivated and gigantic when some standards were created in Greece, in a country that had furnished prosperity, had the model of success, had models of appearance and behaviour. But then in Greece, the memoranda, unemployment and social automation, these phenomena found an appropriate field. Anybody who does not respond to these dominantly imposed models in terms of appearance, economic situation, choices of behaviour and identity can be found in the target. And this in the context of a society where the lack of tolerance to the different and the "foreign" were cultivated and cultivated by the media as well. All of this in the context of a society which itself has accepted as a whole and not only in the school environment, but also in the labour, social and housing sectors. All those who are invoking today - and rightly so! - and we ask the state - and this is the state's obligation - to protect the right to safety, health and learning, not to forget what has been achieved in these years in particular on the part of school units. There was a deep deterioration, which created a better environment to develop these phenomena, since, by cultivating interventions that had a hard, neoliberal character, they strengthened the barriers to education, increased competition and atomicism, reduced the whole school map in our country and stripped teachers. This has been all the time for five years, a depreciation of the educational unit, when we all agree that from the first to be upgraded and methods and ways to deal with are the school community itself and the teacher himself. And there must be such a framework that can respond and respond consistently and continuously to a difficult phenomenon which, despite the difficulties, must be overcome. I think that education must change its way, turn and cultivate not only knowledge in specialized courses - which also have their importance and must be cultivated - but also values, such as the value of solidarity, collectiveness, cooperation, support for the weak, tolerance to diversity. This, in my opinion, is the essential education which we must provide today for young people, children from kindergarten, primary school, and high school, so that they can claim their right to life in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only react to something that has just been said, that Greece has been undergoing the last time and during the crisis, as has been said, a bullying. And I would like to ask: is there a more extreme form of bullying than saying a government MP that a food and fuel package will be imposed? Who can scare more a people than these unacceptable...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u165	There's never been such a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Leuchako, it's not for you. You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u167	...of these unacceptables that were unsuccessful to a government MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u168	No congressman has said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u169	Not you, Mr. Leuchako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u170	No congressman. I know who you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u171	Don't ruin the climate now. You said what you said. Mr Kumoucaskos is entitled to speak his opinion freely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u172	Because once again a social phenomenon is trying to ideology itself in a way that is far away from the phenomenon, I will respond with just one argument. School intimidation and violence phenomena exist in societies - even more pronounced than in Greece over the last five years - which have been in great economic decline or which do not have the terrible problems that Greece has been experiencing over the past five years. What is going on there and there is a phenomenon? So let this attempt to ideologicalize a social problem be left with this answer. It is a morbid phenomenon of intra-school intimidation and violence. It poisons not only everyday life, but it can also the whole life of young children, with tragic results many times. A young child suicide is something our society cannot stand. And many times these suicides are typical suicides, and they're actually murders. They are being driven there, in this awarded deed of young children, because they are under constant pressure, which they cannot withstand. Obviously, when we talk about school bullying and violence, we're not talking about an occasional fight at the corner of the school yard. We're talking about a phenomenon that has permanent characteristics. Specific mortals or perpetrators and specific victims or victim. What makes such an effective way of dealing with the phenomenon is a special feature that it has. It's the characteristic of a peculiar group, a silence. Silence of the perpetrator, who knows he has a transgressive behavior, silence of the victim, who does not want to appear marginalized and defeated in the disciple, but also silence even of the witness bullying. This to break, which is the first and main method of dealing with it, requires vigilance, awareness and continuing education. If we cannot break this course in a short time, we will never be able to deal with this phenomenon, which has recently taken another dimension, more poisonous and more dangerous: its online form. Do you know what happens many times? The victim of the yard in the morning becomes the victim of the night online. And he's very tough because he's avenged. So the phenomenon is complex. It requires synergy, cooperation and coordination of many aspects of the state's action. Otherwise we won't be able to deal with it. I would just like to speak - because there have been many proposals and I hope the relevant Ministry will listen to them, study them and quickly implement them, those which it considers realistic and practicable - for a very short time for the European dimension. Move, Minister, towards Europe. I know that you do not love her very much, you do not understand Europe very much, but you claim Community funds to deal with the phenomenon. There were programmes, "DAFNE", "SAFER INTERNET", with the presence and information on the phenomenon in Greece. I have personally tried to do so, with a relative success, as a Member of the European Parliament, by putting forward the only resolution of the European Parliament to deal with the phenomenon and to have a European day against intra-school violence and intimidation. This day will not only be one day of discussion, but it can also be drawn or made the occasion of raising funds very useful both for information and for dealing with it. I close with this: The first concern to deal with a complex, morbid phenomenon is to break the circle of silence surrounding it, its cycle of unspokenness, victim and society. That is what we need to do and that is what we need to contribute. And I hope that today's debate in the Greek Parliament, at the initiative of the PASOK Parliament, has contributed as much as it could. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u173	It's time for the Minister to speak. Minister, you have twenty minutes of protology, ten minutes of dentology, five tritology. Warm request, also because of your rhetoric vigilance, do not exhaust all times. Immediately after we enter Parliamentary representatives. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. I won't take all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must say to you - because it has been requested from the outset by Mr Cremastino, I think - for the absence of the Minister. The Minister happens to have a slight health problem that doesn't allow him to be here. I cannot, of course, say any more details.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u175	Passing by.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u176	Passing by.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u177	I'll pass it on to him, Mr. Loverdo and Mrs. Christophilopoulou. I think a postponement would probably be a mistake. I think there has been a very good discussion. You understand that we are primarily interested in understanding the phenomenon. I think that Parliament has contributed to this today, in two directions: firstly, to understand the phenomenon and, secondly, to direct the actions where we consider them to be the causes that produce it. I would like to say at the outset that Mr Kartsoulis' position was in the right direction, as far as the contents of the joint meeting of Parliament's Committee on Education and Social Affairs were concerned. As far as this issue is concerned, it must go further not on what we have done here today, but on the evaluation of the actions of the Ministry and the programmes, so that we know more and more comfortably to discuss what has happened and how we are going from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u178	Minister, may I interrupt you for thirty seconds, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-five members of the Kipslis Friendship Club. On behalf of the Greek Parliament we welcome you to the House and thank you for the visit. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u179	I would say that the phenomenon of intra-school violence is developing on a notion of tolerance of diversity. Every day we come in contact with people who have certain features that differentiate them from this so-called unscientific term "natural average". There's no normal average. In this context, what deviates from this - and this is a matter of education and culture throughout society - appears to be the so-called social stigma, which ultimately leads to the social exclusion of individuals. There are, as you know, many kinds of social stigma. They may be physical attributes such as disability, physical malformation, age, of course - which we are all going through at some point - the stigma referring to mental illness, such as mental illness, addiction to substances. How many people, let's say, even now, think that schizophrenia is dangerous? So they are driven to a distance from them and from this point until we reach social exclusion and prejudice is too short in time. How much are the discriminations that exist which are characterised as different, whether they have different colours or different sexual orientation or different language, or - as we have said before - physical characteristics and others? And how much should school encourage programs that help the student to think the different is entirely normal, as at some point each one of us can move into the different category? For example, a homeless man. Each one of us can be in the homeless position or an immigrant - as we have seen many children of Greece, our country, now leave as immigrants - or may move the next quarter into a situation of AME from a car accident. And, of course, it's also the inevitable old man with the physical incapacity that it brings. This is an entire culture, which can be taught in the context of teaching, interculturality, with whole programmes. Mrs Christophilopoulou, I think that in her first speech she correctly identified the word 'prevention'. Prevention also includes respect for diversity. I would say that a person who presents a diversity the most difficult issue he has to deal with is not this diversity, but the negative attitude of society towards this diversity. Incorporating, you know, through the look of others, which is the mirror, that the same is different, so lower. So he doesn't have the same rights. So he can suffer both school violence and all kinds of violence, because he really is a person who has integrated himself into being inferior, so he is not worth it. Of course, it is true that many people do not know how to treat a disabled person or any other kind of divergence and are - without always realising it - stereotypes and prejudices, with frequent reactions, such as the persistent look at a person who is different or indiscriminate questions or behavioural rejection of these individuals. With regard to mental health problems, it is much more often than the prevailing social perception believes. According to international scientific surveys, 1/5 of adults have experienced at least once at a certain stage in their life experience of mental dysfunction. So I would say that the limits between 'physiological' and 'pathological' are many times indiscreet and very easy to pass, as I said before, from one category to the other. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have to discuss this issue. We're right about it. The initiative taken by my fellow Members is commendable. The aim, of course, of the Ministry in this debate is not to focus on the tragic events that have taken place and not because we do not consider them important, but because today we need to clarify the state's actions in the fight against intra-school violence so that we do not have to have such a debate ever again. Listening to the positions previously, I would like to stress the fact that the fight against the phenomenon of intra-school violence depends, as everyone understands, of course, on a variety of factors and is directly linked to the general social conditions which, in cases of social and economic crisis, such as the current one, are unfortunately multiplier. The question, therefore, is how can the Ministry respond effectively and effectively to such a multidimensional phenomenon, which is, of course, about the school environment, but its real causes often go beyond it. We also know that the economic crisis that we are experiencing from the intensity of the phenomenon that will continue in the next period is not independent. In this context, following this introduction, I would like to tell you that the Ministry of Education has focused on two packages of actions: on the one hand, the activities of recording, prevention and intervention and, on the other, awareness-raising and information activities. And I have to tell you from the outset, with all honesty, that we do not invent these areas. We do not start from scratch, we do not come to say that nothing has been done and that the tragic phenomena presented were the result of a lack of politics. No way. We are making use of the efforts that have been made in the past, we are continuing the positive actions and the assessment we are saying to do at this joint meeting is more to strengthen the efforts from now on, building on what has been done so far. Before I refer in detail to all the contributions currently being made by the Ministry of Education, I would like to highlight a dimension which, in our view, is particularly important. So to tackle the phenomenon of school violence, ladies and gentlemen, but also to prevent it - I will say something common - the foundation stone is the educational and valuable work that it does in and out of order. The positive representations that he relays to the students and his work on familiarising children with diversity, as I mentioned earlier, are the key tools on which we as political leadership are building our interventions on this issue. That is one of the reasons why we have been working to create a positive climate in the school unit since the beginning of our commitment to the Ministry of Education, through the support of teachers and their work. It is this incentive that crosses our every intervention and I must say, with regard to the messages we receive, that we seem to have an improvement in the school climate in spite of all the very important - economic and other - problems that we are facing as a country. That is why we pay particular attention to the training of teachers - I mention this for Mrs Christophilopoulou - with concrete initiatives, which we will have to say at some point, perhaps at this joint meeting. With regard to the structured and evolving actions of the Ministry of Education, in order to tackle school violence, we are moving on two distinct levels: On the one hand, we are organising important activities of extroversion and awareness-raising that are aimed at the whole educational community and that are aimed at coordinating the efforts of all - teachers, pupils and parents - in a symbolic manner, I would say. One example - it is obviously not exhausted in this - is the Panhellenic Day Against School Violence, the 6th of March, where all schools are given the opportunity to discuss in detail the question of combating school intimidation, organising substantial awareness-raising events, devoting time to information and to the effective involvement of students in a creative framework of reflection on important social issues, such as the phenomena of discrimination on the basis of, as has been said, the particular physical and cultural characteristics of groups or persons, such as those mentioned, genealogical outcomes, ethnic identity, disability, etc. The importance of this day happened to live in the Ministry, when many children came to present their actions throughout the school year. In other words, it was not only of a celebrity character, but it was also a testament of work that was done all along the previous period. In this sense, I think it escapes the symbolic character and has a substantial content. Similar actions are organised each year and in cooperation with other bodies active at the social level who carry their experiences to the students, in the context of presenting their work, such as what I have told you. These actions are often implemented with health bodies, as Mrs Christophilopoulou mentioned at the outset, in the area of dependency prevention, but also in other social areas, with which we are attempting the maximum of cooperation, and in this direction we encourage all the actors in the educational community to follow, taking active initiatives on this issue. We are therefore open to actions that are created in the field and in society and we support synergies locally and in a wider context, so that the school and society can act constructively in the fight against violence, racism and exclusion in all forms. It is what Mrs Catrivanou said that, while our teachers on a number of issues are more familiar, in other words they are less familiar, and we have to deal with this in order to obtain the necessary equipment to deal with all forms of discrimination, to the extent that these forms of discrimination, when we leave them uncontrolled, will end up with this very negative result of intra-school violence. With this logic, then, we started our work at the Ministry and the feedback we are taking is that important initiatives are being developed, which we could encourage. Obviously, and we know that, in order to support all these actions and initiatives, there is a need for a firm framework of structures that will work on a permanent basis in the fight against school violence, but also in its prevention, so that we never reach a point where a tragedy will dramatically stigmatize our school life. In this context, therefore, the Ministry of Education has developed a series - and as I have explained earlier, 'has developed' means that we have taken it and we continue it - from institutional cooperation and structures which we support in order to operate a permanent network of intervention in schools to deal with the phenomenon of intra-school violence. This cooperation network includes measures to prevent and treat practices that may lead to negative events. Our main aim here is to strengthen a permanent network of prevention and treatment of school violence at a pan-Hellenic level, which extends to the entire educational community. The pillars on which the network is based are three. First pillar: Recording, prevention, early diagnosis and treatment at an early stage of school violence. Second pillar: Raising awareness and active participation in the network of the whole educational community, parents and wider society. Third pillar: Responding to the phenomenon of school violence, involving all specialised bodies, in full cooperation with the school community. Some forms that can help - and other speakers have mentioned - are those programmes that are of an experiential nature. It's not just lectures or texts. These workshops will improve social skills and co-existence and cooperation relationships. In addition, the introduction of hearing procedures, when an incident occurs, and the delegation of the role of advisors and mediators to teachers with special knowledge and skills, will enable students to explain their behaviour, express their views, communicate after conflicts or violent actions and try to reconcile one another. I would also mention, for example, what Mrs Catrivanou said to strengthen the role of students themselves in the conflict resolution process, possibly by setting up groups of friendship or mediation, depending on the possibilities of supporting them by school teachers, as well as the development of support mechanisms - that is, we are lagging behind - that is to say, the possibility of recourse to specialized scientists. I say 'we are stalled'. These structures are not nonexistent, but they should be extended to all schools and schools, i.e. there should be psychologists, social workers, etc., so that in cases where it is considered necessary to go to them, they should be asked for their help. It can also help to develop voluntary group activities of interest to students and help develop closer links and partnerships between them and there are much more. To complete this initial position, I would like to say that the implementation of the 'Development and Operational Network for the Prevention and Management of School Violence and Intimidation Phenomena' programme has already begun. That's the network. It is of great importance to us and we will ensure that through the actions and the daily attendance at school we deal with the problem in depth, with stability and not superficially, with cooling, without creating fears or drifting away from cultivating a kind of "ethical panic", mainly because of the way SMEs deal with the issue. In this context, therefore, the existing network of prevention and treatment of school violence and intimidation phenomena is aimed at all students and parents, collaborates with all local prevention networks and, of course, with local communities. At the top of this network there is a central scientific committee, which consists of qualified experts with a long time experience on the subject and which plays a crucial, supportive and advisory role for the whole network. As you know, the network structure extends to thirteen regional training directorates, where thirteen Committees of Action Coordinators and similar regional prevention teams participate, involving over four hundred training staff, while at school level, the network participates sixteen and a half thousand teachers, two per school unit, with continuing training in the issues of dealing with school violence. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I would like some more time, Mr President. Our aim is to strengthen and create structured partnerships in all local communities so that the everyday life of efforts against school violence will become an overall goal in every school, in every neighborhood. The proposals for open school and afternoon, in cooperation with other bodies, especially parents, are certainly in a very positive direction. In order to proceed with this programme, but more so, as mentioned earlier, we are relying mainly on teachers. We need, first of all, educators, with educational equipment, in a sense, in a sense, sensitivities, teachers, who will have more time to create a democratic and pleasant school in which children learn how to reconcile coexistence rules and to which they will learn how to deal with their problems and, above all, how they will not be afraid to talk and react when faced with behaviours that affect them or put them at risk. If culture, climate and the school atmosphere do not change, if there is no mobilisation and a climate of cooperation with common objectives between all the actors in the school community and if teachers do not come forward with a supply of time and energy, in a spirit of contribution, you understand that the democratic, Community, collaborative school and this programme will not work. In closing this first intervention, I would like to reiterate that the new leadership of the Ministry of Education is completely open to both the House and to all actors for the joint preparation of actions and for the study of all proposals that can contribute positively to tackling school violence and towards creating a positive climate throughout the educational community. The rest, if necessary, can then be discussed with the colleagues' comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u180	Minister, I've raised the subject of university departments...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u181	Do not address me, but the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u182	Mr Constantopoulos, the Minister will respond to his second-guess, with my request being more specific, and to other comments - questions which have been asked, despite his fine, low-ton speech. We are starting the positions of the Parliamentary Representatives from Mr Andreas Loverdos, PASOK Parliamentary Representative. When Mr. Loverdos is finished, I ask you not to go swimming in Heraklion, Crete, to sit down on whether you agree to be offered or not. I can't make that decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u183	By me, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u184	Me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. Mr. Synthrakis will speak after you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, if a parent student who has been suffering from bullying was following the debate in the House today, which is very interesting, but who saw that what comes out as a common component by many is that we should discuss this issue and go into the matter, to come up with the necessary measures, he would really feel very bad. It is a matter where the case of Vangelis Yakoumakis has brought it very strongly into the homes of all people, and I do not think there is any reason for us to go into something - nothing - on this matter. What's bullying I think Mr. Kremastino made it clear. What is the problem with Mrs Christophilopoulou and all the PASOK MPs and all parties have identified it. As a matter of fact, this debate is taking place if it is about identifying the problem. This debate has been useful since we debate what we should do. As you can see, a number of things have been done, in a direction of integration now of the actions of the Greek state and you have to do them below. But if, ladies and gentlemen, I also use my own experience as Minister for seven months at the Ministry of Education, the most important problem is what Mr Constantopoulos said, the need to have a mobile intervention unit. Mr. Cremastino showed me something I knew about a while ago, but I didn't have the statistics. The first problem that creates the conditions of bullying is powerlessness, powerlessness on the part of the victim, with a percentage, Professor, 57%. So the mobile unit is alpha and omega. And if you see the problem where there are the structures we've created, but where a manager can't get through it, because he's not there, because he's scared too, because he doesn't understand etc., and you see that as a whole problem, you'll understand that deepening and discussions are good, but they're useless, since we know that problem. What else can we see? The main problem is the existence of this intervention unit, which must work very quickly and give assurance within school, in teaching staff, in pupils, that something is moving in the field of monitoring and intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative and you will allow me to make a reference to the more general ones, as other speakers from the Stepma have done. We have some development, now that we are discussing the issue of school bullying and violence. Why should we not discuss these issues when a crime, such as, for example, against this child in Ioannina, brings it to the news and forget the problem when the news lights out of the crime or the problem. We prove that we have a live memory for big issues like that of bullying. Apart from that, however, this Friday that we are debating, before Monday, which seems to have final decisions, is a moment when the National Representation would be unjustified if it did not have as its first issue the developments that concern the country at 100% of its problems. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we must make a recapitulation before the end of Monday. Everything shows that this is the final moment, but we will see that too. It is now clear that a government made fun of the Greek people, took the legitimacy of popular sovereignty and immediately proved that no plan had, nor how it would unilaterally delete the debt, nor how it would delete the memorandum, how it would be financed by China and Russia, etc. In everything, it turned out there was nothing and the Prime Minister's speech, two weeks ago from the Step, was the confession that he now understood exactly what was happening. Bridges, interim agreements, honest agreements, painful agreements, rhetoric, etc. These are issues that are not understandable to someone who, with an elementary observation, looks at what is happening in our country, at least since 2009. There is no break, ladies and gentlemen. There is a situation in which the country goes to the field of credit events or bankruptcies, folding and humiliated calls for a compromise from much worse positions. This is the break, of which so many Members from the majority so often invoke the value. And finally - we need to understand this very well - where you reached the situation after five months, you have a dilemma both sides are tragic. The only difference between the quantity and the quality of the destruction. The measures against the Greek people have been brought about and the deficits have been the ones that have been since December and then the country has been going nowhere. And what will need to be done in this place if the country goes bankrupt. Or one or the other. That's where you brought things. Yesterday the people in Athens showed something that we have told you many times. I'll tell you very much. I've said that before you take over. You do not have the legitimacy - as you admit - to take the country to the rocks. But if for some of you - I think Parliamentary spokesman Mr Petrakos is one of them, but I'm not sure - we have to follow what we hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u187	Not now, personal reports. In any case, Mr. Petrakos takes notes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u188	Politics, I'm talking. He has the opportunity to speak immediately afterwards. They say a number of ministers, parliamentarians, that the rupture and change of currency or anything that is not something serious and terrible - do not say that openly, but - there is no very serious problem. Some months we'll find our way back. One major minister said yesterday - I heard him - that others will suffer more badly from this suffering of the few months that we will be suffering from incomprehensible scenarios. The people won't let you do that. There's no way. And whoever absolves it despite the popular mandate - which you have admitted is the very opposite of a painful prospect of bankruptcy and bankruptcy and currency change - there is Wade. No Zorba Goude, not the Movement of 1909, but the other one. Because we are not all moderate here, ladies and gentlemen. I aspire to belong there, and I won't move. Never in this Chamber, for 15 years I have served the parliamentaryism I believe, I have not spoken against fellow Members, I have not raised the voice of violence. Never! And I won't. But the country is not made up of moderates. The country has historically proved to be made up of people crossing the line. You are the most characteristic example. There'll be an adversary to this behavior and think about it well. And first of all, let the Prime Minister think about it. And leave the dilemmas you ask us - trying to put them on us - for what position we take. We have made things clear before the elections and what we said was rejected. You who have made fun of the world, promising everything, now have the parliamentary majority. Don't ask us what we need to do about the billions of commitments your delays accumulate. Because every month it passes, in order to find it among you, the people are charged with 500 million to 700 million euros. And these are measures. So don't ask us. You're a hundred sixty-two here. You say every day for five months that you've been making excellent negotiation, which you've been doing for the first time. So you will also support its final product, so that we can see what will happen in this country in the big, critical, major sectors, in education, in energy, in immigration, in health, in all the major issues of the Greek people, the Greek citizen. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the Tsipra experiment has failed and failed miserably. Now he has to think about his people and not about his resignation, because he is the Greek Prime Minister. We do not see him as a representative of a regime, as we were told, as major parliamentarians and ministers of today's majority who told them "when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs" said "no, it's not the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it's the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs". That's what we were told a few months ago. We do not see you as representatives of the regime of persecutors and air-trafficers. We see you as the Greek leaders, those who have democratic legitimacy. He's the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Tsipras. So to think of his people, to think of Greeks and Greek women, to make decisions. He failed and must confess, accept and close matters as soon as possible. Because it seems, ladies and gentlemen, that we are going to a week of political developments and I hope that these will be the best there can be for our country, for the people, for the citizens. This great inconvenience of these last five months, but also of both that preceded the elections, has led to worsening at all levels. Because the country's downhill starts in December 2014, when everyone is sure that we are going to elections. For you have thrown down the previous government and we remember you saying here, threatening every Member who was thinking of voting for a President of the Republic, that he is being funded and being a traitor. That's what you were saying. So since you did it the way you did it, you must now take the responsibilities. We all have to look carefully at what happens today and tomorrow, that is, the present and future of this country and its citizens. There is nothing more serious than the economy, education, health, forms of social intervention, energy, the issues of immigration. These are our issues. Are we going to deal with this? Everything has gone away, because the main, major one in the country - which you brought it there - has become the subject of agreement, of funding, of avoiding bankruptcy. However, we are representatives of the people and cannot leave the other issues aside. So we're here today to discuss school violence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If I can, I'd still need two minutes, Mr. President. We have once again been placed on education issues. We have again been placed, Minister, and you remember that I delivered to you. And I handed things over very thoroughly with the files. The Minister, Mr. Baltas, was not there. He had gone to the Ministry of Culture, but in which I learned that he didn't stay there for long. As if he didn't need us, as if there was a past of so many decades that you didn't care about, because you all knew and would do it. But what was left to do in the matter of school extortion and violence did not happen. I'm not questioning that you're in a good mood. We have noted all the Members of Parliament the style with which you have been placed today and it surprises us positively, because we also remember you in protests against the President of the Republic in Thessaloniki. I think Mr. Drivelegas reminded me. In those provocative actions, whose dark depth will be revealed, it is a matter of time. You are different, otherwise it is good, because it allows us to find a solution for school violence and blackmail. But, my dear Minister, there are more that I will only say with their titles because I don't have time. There are the issues that we are now seeing in their practical implementation of the election - and not of the choice - of the school units by the teachers of each school unit. We've already seen this thing progress in practice. Hey, it's a world originality! I think Mrs Christophilopoulou has said. Not a transfer of the Nordic model, that is, parents, local authorities, even the lessons that a course can include. This is a model that does not go to Greece, because it will be very classic, if it is implemented, but it is a global standard. There, yes, and the address and even with human outsourcing, taking a man who is not in the school unit, but who will be chosen by the local society. These aren't going to Greece. We've discussed them in earlier times. We need other things. You have taken from this world an individual example of the election of directors - I am referring to this issue, because it is going on these days - and you have done so in election, you have given it characteristics that are third-world countries which are avoiding. You have come to party and politicized an area which must not be such, and perhaps this practical implementation - because we are learning its results - will give you an opening for rethinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u189	Mr Colleague, please close, because you have both dentology and tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u190	I'll close, Mr. President. I want to say something that I'm interested in personally. I gave it to you as a topic, I saw the very unfavourable development, and I want to see you here today, because there may be a difficult one, of course, even a little time. We had taken an initiative to discuss with all the universities in Greece - I handed it over to you and delivered the file - to establish, on the initiative of the universities and the TEI, departments aimed at foreign students outside the European Union with tuition and teaching in English. Of all the sections of the universities that were positive one went along, using the relevant legislative intervention, too quickly. The Democritus University, so very serious university - you know well, you are from northern Greece - a university like this, with special roles, making the decision, making all international contacts, being ready and waiting for the presidential decree - blind. I told you this, the presidential decree is a matter of a few weeks, the issue of a week's preparation. So he expects it to be able to implement this very good measure, which and the university's reputation would help, but also a little help in financing it would bring to these difficult times. What happened to this presidential decree, Minister? You've been in charge for five months. I've made seven and everyone in the Department, and I have the honor, if anything asks, to answer it. Because I spent seven months! You're five there! Don't you have the right to see your obligations? It's good to stand up to each other. But now you have the main responsibility and I would ask you to give a picture of what you intend to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo, it's not too much tolerance. It's a lot. Mr Colleagues, I would like to thank you on behalf of your colleagues. You make a commitment to colleagues for exactly six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u192	We allow him more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u193	And one more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for granting time, and at the same time I would ask for the corresponding treatment of time. I think that no one is rushing us into the process that is unfolding. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years a rich reflection has been developed by teachers, parents and students about the phenomenon of intra-school violence. On the occasion of the death of Vangelis Giakoumakis, the debate was even more confusing, looking for answers, complete information about this phenomenon, and even under conditions that the people's family is undergoing anti-grass fire by the governments of New Democracy and PASOK and today's SYRIZA - ANEL. But, in fact, when it comes to what is school bullying or bullying, as it is said, and the reasons for giving birth to him and reproducing him, I think a number of questions should be asked. Is the problem today in schools and what is this problem? Is this a new phenomenon? What causes are these behaviors increasing, particularly in times of crisis? What are the actual targets of the various campaigns of the Ministry of Education of the former and of the campaigns announced by the Minister of Education of this government and the various non-governmental organisations? Eventually, can those who break people and youth with monuments, anti-grass measures, those who blackmail and terrorize the people, be part of the solution to these problems? Let us say that the definition given by the questioners, but also by various governmental and non-governmental organisations, such as the "Net against Violence in School", the Children's Counselor and others, for school intimidation is problematic, unscientific, with the aim and design of breaking down the causal link between two situations, cause and effect. The definition of "nothing and everything", depending on what everyone has in mind, or better what they want to understand. Most importantly, however, it obscure and obscure the social causes, prevents the distinction, between the ordinary experiment, a fight on the game, the friendship that breaks up and then rebuilt, the most natural to manifest itself in the relationship between children and adolescents and the one one one for whom one should be concerned. Suddenly, the notorious non-governmental organisations in the European programmes caught them in the pain of dealing with the problem and all with one voice to renounce violence. The only violence they avoid naming is the violence of the bourgeois power and all forms in which it appears in conditions of monopolistic capitalism and even deep and protracted crisis, where its violence takes form and content. Is it not violence on the perpetual terror of the people, in order not to deviate from the Euromoney, so that the capitalist development path is not called into question and that young people with the European idea, entrepreneurship, business competitiveness, and anti-communism? Cuvets for the violence and exploitation of the employer, at the workplace, especially in the new training children, of the new shift of the working class, which, in the name of their opposite practice, have forced them to work from 15 years to 200 euros, with exhausting working hours. Education policy therefore expresses and reproduces violence. Violence is not the act of legislation that criminalises student struggles and threats to make up for lost hours in the face of threat and punishment for their quest? Isn't the intimidation of prosecutors, police, axes, praetorian teachers and school principals when they're mobilized? Isn't the abolition of thousands of departments and schools? Isn't the financial strangulation of schools? It is this school that hatches the snake's egg, when the historical knowledge of the atrocities and horrors that nationalism and Nazism have caused humanity is not in the priorities of school curriculum. So they came to give lessons to addressing violence. Who? Defenders of raw capital violence. Those who defend their interests, who, in crisis conditions, send out one and a half million workers in the Wars of unemployment and three and a half million to grow with crumbs and below the limits of poverty, which wants the new workers - slaves of EUR 300 and 400, in order to inflate the profits of the capitalists or the vortex of the imperialist wars involving us by the governments, the old and the new ones, in the name of saving Christian populations by the jihadists, to monopolistic groups to control the energy hubs in the region, to expand the naval bases. Who? The eminent terrorists of the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to take my dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u195	You don't have any dentistry, Mr. Synhronakis. Only protology and you have a delicate tolerance on my part.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u196	No, if I'm not mistaken, in consultation with Mr. Metropoulou - I guess he showed me the situation - there is a second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u197	No, there's no dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u198	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u199	Three minutes, that's what I'm saying. It's three minutes of denture. A clear definition of the phenomenon is necessary for the JRC in order to clarify the limits between mere controversies and those of serious forms of school bullying and intra-school violence. Some are amazed and wondered, either by ignorance or consciously, how school by a socialization body that disciplines the principles of equality of respect for each other's diversity to give birth to such phenomena. And they say the problem isn't exactly in school, it's the family itself. However, the morality of urban school stops up there. The fact that the school has turned into a clear-cut vineyard of various business actions by insurance companies, food companies of the 'COCA COLA' type, covering supposedly university research, even UAE, to send armies and fans, is within the sanctuary and loyals of the capitalist meat machine. So if anyone wants to talk about violence, he must look - and above all - beyond the walls of the family. Otherwise, it is not generally the family, but the working people's family, because it is the one that is unable to manage the problem - aggression, cancellation of objectives, insecurity, deprivation, self-control - and equip its members with psychosocial skills. So here is what violence is and, indeed, official and legitimised violence. Legal violence is not being able to educate, not being able to go on vacation, and your classmate tells how nice it's been this summer. Violence is listening to the teacher and teacher's bracelet and you are constantly being "shoulderless", which you have to finish school early - early, to learn some art. How to deal with all these governments and today? The content of the question and the measures proposed are nothing but a reflection of the policies promoted by the European Union and implemented by the previous government. With the consultative telephone lines and online services? With the treatment of training and the speeches of specialist psychologists and psychiatrists? With the Observatorys or with the introduction of 6 March as a day against intra-school violence? So to make the sick, the unacceptable social learning...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Comrade, please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, allow me, I have my right to dentistry and at the same time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Comrade, you have no right to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u203	Give me some time. Show tolerance. It's wrong what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Synatiakis, you haven't even...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u205	And the previous ones...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Synthraki, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u207	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u208	It was wrong what it sounded like. Only Mr Loverdos, as a parliamentary representative of the questioning party, has the right to secondary education. Here's the Rules of Procedure. You saw that I've left you three minutes further, that you had a second, that's the time. But please, not complain to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, allow me, but it does not mean that, because this House has given me the order, with the encouragement of yours, at this point in the position of the representative of the Communist Party of Greece to exhaust all the rigour or reinstate what was done as a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u210	What rigour, Mr. Synchronous? Three minutes I've left you more. What rigor are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u211	Allow me, but even those who are not Parliamentary Representatives and have been placed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u212	Well, don't waste any more time. So you have another minute. Shut up, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u213	...they took protology, dentextology, and had the tolerance of the Bureau. So you're exhausted all your rigour to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u214	I repeat that you neither have any parliamentarian, except Mr Loverdou, a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u215	Yes, in any case, I do not want to personally describe how much everyone has spoken, but show a tolerance. All this rigour to the representative of the Communist Party?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u216	But for 50% of the time I've shown you tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u217	Well, measures, in our view, need to be taken. But, basically, the proposals, which have been heard by the experiential programmes, with the mechanisms for improving social skills, are taking account of the problem, with the aim of emphasizing the same system. Consequently, any psychological practices, the psychiatricization of social phenomena, find us vertically opposing. The real causes that produce and reproduce violence are in themselves the functions of the capitalist system, a system that consolidates the violence and exploitation of human beings. So what everyone has to do - the educational community and before all the students, teachers and parents - is take the case in their hands, regardless of individual intentions and targets. What we believe is that radicalism must meet with the question of youth and children in the working class of this rotten and barbaric system. In this direction, the Communist Party of Greece and the UN will enter this struggle to overthrow a whole rotten system that produces and reproduces these phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Petrakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, before I begin, we had the impression that we had a general debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u220	I've been informed. It was a mistake. In any case, you will also have the corresponding tolerance. There is no way that you and Mrs Asmakopoulou and everyone will not have the appropriate tolerance. But don't tell me you're right to secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u222	But you've done a bullying for me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u223	Please, Mr. Symphony. You spoke ten minutes and you tell me that thing! Start, Mr. Petrako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to point out, in a way, that it was a good thing for the PASOK initiative to discuss this issue. Of course, Mr Loverdou's place is 'top rivers'. We'll talk about this. I would like to stress in a few words the issues of intra-school violence. When we talk about school violence, we have not often realised that we are talking about the result and not about the cause of the problem. In order for there to be a result, however, there is always a reason. So, consciously, public opinion leaders, when they talk about it, are making an effort to convince that this has only to do with various individual conditions. However, the issue also has social causes and a social dimension and cannot be attributed to individual specificities, etc. Incidentally, too, it is often avoided that the student and his family live and are affected by the organization of society and therefore belong to a society. Thus, the way in which the media handles certain standards or promotes standards of violence creates fashion. The economic crisis itself, however, has had negative consequences for children when they are at a vulnerable age. The harder the share of the money comes home, the more tensions and social problems grow. So when the previous political leadership abolished separate health education structures, environmental education, cultural activities, which existed in every county and created a structure that includes all of these, it is essentially a deterioration. And now Mr. Loverdos comes in and asks for the change! For us, in order to tackle the phenomenon of intra-school violence, the school must be not only a place of knowledge but also a place of political and social education. To tackle, of course, the phenomenal role of the state is, first of all, the family and all opinion leaders. So there are too many issues and the Minister has said so. I do not want to stand in detail, but I will stress just two aspects: we often think that, when we show zero tolerance to the mortal, we have done our duty. I do not think that is right. We must be open to dialogue and to those we consider to be the victims, because in most cases they are injured children from various problems. We must therefore strengthen social action. Secondly, we must stress that apart from the perpetrator and victim, what we call 'the third factor' is important and are the observers. The observer, therefore, when sensitized, may contribute to reducing the cycle of violence. However, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as a parliamentary representative, the initiative of your party, as I said many years later, I congratulate PASOK on bringing this issue to the attention of the House - when we talked about violence, I really did not see you react. On the other hand, Mr Kumoutsakos has shown that, apart from intra-school violence, school violence, there is also violence against the country and the people from the community in which it is located. But yesterday, from what I saw, you applauded some people who were calling for the Yunker measures to be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u225	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u226	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u227	We saw them in the photos. They're in the papers today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u228	Do you identify us with them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u229	Anyway, not to applaud yourself personally, Mr. Loverdos, but to the contrary...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u230	Don't interrupt. Mr. Loverdos has a denture and he'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u231	However, in the face of the misfortune of the creditors in our country, we have not seen you react. We didn't see you talking at all. On the contrary, you spoke and told us: "Tsipras failed. What's he doing?" Really? How's Tsipras? He's fighting for the future of this country, for that country that you brought to the rocks. You sent it to the rocks with your policy in 2009 and 2010. You sent the country to the rocks. You refused the debt haircut then. You agreed to turn the private debt of the banks and the crisis of the private banks of the Eurozone into a debt crisis of Greece and the Greek people and to lead the country to the memorials and ask us for the change and tell us to apologize to Tsipras, who failed and what he does to the various sectors? And you say it today: 'What is Tsipras doing in the various sectors?' After you also spoke about energy, the biggest development project of the last decade was signed. The new European pipeline, the Greek gas pipeline, which will bring 50 billion cubic metres of gas to central Europe, will give twenty thousand jobs, will be financed directly with EUR 2,000,000 and will be 50-50 and not without funding, as you did 100-0 in favour of the Azeri company. It'll be 50-50. This is what Tsipras is doing today and will do much more on Monday as the entire government, which is fighting for a future in this place. You, however, come and repeat like some systemic media, which are welcome today. I read an article and I read the contents down. "The role of the IMF" is now written in a title and rejoices with it. So we're responding. The Greek people, the Greek Government and the country themselves are not blackmailed, they are not subjected. We call on the Greek people to face the sirens of extortion and terrorism, which give a risk recital that is currently in place, to close their ears, to remain calm and to be sure above all that this government is struggling to see that there is a prospect in this place. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We have tabled proposals. It is also the responsibility of the partners to find a solution. And you must know, Mr Loverdo, indeed, the Minister said and I must tell you more typically: if we are tightened by the knife in the neck, you must react, since this is an intra-school violence, and you must tell them what I am about to say. The knife has two sides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u232	Christ and God bless you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u233	But we don't want to use any knifes. We are told by the Prime Minister that only with solidarity, democracy and mutual respect can the solution be found in the crisis. But will you react? Will you demand mutual respect for your country and your people?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Comrade, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u235	You will require solidarity from the partners...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u236	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u237	...or are you going to keep saying it's the Greek Government's fault because it's fighting? Will you accept tomorrow to participate in a top parliamentary procedure that we propose in order to have a debate in the House, in the House of Parliament, on how the debt was created and to strengthen the fight to demand the removal of the largest part and its reduction? Are you going to talk about these issues? Will you join the struggle to avoid these, not to be accepted and not to give in to our country against the misdeeds of extortion, or will you continue to join the creditors' side and say, 'bravo, do well and pressure this government, why not sign it on the first day'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Comrade, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u239	This is your argument so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Petrakos, please, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u241	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u242	Finish it up. You've been talking twice a year already.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u243	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u244	No, there's no "sir" in that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, the debate is a general one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u246	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u247	Now, what's your problem? It is a general debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u248	Finish it, please. There's no objection to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u249	Same again. It is a general debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u250	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u251	I'll finish with you and interrupt. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u252	What's your request? Finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u253	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Democracy, Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor for six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing bullying, intra-school violence and, as you can see, I should like to reply to Mr Petrakos, which was accepted by us, and we are pleased that an enlarged debate is taking place on such an important subject. My worthy colleagues have given me a great deal of evidence, which prescribes the existence of the phenomenon of intra-school violence. For a short time, I will only tell you that there is an investigation from the "Smiling of the Child", which says that Greece is the fourth among the forty countries that exist in the field of intra-school violence. The Ministry of Education's Observatory in 2015 records that 34% of students admit that they have exercised violence and that this is usually done in the yard and also is done during the break. For the Minutes, I draw some conclusions from this investigation, which I believe are interesting. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The first step in tackling a problem, of course, is its recognition and its emergence, and this, despite the excellent documentation that exists, was made on account of the tragic death of the twenty-year-old Vangelis Giakoumaki, who, as you know, disappeared from the Ioannina Dairy School on January 6th of this year and was found thirty-seven days later in a field of the region. The result is that now there is an investigation because the Prosecutor of Primary Ioannina was prosecuted for intent homicide. This tragic event, let me bring you, of course, upset all the Greeks, certainly made us all aware, but in particular in the closed Ioannina society it shocked the world. It shocked the world that this child could have hadn't turned, that this could have happened, and no one could've taken it, that this could have happened, and no one could have talked about it, how the whole society could have prevented it. As a minimum tribute to the memory of this new man who has been wrongly lost, we must be united in dealing with this issue. Of course, there are too many proposals to deal with this issue and I refer to proposals put forward by the Children's Counselor, for example. But I think there is no reason to invent the wheel every time we face a problem in our country, there are international practices, many commonly used to deal with the problem. I would like to turn back to the Minutes, please, a few examples. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I hope the Minister will take it into account, as will the proposals put forward by the Opposition on this matter. Although I must admit, Minister, that I am not very optimistic about the effectiveness with which you will address this issue, because I have seen how you are dealing with education in general. Although I do not have time to develop this at the moment, I honestly tell you that I am sorry, because we see that your Government is going so far back to this important area of education, at all levels, in secondary, tertiary, in higher education, in abolishing things that society and the political system have demanded and succeeded years now, such as asylum or the way in which universities and the partitioning of all structures of secondary and tertiary education began to be conducted modernly. So let me not be very optimistic that you will be able to deal with efficiently and without idealism and with an open mind on this subject, even when it unites us. Let me also speak as a mother, because I have a child at an age who is particularly concerned with this issue, a child who - like all the children of this generation - is lost on the Internet and I, as a working mother, have a little time to work with him, much less than I would like. So I think one thing is the standards that we give to children. And what standard does the political system give? What standard do we give in this Chamber when we are confronted? What model do those who perform institutional functions within the political system, such as the President of the Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulou? What's Mrs. Constantopoulos doing in here? Bullying does to parliamentarians and police! How is Mrs. Constantopoulou doing everywhere, except projecting herself? Bullying does Mrs Constantopoulou. And I am referring to it, because it is an institutional role. In the political system - and I am coming back to my other capacity - we are faced with remote windows in terms of political bullying. My son when he watches television talks about who "flyed" who or who said the best line. Mr Petrakos before, at this critical moment for the country where we have little time in front of us - there is this deadline until Monday for what will happen - he described the negotiating strategy and the whole deal by the government in terms of bullying. He said, "We will not be tolerated by our lenders"! Excuse me, Mr. Petrakos, but we refuse to see Greece in the role of the victim. We are not a victim, but a sovereign state! Yes, of course we do not want and will not tolerate the humiliation and subjection to which you lead us in your failed way of negotiating.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u256	You've signed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u257	Listen. You can't hear it. This is the bullying of yours, which will not pass on to the Greek people! Because the first way to deal with the bullying is to break the silence. And you saw it last night in the Constitution the breaking of silence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u258	Long live juncker propositions! That's what they said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u259	The silent minority of Greek citizens are currently struggling and watching a government that is completely lost. He doesn't know where he's going, he doesn't know what to do. While the whole world describes the situation in a certain way, today it comes out of Maximus and says that it is optimistic that everything will go well, that we have achieved something! What did we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u260	The debate at political level!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u261	Do we have the two options in front of us, which I'm going to describe as follows? A deal with measures of EUR 5 billion on the Greek people's back, on the one hand, and exiting the euro on the other? And you say, Mr. Petrako, that the Greek people should close their ears? Don't listen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u262	Don't listen to your danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Petrakos, the Greek people listen and see and judge!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u264	And those who cause them to make their money out of the banks!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u265	Mrs Asimakopoulou, you refer to this House. You're not talking about somewhere in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u266	Yes, Mr. President. Is it possible, Mr President, for the Greek people to listen to the representative of SYRIZA to say that our answer to the lenders who bully us must be: 'the knife has two sides'? I would like to inform you, Mr President, that, in exercising opposition, the New Democracy has been highly consensual. He has called on Mr Tsipras to take national conciliation initiatives, even at the last minute. Do not think that our patriotism and our disposition for national understanding are weakness. Don't take it that way. It's not. We are not going to let Mr Tsipras and the government have the knife that has two sides to use to make the carnival for Greece to leave Europe and go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u267	You bankrupt the country three times, Mrs. Asmakopoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u268	We are not going to allow it to be allowed to be counter-population either, but much more the Greek people will not tolerate your own bullying at all levels. And he proved it last night, when too many people united their voices to say it self-evident, that in this country those who want Greece in Europe, those who do not want the country to go bankrupt, said with one voice last night: We are here too and not forget it! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight teachers and students from universities in Greece, America, Canada and the Netherlands. The House welcomes them. Welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On behalf of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, on behalf of Mrs Despina Sveroni - Chondossi, for six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's a serious matter. I, too, thought, because - apart from economics, which are major issues - an issue like this, which is about intimidation in schools or not, it is something that concerns all of us in this Greek Parliament, the national Parliament - I do not know until when we can call our Parliament national - that there would be many interested colleagues. And I do not know, of course, whether my fellow Members still give me the right to call them that. There has been a lot of talk here about intimidation, of all kinds of intimidation, but also of intra-school. However, by making our endorsing everyone, we should be quiet for a while, because at least I say it and say it again and I would like it to be the last time: in the national Parliament I experienced intimidation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u271	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u272	Here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u273	Here? You personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u274	Look, let me tell you something, personally, Professor, when I get up here in Stepma, I'm Miss Sveroni-Hondonasius and I'm a member of the Golden Dawn. But everyone is also identified as a person and as a place, Mr. Loverdos. There is nowhere collective responsibility, neither in the parties nor in the groups of people. But you - I'm not talking about you personally, but just because you answered me - when it's said on my own that anything goes through red - or I don't know how your lines are interrupted. The interruption, which I accept every time, whether I am in committee or I am in plenary session, makes me feel like I am a child and a person of a lower god, that you belong to another society and we are somewhere else. It's just like I'm telling you and I'm sorry. You know, I didn't feel fear. Very small may, yes. Later on in our state, in Greek territory, although I was practicing a profession - a profession, a lawyer, who also has his risk, I was not afraid. But I first felt fear and I showed it - and I will present it, Mr President - as a mother when I was terrorized to read from the democratic and progressive forces outside the school building - as we speak about intra-school violence: 'Let us break the nazis of the Golden Dawn once and for all'. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Despina Sveroni-Hondonasios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] While we say that everyone has the right to self-determination, you do not recognise that to us. You don't recognize the right to tell you 'we're them, we're not some others'. You say 'no, you are not what you seem to be.' And how do you know who we really are? Do you have any other possibilities? Do you have any magical powers we don't have? "You're not that, you're nothing else. You are nazi". Hey, no, gentlemen. I am sorry to say this, but I also feel that I am the victim of this intimidation and would like to say it from a step in the House. We are neither racist nor fascists, nor old-fashioned, nor neo-nazi. And what you are doing is disastrous, because you teach young people and young people, you teach pupils, all those who follow the Greek - national - I still say - Parliament, what violence is going to say. It's like saying that if anyone attacks my son or Mr. Pappa's son, since he belongs to the space called Golden Dawn and when it's prompted by young people "screw them", then everything is allowed. Therefore, violence is characterised by where it comes from and to whom it is directed. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] Mr President, if I have your tolerance, just a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u275	You're welcome, Mrs. Sveroni.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said about violence. I feel once again that in Greece and the Greek Parliament, we are very good at analyzing and analyzing and analyzing in the analysis and there somewhere to lose ourselves and strongly criticise each other, government, opposition and say "we are the best" and "we are the worst" in the words, of course always and always stay there. While we should now say, 'Let's just do something about it', we say 'we then, yesterday, the other day,' and we move the finger to each other. I, ladies and gentlemen, have to tell you something that comes from our Constitution. Is there faith in the Trinitarian God of our fathers, in the Greek Orthodox tradition? Is that faith? Do you know why I'm saying it? Because the official religion of the state is of the Eastern Orthodox Church. There isn't, obviously not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, this is all I can do, please. It's not bad, you say atheists. At least the progressive, the left side you declare atheists, but you will allow me to say that I call you pagans. You are just idolaters and believe more in man, in your idol. So you believe in some idols and beyond yourself, depending more on the creation and not the creator, and that is where I think you have lost your orientation. You considered other idols or demonized them, depending on where you are ideologically, such as Marx, Lenin, Smith, Nietz, Hitler, Stalin, Mao, Microsoft and more modern. And what I have to say to you - it's not something new - it's very important. Because it's very important, I haven't said so. It has been said by this God to whom we believe, that God to whom, at least in accordance with the Constitution, we must give this oath. What am I telling you? That what is missing, ladies and gentlemen, is love, because the Greek Orthodox faith is based on love and not only on "love one another", but on "love your enemies". And since I do feel a mere daily man, all I can say to you is words of the Great Apostle, the great Apostle of the Nations, the Apostle Paul: “If the tongues of men speak, and of angels, and I have no love, because of copper sound, or cymbal arrogant. And if I have prophesying, and see the mysteries all, and all the knowledge, and if I have all the faith, that mountains shall be drunk, but I have no love, neither shall I." We're nothing. What is missing from all of us - I hear about people, about democracy and others - is love. When love prevails, then all these peculiarities that we say exist in humans and events will be alleviated. What prevails is love. So I would ask you, even if you do not believe in the Trinity God, at least as philosophical texts, to read the Fathers of the Church, especially the Apostle Paul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u277	Thank you. Mr. Nikolaos Orphanus from the river has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u278	I'll try to be brief. I'm trained to speak quickly, even though I'm stressing my listeners. Ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of today's debate is the death of a new man, unfortunately. On this occasion today, not only can we be proud, but we must also admit the state's failure to tackle the phenomenon of intra-school violence seriously. We all have to admit the lack of a policy to prevent the phenomenon which, if it were, probably today's debate would define it as another context and not a death. Four months ago this child lost his life in a school in Ioannina. It was, as everything showed, the leading act of intimidation that has ever occurred in an educational establishment in Greece. For a long time, Potami has identified the lack of policies to prevent intra-school violence, and two months ago we proposed the joint meeting of the Committees on Social and Cultural Affairs on this issue. What for? For we believe that, before they come here to speak, the Members must first listen to the institutions, parents, teachers, teachers and those who have dealt with the phenomenon, to see in detail what is happening and then come here and become self-invited paedophiles and analyse our views. I submit our request to the minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Orphanos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Despite our repeated disgrace to the Bureau of Parliament, we have faced absolute indifference. Even now, after so long, with this timely question, let us reflect the "father" in our social mirror and try to do something essential. I read in PASOK's question that as early as 2009 the Ministry of Education has been planning and implementing innovative policies and actions to inform pupils, parents and teachers. But two paragraphs before, I am reading about the failure of all the things described below in detail, as there is the assumption that in recent years there has been an outbreak of the phenomenon in schools. So where are we today? The Ministry re-evaluates - elsewhere we want evaluation and elsewhere we do not want it - this innovative framework of action to prevent and deal with it and operates in recent years. That was the answer I received on 30 March to a relevant question from the Minister, which I am also presenting in the Minutes, so that I do not give you any more details. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Orphanos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must tell the truth, as the Prime Minister likes to say. The innovative framework that supposedly reassesssssssss the Ministry in detail, etc. And what PASOK claims to have happened, in fact, is that in recent years they have been absent from school life and day-to-day life. The phenomenon of intra-school violence is currently being addressed only by the encouragement of school advisors to implement programmes for management of emotions, anger, acceptance of diversity. The famous Prevention Observatory of School Violence is not working and has never actually worked, as has the training of teachers that has never been done. And here I fully agree with the phrase that I also read in PASOK's question of unprecedented state inaction to suppress the phenomena of intra-School violence and intimidation. Yes, as a general rule, the Greek state does, inactivates. And do you know where he's acting as a priority? In what everyone mentioned, prevention. What does it mean to prevent? Where does it start? In practice, what exactly is it? At Potami we are constantly calling, as a priority, for the quality of Greek education. That is where we believe and claim to be the key. What kind of schools do we want, what grades, what kind of high school, what universities, what do we want students to learn in primary school, what are they teaching in secondary school, what supplies they have taken in graduation from university and, above all, what kind of citizens to be? To have education with democratic ideals, yes, but what treatment to gain, what morality, what behavior? I will mention here the remarkable survey by the World Values Survey, the World Value Survey of the homonymous research institute. Note: in the question 'what elements or values do you consider important to have a child?' the element of tolerance and respect for others was in our country at least as important as they were in any other country. Greece was in its sixty-nine rankings in sixty-nine countries. Who was near us at the bottom, but just above us? Uganda, Saudi Arabia, Algeria and Pakistan. We must therefore concentrate on prevention rather than repression. The repression, when it comes, will be too late. What teacher will punish and how? We're talking about juvenile abuse. In what knowledge, what training and on the basis of what criteria will the instructor intervene in a way that is pedagogically appropriate, careful, so as not to stigmatize the child, not to create additional exclusion and a new victimisation and, indeed, in a way that is both penitentiary or, say, reproach? Anyway, let's call it whatever we want. If the problem starts with family - which usually starts - what can the defenseless teacher, professor, do, who is loaded without protection and of course without control? We must stop doing that we do not see our problematic educational process. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen - and here we are actually entering into prevention - the appalling increase in cases of school violence in pre-school age? Considering how critical the infancy years are to shape the character of man, according to modern pedophilia, we understand that the perpetrators and victims are being consolidated too early. So if we are talking about prevention, we will start and disagree with Mr Loverdo, because the mobile unit, Mr Loverdo, is the omega, is not the alpha. The alpha starts here. So to rebuild our pre-school education, children's stations as centres for children's development and socialisation, as centres for encouraging and highlighting their skills. Research shows that pre-school education and education determines at least one third of the future success or failure of man. Inequality will not be fought unless we give all children equal opportunities. Combating inequalities means more happy children, but in fact what does it mean? Happy children are not hitting, insulting, abused and fighting violent behaviour means fighting all exclusion, accepting diversity, etc. They were raised by colleagues. Here, Minister, let me tell you exactly the context so that you do not look at how to activate children and how to make actions to accept diversity. There's a treatment frame that's ready. It contains all of this and it is called "theatrical treatment" and "theatrical game", as the highest treatment that the child is socializing and learns from speech handling, empathy, tolerance to diversity, the position of the other, group, collaborativeness, awareness of imagination, too many things. There's everything in there. This lad in Yannna is gone. What have we done to prevent and provide care in the first year, especially in universities, which is the first time that the child has left the family and is removed from home? The stress that families have in view of the pan-Hellenics, when they give their children, is nothing ahead of stress when the child leaves for the first time and goes to a foreign city. Is there anything wrong? Instead of prioritising the democratisation of education, should we help teachers to combat the phenomena of violence with protection, with a clear framework? To conclude, because time is limited, there must be compulsory treatment of violence, no tolerance to indifference. Anyone who does not care must be accountable. We are proposing to create a platform for experts to detect any malfunctioning. Advisory, pedophiles and social workers in schools and universities. So many psychology schools, Minister, should we not channel the Greek psychologists where they are primarily necessary? We're still away from a joy school. We are, however, taking a big step today. We stop practicing in denial. We have a unique opportunity to work not only for our children, but for this lad to be the last to be lost by such a situation, by what we call 'intra-school violence'. Of course, these actions must be implemented regardless of economic negotiations. Don't listen again, "We don't have any money. How are we going to fix all this?" Will, check, evaluate, schedule and plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, too. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has the floor on behalf of the Independent Greeks. Here, Mr. Nicholas, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, today's meeting is certainly devoted to the unjust death of the student at the Ioannina Faculty of Dairying. It is the least - and the best at the same time - a memorial that Greek and Greek MPs could offer in this tragic case that happened some time ago. But, a little while ago, we too were here in the Chamber, as well as all the Greeks and all the Greeks who, from the channel of the Parliament, are attending the meeting, a colleague of the "Samaroguard" to talk about the "bullying" that this government does. As I was listening, I was thinking about that famous movie entitled "Look who's talking." Is that possible? Is it possible at the same time to hear this from the Step of the House by those who led thousands of people to suicide, others in psychiatric hospitals and millions of Greeks in the legacy of poverty? They may say here, without a word, 'We are not going to allow Mr Tsipras...'. What? How? That's not what they told us. What do they mean? Do they have something they shouldn't tell us? They're building destabilization plans? Is that the national big deal Mr. Samaras wants? Really? In a new government, with this fresh mandate, how will the overthrow take place? I guess not with tanks. Protests from the pot? How's it going to happen? With the media? Ladies and gentlemen, to these "Samarowadians" who are the same people who were going to the hospitable channels of the interlocutory and are being sanitized by the Greek Government for the advance it would take as it would sign an agreement on the pipeline, you will allow me to present them - I cannot do anything else unless they consider this to be "bullying" - this extraordinary news that my partners have now downloaded from the Internet. I read: "Ectural: The Greek Stream pipeline has been signed! The first advance of EUR 3 billion comes.’ It also has the relevant statements by the Minister, Mr Lafazani. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They're the same faces that came out and then with hail, like they're coming out and now, as if they don't want us to succeed. I wonder: isn't any of their friends telling them, by their relatives, that this message is transmitting? So today, when we have devoted - and rightly so - our plenary session to intra-school violence, today that especially Greeks and Greeks are feeling this violence of the Eurobaroles, we are now a few hours before the end of a long-term tough negotiation. And I cannot and do not want to believe that this difficult but also nationally necessary coexistence with Europe will be overthrown. Even now I believe that we will reach a European solution to the problem that is afflicting us. I believe that we will sign an agreement that will include the strong assurance of debt regulation, the removal of all welfare for low pension cuts and wages. Such a deal we want to sign. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The other versions of the solution, such as the extension of the programme, will certainly be worse both for Greece and for Europe. The Euro-Broys, therefore, think that we will either be saved together or all will be drowned, since they did not like the precedent that my colleague has heard that one non-agreement will not be lost on either side, but they will be both. I hope and believe, like all the Greeks, that they will take responsibility for a decision and do not just sign another decision with such a huge burden. We therefore want Europe. We do not want our constant intimidation and extortion in any way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two words in closing this report on the major issue of the forthcoming agreement on behalf of the Independent Greeks. I want to welcome the gathering - a course where over fifty organisations call on Sunday in Brussels on 21 June European citizens to support the Greek people and against austerity, within the framework of the European week of solidarity with the Greek people. In the resolution they have adopted, they say: 'It is imperative to change course'. They say: "If they continue on the same road, the only result will be the deterioration of inequality and unemployment in Greece". In closing the resolution, they say that the same danger is not only threatening Greece but all the other countries of the European Union. They also say: "We declare solidarity with Greece", "Yes, another way is possible for the good of all of us, a vision of economic progress and social justice". So, at this time, I can say very soon that school bullying, depending on the means used by the perpetrator, to harm his victim, takes different forms. And we often observe the strongest child to gain benefit from his practice, such as pleasure, prestige, material possessions, while the weakest child cannot protect himself in a substantial and radical way. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am sure you know that in Norway in the 1970s a university professor, Dan Olveus, was the first to deal with bullying. So he designed a central program for all the schools in the country. There someone finds concrete actions that schools need to implement in a school year. There is already an evaluation of all these concrete actions that have been implemented by municipalities, as well as other bodies. We propose with one reason to see it, to study it, to look into it, to look into the Ministry and the services, and - why not - to do so too. This should be done at each school with an organised joint project, which can ensure the success of a similar programme. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there are surely others who need such training. That's us, parents. Our proposals are the 'programming' of the project. Assign the state - perhaps through the NRP - to universities with psychology departments, which are related to sociology, to design a specific programme with evaluation actions and criteria, which will be controlled for all schools in the country and for all levels. The same should be done with the parents' schools that the municipalities have. And in case some municipalities don't have to create. It can also be extended to professionals, i.e. at the workplaces of coke. A need for teachers to find that they are lacking is the specialty of the social worker and psychologist from general education, primary and physical secondary schools. The programme should include workshops in the form of workshops for teachers, particularly in secondary education, because the biggest problem is that they do not have educational studies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u281	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u282	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because most of us have the blessing of being parents, and because, as you know, it all starts with the family, and parents must take initiatives together with the state, we must monitor the evolution of the situation and work closely with the school, talk about these problems to the director or the teacher of the class, and work together to get help. All of this is a number of direct actions in terms of prevention and treatment, on which the Ministry of Education, the educational community and, of course, the parents can move forward. By themselves, however, they cannot solve the problem of intimidation and violence at school. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for this reason, the state must be a firm man in the efforts that teachers, parents and others must make with a common objective, to eliminate the phenomenon of intra-school violence. The state will soon have to implement actions in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Ladies and gentlemen, the circle of parliamentary representatives has been completed. We shall now give the floor to Mrs Christophilopoulou for a second reading. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u284	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, we have every reason on our part as a PASOK Parliamentary Group to welcome the level of the debate on the issue of intra-school violence, which we had the initiative to bring to Parliament. I think, Minister, that I must make two, three comments on what I have heard both from you and colleagues. First of all, in agreement with the points made by many colleagues, and in particular by Mrs Catrivanou on experiential education and training, I would like you to see a previous programme that has been and has experiential elements. This is the Major Training Programme, which we consider to be in this direction, and I believe that there is a consensus of this House here. My second comment concerns what you said, Minister. And here I agree with Mr Loverdos: in the words we will agree, but we will have to see it in practice. You talked about diversity, about making schools and the educational world accept diversity. That is right, Mrs Catrivanu spoke before about homophobic violence and racism, and you said, again, quite rightly, about interculturalism. Mr President, it is well known that the PASOK governments have introduced interculturalism into schools and this institution. Minister, I'll wait to see what you're going to do about this. Do you know why? Because it is not certain that it will be easy to go through things. I hope that you do not do things that Parliament will need, because the co-chairmen, whom you have chosen, your ANEs, are mainly nationalists, populists and do not accept interculturalism or other forms of violence, such as homophobics. I think you understand, as do the Chamber. And I would like to remind you of the recent example of the mosque, where we were the first to say that we will support it. Because, Mr President, butter at the bread of the opposition is when the government is at the moment losing the declared bills - not the generally declared one. Well, we won't do that on the subject of citizenship, which is still our law, Ragosi. Because that sounded like it. The PASOK government brought citizenship law and the S.T.E. had a problem. Where, in what background policies will you be based, Minister, on interculturality, as well as mosques, citizenship and other such major issues relating to attitudes and perceptions? We will therefore wait, Minister, to see your specific initiatives to strengthen the network. This network against school violence must be made more active and its presence in schools. Here too, we must discuss and do what you committed to your first speech, that you will convene the committee, so that we can see very specifically your proposals and the results of the initiatives you take. Finally, Mr President, Mr Petrakos, speaking on the subject of school violence, once again spoke to us about the media that presents a model of violence. Sure, I'll say. And the movies, too, a lot of the TV rings. But is that the issue? There are two aspects to this issue. There is also the aspect of the standards that we politicians are cultivating. In recent years and outside with the indignant and those who were indignant after '12 entered the House had hate sermons for the Greek state, hate for those with whom they did not agree and divide the people and brought us into civil war situations. Aren't those standards of violence? Also, building permanently internal and external enemies, as the government systematically does at the moment, is not a model that proves to us today on the occasion of intra-school violence? Answer me about that. Also, answer me what standards of co-operation and understanding are the Bureau of Parliament presenting? And I am not talking about the honourable Vice-President, Mr Balafa, who is in the Chair, but about the President of the Parliament, which we had the unfortunate initiative to vote on. What are the standards that the Bureau of Parliament with the President presents? Consent or 'decide and order'? So it makes sense not only to build the enemies in and out of the country, in and out of our party, to see, to cross a line and exercise a violent propaganda, but between us and between us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with one final comment. Just as the Greek Parliament was able to reach an agreement today - and we are very pleased that the initiative is ours, but the good news is for all the parties that came here and we discussed and exchanged views - we have been able to reach agreement, so we have to know. We are constantly saying this, and we are fed up with saying this in all directions that the country is now in need, more than ever, of national understanding. And national understanding with hate sermons can't be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, too. I think that from the honourable Members there is no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u286	There are, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u287	I see here in the list given to me by Mr Kaklamanis - which is why I ask you - that all the prototypes have been made on your behalf. Are Mr. Koutsoukos and Mr. Konstantopoulos left?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u288	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u289	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u290	You have the floor for three minutes. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u291	First of all, Minister, I would like an answer to the University of Agrinio. However, Minister, it is worth wondering how in such a period of time crucial to our country you are not seeking wider consensus on problems that are important in the functioning of education. I would remind you that you have just finished the transfers a few days ago, and you still haven't come up with what you are going to do with the transfers, the secondments, the operation of the EGTC schools, the credits, the appointments and a number of other issues. We are used to hearing about the bill 'gull', as you have said, but it is rather a tablecloth, which you are aiming at depending on the appetite of your interlocutors and the close trade union perceptions they express. How else could your incomprehensible obsession be justified to bring in and to legislate, in the urgent procedure, on the change of executives with a legislation that is totally sketchy and disastrous for many schools in our country? Even yesterday - and perhaps today - you are forced to sign precise circulars for the procedure of the election of directors and vice-presidents of the school units. I fear you will do the same after the end of the proceedings. We have warned you, Minister, about this process that it may sound democratic, but it requires preparation and culture in schools, so that problems and side effects do not arise. You insisted, for allegedly intra-selections of 2011, with L.3848/2010 and the interviews process, which, as you mentioned in your report, L.4327/2015, were anachronist and the selection councils chose the ‘dates’. But you have confirmed the opposite in the clearest way. Do you know, Minister, that the choices of school managers in primary education are 90% validations of the choices made in 2011? Is there any stronger, more undeniable proof of the vindication of L.3848/2011 and the attempt of PASOK to select training executives objectively and beyond party references and pathogens of the past? You had to make the necessary improvements and proceed calmly and in the right time in terms of options. Why so much study? Is the problem of training her executives? Are the elite bodies that are formed for once and where do they decide? The new training directors will soon be selected, for which the Vice-Presidents will also be voting. While, at first, you said only directors at 20% of the seniors and kindergartens, you counted something, of course, then it didn't take you out. It is a process which is taking place within the licenses of teachers, and with no possibility of the candidates meeting the teachers who will vote for them and not even know what will happen. Doesn't that scare you? Finally, what you are interested in is for some to leave and come, as long as they serve creative ambiguity that you are engaged in in theoretical wrapping and, in practice, democrats, why are they not in favour of evaluation, but in favour of the complex valuation, which you describe verbally, but are not legally illusory? Minister, the way in which you handled regional choices has shown us the way and the way in which you are going to follow the political unworthy of religion. You announced that, in order to speed up more than 50 teachers to apply and finally to select those who you have already decided, without even setting up an evaluation committee, for the eyes of the world. You are also entitled, of course, to the teachers who will be chosen - and to whom we wish every success in their work for the sake of education and our children - to justify your commitments and trade unions. For PASOK and for all of us, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the area of education is not much more available for conflicts and conflicts. We will not follow your logic, which, as an opposition, undermined every initiative by the government. The worst part was that you did not participate in any institutionalised dialogue process, with pre-formative excuses, technical tensions and polarisations around evaluation and availability. We, Minister, are here, with proposals and positions, with a view to making a real contribution to strengthening public and free education, strengthening structures and innovations, which we are glad to see you also want to take advantage of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u292	Thank you. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, Minister, I think the positive nature of the PASOK initiative has already emerged. I would like to point this out, by welcoming both the position of the Minister in the climate that has become, as well as several members of the government, in particular Mrs Catrivanou and the other wings of this House. So what we feel is a debt, that is to say take initiatives which make sense of a society of values, through which we must address all the phenomena of violence and, in particular, of the school we are talking about today, and we will do so for other major social issues. The question is what the government will do from now on, taking advantage of all this debate, and what initiatives will it take, both in the social field and in the field of the day-to-day management of power, which you now hold, Minister. And we will judge you from that. I think I don't need to expand any further. We'll wait for the government's initiatives, and we'll be here. But the second thing I would like to point out, Mr President, because our debate took place at a time when Greece hangs on a thread, we cannot - in the spirit of the responsibility we have been dealing with so far as PASOK and has suffered everything that we have suffered and the responsibility we have shown by making tough decisions - tolerate even today a 'violence' policy against us, which says, 'if we fail, it will be your fault'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u294	Nice!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Petrakos said so. For God's sake! We gave you so many chances. We encouraged you, we helped you. Has Mr Venizelos arrived to send a letter to the leaders of the socialist parties who participate in most governments and say'support, do what you have not done to us, who have been hard to treat us' and will you ask us for the floor at the end? Please take the decisions that are to take and do not share this policy of violence, against those who have paid and have been beaten to be Greece here today and to negotiate and assume your responsibilities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. We must give the floor now to the Minister for secondary education. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u297	I'll talk much less. I think that all the issues have been raised. Two observations will be made on the question raised by Mr Constantopoulos on the University of Patras in his protagonists for the decision of the Conference of the University of Patras, which - I would say - is a way of countering regional decentralisation and the right of Agrinio to have schools. We'll have to discuss it very seriously. Of course, every university has the self-employed, but it is very difficult for me to accept that Agrinio will be stripped of services which they offer in any case. We have to come to a consensus, see what best we can do toward the aid side, not weakenment, I would say. On the question raised for foreigners, I was informed, Mr Loverdos, that there is a problem with the dossier. I don't think that's a pretext. Let's see, if there's any problem with the file, how it can be settled under the law. For the rest we have discussed, I would say that we will have the opportunity in the joint committee to look at them. But we have to know - and I am closing down with this - that measures against school violence, as well as fine measures and take as many observatories as we can and build up structures, violence and intimidation are situations which are proportionate to social injustice. School doesn't make it, just making school. School is not an island within a sea, where class inequality, national fanaticism dominate, but I would also say lack of education structures, downgraded technical education. I would say that we cannot combat violence and school intimidation unless we really deal with aiding teaching, additional teaching support, if we do not deal with reception sections of immigrants, the repatriated students, who are allowed to fight many times in an incomprehensible, foreign and hostile language environment. In the bill we bring you will see that the first article - and for symbolic reasons - on the part concerning primary and secondary education is for aiding teaching. We will have the opportunity to discuss all this. And one last reference to the question of the election of school advisors. We were accused of putting the election procedure in order to party with it. It has already been stated that 90% of the directors already elected were the former directors. That's how the industry decided, that's what he did. And that is a very good argument to fear that we would put the voting procedure in one-third and the other two-thirds would be qualified by teachers to change connections. The results show that neither such an intention nor confirmed. I would therefore say that anything that tends, in our view, to the democratisation of the school at every level and that concerns today's subject, I think we should strengthen it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Minister. PASOK Parliamentary spokesman Mr Loverdos has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u299	The first and most specific thing I want to say to the Minister is the main issue of our topical question. I, too, expressed my support for the whole PASOK parliamentary group, stressing the fact that on all sides of Parliament it has been noted how important this issue is and emphasised our initiative to bring it to Parliament. In order for the successful outcome to be practical, however, you must say, Mr Kourakis, what comes from dialogue. I told you in my own speech, making my evaluation - I am a teacher and I have the experience of the Ministry of Education - that the first thing it needs at the moment, after a dialogue that has matured, is the immediate intervention units and I have explained it. I would like you, in your own assessment, to say what the National Representation concludes from a debate of so many hours. What is the profit for the parent, for the impotent student, who suffers from school violence and intimidation? What is this, that when you go to your ministry this afternoon or on Monday, will you put something ahead if the House gave you something? Or from what you have prepared, what are you proposing first, so that we too can assess its positive effect? This is the first, most important, of the question of questioning and I address you, for your trilogy, to this particular question. The second issue, which concerns education and you were kind enough to answer, as far as foreign languages are concerned, was not the issue of the Democrat University of Thrace, as long as I handed things over to you in January, a question of flawing the proposal. It was a matter on your part of handling the relevant presidential decree, which is required by the overall legislation on universities and TEI, so the special legislation of December, which I was responsible for, in order to operate a section. So you handled the presidential decree? Did you send it? Don't get lost this year. He goes for Democritus in the academic year 2015-2016. And I want a clarification on this, if you can today, otherwise from week to week. The third relates to the intervention of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. What you mentioned about the regulation of debt issues - you obviously mean in 2010 and 2011, in 2011 until June - are issues that have arisen, Mr President, from what Mr Romeliotis says and when he says so and in the way he says it. The truth is that at that time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u300	You're making a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u301	I'll tell you in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Petrakos, please. You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u303	It is clear, Mr President, that in the first time of the attempt to deal with the dramatic crisis, there was also the European Central Bank and the institutions of the European Union, universal reluctance - particularly from the European Central Bank - to raise these issues. The voices in our group, then, but also the former Prime Minister of the PASOK, Mr Simitis, have since 2011 started to raise this issue. Indeed, since July 2011, at the Prime Minister George Papandreou in October 2011, with the decisions of the summit of 26 October, shortly before the terrible episodes of Thessaloniki - which I say again that their dark depth will prove after some time - the issue of debt settlement was raised, through the 'cutting', as we say, of private individuals and what was called after PSI. And it took place in February 2012, where the assurances that, after the final completion of the programme, there will be debt adjustments. The completion date was December 2014, developments that you stopped. So, Mr President, we have to talk about this by looking into the periods that emerged and not retrospectively and safely. And Mr. Romeliotis, with what he says today - I say this because I have a personal witness of what he said in 2009, in 2010, in 2011 to me, not to others, because I am self-sufficient and self-sufficient - is causing impressions. That is why I suggested that the chairman of the committee of inquiry on the memorandums, Mr Vitsa, should be invited to the committee of inquiry to tell us there too, but that we should also be there to hear them. Fourthly, it is appalling, Mr President - I say this because I know your politeness and the measure you have - to watch on television the President of the Parliament attack my student and journalist, who has attacked me many times, when I was Minister of Labour, Mr Giannis Cadelis, and to tell him that he is carrying out a mission, telling him what he was saying, because he asked her a question. Politicians must listen to criticism and accept it. This is our fate to control all the people and all the media. He can't tell a worker what he told him yesterday. Its sight is appalling and explains why she, the President of the Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, like the Minister of Education, Mr Baltas, is the most unpleasant person for the Greek society, for the Greek people, when citizens are surveyed. Finally, Mr President, what is happening these days on the major issue of the country with the demonstrations and events, the one day that the protesters protest and the other day is the definition of what has been achieved since December, that is, the division. It's a dangerous phenomenon. That is why we need to get the message from those who govern it, for today's government to take it. The division, the 'two knives' of Mr. Petrakos are not right things, they are dangerous things. And as I said in my protology, in this place the extremists are many. Extremely, however, you have been, on your own counterpopulation. This cannot continue. You will be bored with the responsibility of a division that Greece and its people have paid him very much. Attention, gentlemen of the government, attention!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u304	Thank you. Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u305	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u307	About what, Mr. Petrako?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u308	On staff, because he referred to my face.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u309	Not to hurt you. I said my arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u310	Yeah, with your arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u311	Here, you have the floor on staff for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u312	You are actually trying, Mr President, to deceive the conclusions that have seen the light of publicity so far not only by the Debt Audit Committee, which has been set up - and that is why the President is disturbing and attacking you in her absence - but above all because all this has been known for years, namely, what happened in 2009, 2010 and will be captured. European officials have said so in official responses to questions from MEPs, such as the former MEP and current Minister of Government, Nikos Hountis. So don't try to deceive the results by saying about Mr. Romeliotis. They're familiar with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u314	Is it necessary, Mr. Loverdos? On staff, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u315	Yeah, it's necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Loverdos has the floor, on personal grounds, for a minute. He's the last one to talk. I would ask that we keep the time and hours in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u317	You are very kind and very democratic. I'd expect the Minister's tritology. This is where we compare our arguments. All right, that's how it's done in the House. But I asked him something very practical.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u318	We'll answer from week to week. We'll have the possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u319	How do you institutionalize, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u320	We'll communicate, in any way, we'll have a chance to talk about it. We will tell you exactly what is going to happen with these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u321	It is the issue of the Democrat and the other issue of bullying, which was the main intervention by our education sector with Mrs Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u322	As far as the immediate unit of action is concerned, we'll see. We need to work it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u323	And for the curriculum programmes you have not answered me, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Loverdo, please answer the question and take the floor again. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u325	On the issue of the Republican Court, we will contact you to see exactly what it is and after what you have said. I have some reservations on the issue of the mobile unit. Let us discuss this, however, how appropriate it is to do with the way you have said it. That's why I haven't answered now. But we will also talk about this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u326	And the curriculum programs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u328	Now, with regard to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman who raised a personal issue. I raised a political issue. I did not raise any personal questions. And his word was a politician too. So a pretext was the staff. I never hurt my fellow Members. I only speak politically. Political responses also have political retaliations. Look, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, these "tight knives cut off from both sides" are ultimately two-track knives, which turn into the neck of the Greek people. Be very careful! The days are very critical and you have a responsibility. Dragon command you don't have! And if you personally defend it, your party did not take such a mandate on 25 January. The hours, the days are critical. Take responsibility. At last!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, I request the floor. Now it's on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u330	Yeah, but this story of multiple personal placements doesn't lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u332	As far as I am concerned, Mr Petrakos has the floor for a minute on a personal basis. Here you go, Mr. Petrako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Loverdos continues to create situations and falsify my statements and position. So I invite him to withdraw and stop. What I have to say to my party bodies is what I think. The view expressed in the House was in no way the view expressed by Mr Lovers and I invite him to withdraw. Our view is clear. And I stressed: to put on the Prime Minister's challenge that solidarity and cooperation need to be found for a solution. So will they contribute to solidarity between the partners in Greece or strengthen their extortion to the Greek Government? That is the main issue, how they stand on the substance of the issue before us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u334	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u335	I would ask that another question be raised on this matter. The matter is now closed. Please, Mr. Loverdo. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u336	Under the Rules of Procedure, the Minister closes the debate, not the parliamentary representative. So I'm entitled to the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u337	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u338	I shall close the debate, so as not to cause further intervention by Mr Petrakos and finally a serious debate to be offended. It's the last hours, the last days before the end. You have been saying for five months that the negotiations are going very well and for the first time. Take over the final product of your negotiation!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u339	We'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u340	I am closing down here, Mr President, and I am not trying to contradict the honourable Member's arguments, because this story will not come to an end. Whatever I had to say, I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u341	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the No 1/26-3-2015 topical question of the PASOK Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: 'Intra-School violence - a course of action to eliminate the phenomenon' has been completed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-19-S1-commons.u342	With the consent of the House at 15.29 minutes, the sitting on Monday, June 22, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
