ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The Prime Minister, pursuant to Rules 129 and 132 of the Rules of Procedure, will answer two topical questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament welcomes the Prime Minister's return to time after a long period of substantial abolition. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, in today's prime ministerial Greek political system, which the President of the Government is the heart of executive power, it is important that the Prime Minister answers the current questions of the Heads of Political Party and Members at regular intervals. Thus, the parliamentary dialogue is culminating in the needs of our democracy and the genuine information of the people. We hope, Mr President-in-Office, that this high conquest of the parliamentary culture will continue uninterruptedly throughout this House. We are entering, ladies and gentlemen, in the development of the first under No 183/5-2015, a topical question by the President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group Mr Stavros Theodorakis, on the "Remodern draft law on education". The Prime Minister will answer Alexios Tsipras. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. You are right to point out that this is an important day. And now that I was coming, I thought I'd suggest that Mr. Tsipras should both wear a tie to honor this process, which is after three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u3	I do not have time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u4	It's not a surprise for you. It would be a surprise to us, though, that's what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, two days ago the River Parliamentary Group went to Saint Anargyroes to the west, beyond the river. No relation to college, Mr. Balta. So we saw the kids there. We saw professors, we saw the principal. We didn't interrupt the class. We waited for the breaks to talk from the bars with the kids about what the ministry wants to do in relation to the school standards. The screaming of children is very specific: 'Let us stand out'. It is the only school in western Athens, the only school in a popular area of Athens, which is a model. They were proud that they had tried to be in this school and believed they could stand out. The Ministry's decision to effectively nullify the function of the model schools has raised them a great question, if their need to separate them is currently against the logic of the state. Of course, it's not just the standard schools. They're the eternal students who have to come back, come back. We are the only country in Europe that has this institution of eternal students. We're not saying we don't have a tolerant behaviour against students who are working, against students who have social obligations. Of course we should have a tolerant attitude. But eternal students without any results? We intend to abolish the electronic vote. There are people in SYRIZA - fortunately few - who talk about technocracy. Is electronic voting technocratic today? Where are we going to return to the pigeons, where is a little more graphic? Then it's the foreign language undergraduate. This is a great opportunity for universities to open up to foreign students, undergraduate languages, and the Ministry says we should abolish them. There is a vague excuse from the Minister to the University of Thrace and to other universities that "will" and "as many" and "them" etc. Is there a clear answer? Will the foreign language departments be abolished in the undergraduate? Of course it is also the return of party resignations to universities. You're gonna tell me, were they ever gone? Oh, no. But we're giving them ground again. We have said and claim as Potami that students must have a say in the administration of universities. We'll have to find a way for students to have a reason. Not for the party parties to have a say, not tomorrow's SYRIZA party, today the New Democracy and the Potamos party. We should leave it - and they have done so successfully at all European universities - the students outside a sterile party conflict. Another is the politicization of students and others to take orders from Koumoundourou, Charilau Trikoupi, Syngrou. The kids are leaving, Prime Minister. The army is leaving. Of course they're not leaving today because it's SYRIZA. They left yesterday. They've been leaving in recent years because of the crisis. Go to foreign universities. They're trying to find solutions. And we, instead of giving them solutions, turn education a few decades back. You're abolishing the evaluation. Remove any form of evaluation. We're removing the evaluation for the managers for the educational boards. And I want in particular, Prime Minister, to ask you what to say to Mr Guria when he asks you. It's a friendly relationship from what I've figured out lately. I'm talking about the lord of the OECD. You know that the OECD is the first priority in evaluating education, and not only is it the first priority, it has set it strictly against the previous ones, in the former regime, that a European education cannot be outside evaluation frameworks. And Mr Baltas, but also Mr Kourakis, for no evaluation of any system, i.e. about the return to the old. You crashed in training? You're saved. And I'm not talking about corrections that obviously have to be made to the evaluation system. There could be some corrections. But I am talking about the abolition of the evaluation imposed by your ministers. And, of course, we're going to the very big topic of education. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u5	Don't stop the speaker, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u6	Since the Prime Minister is here, you will allow me to say that we are not treating Parliament like in our party meetings. I'm talking about previous behaviors. You should take this into account. I wanted to go to a very big deal. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You want to say something loud? Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, continue. You're welcome. Continue, Mr President, to conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u8	I say, Mr President, that whispers are not to the honour of Members. We're not whispering. If we want to say something, we can ask why. The Prime Minister is here, there is a question, we will present our views.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u9	Don't interrupt, gentlemen. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u10	I wanted to go to a very big subject called Regional Directors, you'll know. Thirteen Regional Managers were appointed by your Government, one in each region. We made a mistake, and I want to fix it, and I'll tell you what that is. We said they were eleven SYRIZA executives, an ANEL strain and another person who isn't visible to his party identity, at least on Google, because our investigation was nothing special. We pressed a name and saw that he was a candidate for parliamentarians, the other was a executive in this prefecture. It was very simple for us. One appeared from us as unbearable, neither to ANELs nor to SYRIZA. And we got a call, I don't know if it was from him or if someone pretended on the river. He called us and explained that "children I'm ANEL, I'm in the Christian Republic with the ANELs, so it's not that I'm out." Perhaps he was afraid that man would not be considered to be invincible in the second crisis. We are therefore correcting our intervention, because on paper we are saying other things. They're eleven SYRIZA strains and two ANEL strains. It's about what the previous regime did. But that's no excuse to tell us that others did the same. They gave their papers four hundred people for these positions. Four hundred people and no one was chosen worthy outside the rest of the political system? Can an independent person who has not dealt with the parties not be a regional director, one or two of the four hundred? And if any, Prime Minister, did you decide that these thirteen are the good ones, then why did you make the contest? And why don't you hand over these people's curriculum vitae who have proclaimed a place for publicity? But I think it is finally confirmed, Mr President, that the only state that has continued in Greece is the clientele. Of course, education was not paradise with the former regime. There was inequality, there were conservative ideas, there were anachronisms. But that's no excuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, year after year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u12	Would you like me to speed up, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u13	Not me, but there's a rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u14	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u15	I'll be done. So I was saying that education isn't a paradise. Not even with the previous ones was a paradise. The point is to go to some procedures that will improve the situation and that is not the case. And I'm afraid it doesn't happen deliberately, because the government doesn't talk. The Prime Minister told us at a meeting - personally - that we will discuss the issue of education, but we have not discussed it. Everything is urgent, everything is spurred, it doesn't talk. And you know - to finish, to tell you this - the country, Mr. Tsipras, needs great social alliances to deal with this crisis. There's a mountain ahead of us and you can't do it alone. A large part of society will have to be assembled. I am talking about segregation beyond Parliament, outside. And with what you do in education you isolate creative Greece and do not lead the country into a composition that will enable us to address the great problems of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to say that it is an important day to restore the right democratic function in Parliament and to restart the Prime Minister's time after more than two and a half years. Mr. Theodorakis, I have no problem over time. Just to get to grips with it, precisely because it is the first procedure, I myself, who have been using it at this time, and so I have more experience on this matter, I will tell you that the Rules stipulate that the first two minutes are to put questions before this House. I would therefore suggest that, from now on, we agree - and this applies to all Members - that the Bureau should not be in the first two minutes of tabling the question, but that it should be with regard to the Prime Minister in the analysis of the answer and, as far as the questioner is concerned, immediately thereafter, in his capacity to make his position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u18	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Theodorakis, I would like to get straight to the point of the question, and I would like to see tolerance, because there are many questions that you have raised. The government has committed itself to bringing in a new framework law on higher education to the vote, and this will be after full and thorough consultation and public dialogue. All the issues, but in particular those that are more sensitive - I consider the issues of education to be extremely sensitive - require thorough consultation and public dialogue and I agree with you that they also require consent. It will be possible for all concerned to take part in this dialogue and I must make it clear that when our own government speaks of public debate, it means so. I would point out this because the previous law, Mr von Wogau. 4009 voted in 2011, whose implementation you are defending with this question, was passed August, in just one week and without any substantial involvement by the stakeholders. Of course, I will remind you that this law and its vote were the crack test for the creation of the then universal government. It was the first law passed by the three parties at the time that later formed the government, the PASOK, the New Democracy and the LAOS of Mr Karatzafiris. There was no substantial involvement by the stakeholders in the debate at the time, which was not even a dialogue, and this is of course no accident, because it is directly related to the debate we are going to be having here. Until this process is completed in the most appropriate way, the process of dialogue on the future of education in our country, the Ministry of Education proceeds to discuss and vote on a multi-project that regulates urgent issues. One of the things that we referred to in the programme statements, and I and the Minister Baltas, is the abolition of the institution councils, which the law provided for. What makes, in our view, the abolition of institution councils urgent? It is the explosive situation that has been created in universities because of the law's ability to involve them openly in academic as well as in administrative work. Since the adoption of the law to date, there have been too many cases of this kind of involvement, which relate to the curriculum, the administration of the institutions' budget, the management of the specific accounts of research books, the internal regulations, and the constant frictions that make it impossible for the university to operate. I do not want to zero, nor do I want to see any personalities who have come in good faith and have a good will to offer work and participate in these councils, but most of all, in the account of the action and operation of these councils, the balance sheet is very much inconvenient and I would say that it is negative. Neither strategic planning nor the development of institutions nor any of the things heavier than the previous law promised. The role played by Mr von Wogau. 4009 in the institution councils - and I repeat that without questioning anyone's good intentions - it is a dissolutionary role. And this is not an accident, this has been done with absolute knowledge and consciousness of the legislator. The Foundation councils were the vehicle to charge the university tuition fees in order to impose indirect management of universities by private individuals in order to proceed with the gradual withdrawal of the public from the support for higher education. The next time we have elections to at least five republican authorities. I can inform you that the vast majority of the academic community does not want these elections to be held under the guardianship of the boards, as happened in the previous two years, which are councils - and this is unprecedented in the world - on the basis of the law they are able to rule out nominations, to exclude a member of the board from running nomination, as was many times ago, and not on academic criteria, Mr Theodorakis. In essence, they pass on the candidates from an interview, which is not always their academic completeness. There are many complaints - I could also list them - from people who do not have anything to do with SYRIZA, but people who had a different view of the law, with a wealth of academic work, who were rejected by the councils and did not run, because their beliefs and opinion on the university were not matched by the spirit of n. 4009 and so, without any other excuse, they were banned from running. Is that our vision and your vision of democracy at universities? Is that what you're coming to defend? That is not even the case in North Korea, just because it has opposing views. I don't think it's your vision and I want your opinion on it. These are the reasons why we are forced to legislate directly on the abolition of the boards, because as long as they remain, despite the forthcoming change in the institutional framework and at the same time when we are going to have good faith in creating a legal framework that responds to the dysfunctions, these councils will continue to implement a policy, which, in our view, is a policy for the degradation of the public university. They make their own rules of procedure without asking anyone, they rush to establish legal persons under private law to manage everything they can get from resources, property and special accounts. I come to the subject of the electronic vote. You spoke about the electronic vote and said that it ensures mass participation. I am in favour of the view that the use of technology must be made compatible with our everyday lives. If, however, we are aware that electronic voting ensures participation, why do we not propose it? To replace the elections, not to tire of people going to the barracks to vote, to abolish the living process in Parliament and to vote from our laptop, from our offices. Here, then, we need to put some dividing lines. So long the vote in universities took place in the traditional way. Massity, not with regard to students, but with regard to LPIS members, was guaranteed. It was guaranteed the masses. There was no question of massage. What has changed with the electronic vote and the reason why we reject it is that by electronic vote the actual committee of inquiry is not the ones that collect e-mails and sum up votes, it is a server, which no one can control. Therefore, the impreciseness is not guaranteed. But even worse, more critical and more substantial is that secrecy is not guaranteed. The electronic tracks and personal choice of each individual are there, at the disposal of each interested party. I come to the question of student participation. I think the Ministry's position is clear on the subject of student participation. For the first time, student representation depends on their share of universal suffrage. The previous law ruled out students. We do not consider him democratic and correct. We are trying to bring their participation, in the light of their presence in the vote. And that, believe me, is the most important thing to do, in order to get away from the patronage of student classes and students, as you say, the participation of each student. Deletes. The eternal theme of eternal students, in our view, is an eternal communication issue, but eternally nonexistent, and I will explain why. Although the previous law, i.e. the deletion of so-called ‘seasonal students’, has been in force since 2011, few institutions have been technically able to proceed with deletion. Furthermore, in our view, it is also an unnecessary demonstration of authoritarianism. These students don't have the slightest cost for the university. After two years from the normal course of their studies, they do not have the right to books, they do not have the right to subsistence or housing, they do not even have the right to participate in election, contrary to what your question claims. Most of them have already left the university. We are more than theoretical, I say, because you often say that you come from a people's neighborhood, you know that many people, many children are deprived of the financial capacity to study, and that is why many times they are forced to stop their studies in order to ensure that they are able to live, but the desire of these people at some point is to return, because for us knowledge is self-worth, and to have access to knowledge and to academic process - which is something sacred and we do not think that for a bureaucratic process we should deprive it. As far as secondary education is concerned, I have been following a strong protest from you all this time - but let me say without content - for the alleged abolition of school standards or the demolition of experiments. I would like to assure you that none of the two applies. What the government does is separate the standards from experimental, as was the case for decades in our country before the previous law came into effect. In experimental schools, Mr. Theodorakis, it is unscientific and does not happen anywhere in the world to choose by draw, because in experimental schools you must have all the learning range. The role of experimental experts, after all, is precisely that. Experimenting by exploiting the learners’ average level of learning in order to promote best and best practice learning programs in all other schools, otherwise it makes no sense to say that they are experimental. Experimental is just because they experiment and cannot experiment in the best students. With examinations they will continue to have students, not experimental, but model schools, at least those who want to do so. Because there are also school models that they did not want to take with tests, and they also took them with draw. But let us see what exactly you are defending from the previous law, exactly what has happened and what has not been done with this coexistence of experimental and model schools. What was done with the coexistence of standards and experimental methods was the creation of an educational system within the educational system. Sixty schools were extracted from the trunk of secondary education and formed on an autonomous island independent even from the structures of the Ministry. And the aim of this action was to give the previous governments the opportunity to slowly abandon the rest of the system, i.e. the weakest and largest part of the educational system, in its fate. What was happening in practice was: First, a new system of misconduct was created, alongside existing systems of misconduct and second, especially in small areas, there was a substantial separation between pupils and schools. Imagine a small provincial town where if you take all the good students and take them together to a separate school, then all the other schools are downgraded. In all, the level of the education process is downgraded. Our commitment and commitment is to ensure the qualitative upgrading of education as a whole and at all levels. We will be dealing with this problem and we will be judged on it. I saw you visited a people's neighborhood. Let me tell you that of course there must be experimental schools in all the people's and remote neighborhoods. And the experimental school was one of the most important innovations of the originals, the first PASOK governments, I remind you. I personally became an experimental school and multi-class school, and I know that it was very important high-level schools, although in draw students were there for all the previous years. We therefore have no intention of transferring certain visions to education, in my view, appallingly - I am not referring to you - some of the extremes of the neoliberal school for a 2/3 and 1/3 society. Based on this logic, we reinstate the draw in experimental and let the standards choose whether or not they want tests. As regards the selection of directors, you should inform the system in force to date. And I think that's a value for us all to know. Two-thirds of the molecules were related to qualifications. 1/3, however, was an interview, with no specifications, with no commitment to what they will ask, without transparency, without any control. Just and clearly it was an average state to choose the ones he wants, without giving an account to anyone. We abolish the interview and transfer this one-third, in addition to the mobilisation of the interview, to the opinion of the teachers. Is it not more democratic, in other words, to burden, more the opinion of the Association of Teachers in selecting managers from the opinion of some of the Ministry's executives who do not even know who they are looking at, and what exactly should they ask him? We think it's more democratic. And I don't see any scary danger in it. If I am not mistaken, you have also referred to the issue of foreign languages. They are not abolished. That's never been realised. They don't exist right now. They are not abolished. The question is to implement the foreign-language departments at universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u20	For the service directors...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u21	You're opening a subject, Mr. Theodorakis, for the service directors. I would like to ask you very sincerely, because I see that you have just consulted your Member, Mr Theocharis, who, as Secretary-General of the Public Income, took the e-mails of the party members of the previous government to appoint a tax office! And it's up to you! And that has not been answered! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And are you talking to this government about party rule, which is in power for three months, and has it not managed, because of the negotiation that eats us 70% of the year, to change substantial structures and bad texts? No, Mr. Theodorakis, you're wrong. Of course, and there is no Opengov.gr procedure as defined by Mr Papandreou. And there is no reason why, in our view, this experiment failed with regard to the political positions of the General Secretariat of the Ministries. The Secretary-General of the Ministries is a political responsibility. That is where the Minister and the Prime Minister are responsible. But our vision is not public administration to be designated by the party state. And here we shall be judged. But let us be judged. Not even a hospital manager has changed for three months here. Not even a service manager has changed! [[Applause]] All those who were General Secretariat of Public Revenue, ELSTAT, Financial Stability Fund, remain still. No one has changed, even those who are in charge and involved in court cases. Only then do we ask them to resign. You can't tell us about a party state! I accept the criticism and accept it. The criticism is the quintousity of democracy. We'll be judged, but you can't talk to us about a party state. Finally, let me make a few comments. Do not use the argument for the two thousand children who left the country because the law that was passed on to education by the parties in the memorandum is not implemented. Don't use this! Because if you use it, it means that you are not responsible for the crisis that is going through this way. Because it is a structural crisis with beastly unemployment causing despair to young people and leaving them without a dream, without vision, without hope. And I think that that cannot be said to be the case, because the law that Mrs Diamantopoulou brought to Parliament was not implemented and was passed in August 2011 by two hundred and fifty Members indeed. However, I repeat that this law was nothing more than a test at the time of the new alliance that was inhabited to implement the Memorandums. It was the crack test of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the People's Orthodox Alert just before they created the Papademos government to support the Memorandums. So this number of two hundred and fifty-five in the House did not reflect a similar social relationship, much more than consultation. The same majority of Mr Papademos saw her collapse as a paper tower a few months later. So let us not use this argument. I would like to close by reminding you of something that I believe is more important than this vote then, in August 2011 in this Chamber. The then Deputy of the New Democracy and current President of the Republic, Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulos, despite the appalling majority of the two hundred and fifty-five MPs, refused the party line. He refused to vote on this bill. In fact, he has tabled an absolutely substantiated view of his refusal. I therefore think that this would be worth remembering more and recovering more from your journalistic record than that vote - a precedent for the first change of government and Prime Minister following the re-civilisation in the sense of the will of the people. This is worth remembering more, Mr Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Alexis Tripras. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor for the President of the River Parliamentary Group to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u23	However, we, Mr Tsipras, because we believe that this procedure is essential, we have come to an agreement and not to applaud, but also to try to respond to what is actually said. And I'm explaining what I mean. You had been prepared by a speech, which lasted twenty - two minutes. In fact, I don't understand why you're commenting on time, after you've made three times the time allowed and you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u24	I've explained to you, Mr. Theodorakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u25	I accept...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u26	I did not comment on the time. I have explained to you that we are tolerating the substance of the answers and not putting the question down. There is a rule that provides for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u28	And I promise to be precise in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u29	We, Mr Theodorakis, will be endlessly tolerant today and to the Members who will follow next. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u30	You, Mr President, have misled me because we have asked and told me that you have time to have this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u31	I must confess, Mr President. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u32	But let's go to what the Prime Minister said. It would be a good thing if you could reply, Mr President-in-Office, to what I say and not to what your advisers think I am going to say. I mean, you talked about the boards six minutes in response to something I haven't put up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u33	There is a written question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u34	No, let me. You can see the written question and what our references to councils are. You spoke six minutes about the boards on something that I didn't even mention. You said about the eternity working. I told you in my place that, of course, the eternal people who work are a separate story and there are ways of seeing the educational system who can't really be at their university so that they don't have the same attitude toward all those who don't just go to the universities. Of course, for the two thousand children who left, we told you that you weren't responsible and it's not a law that's changing. The responsible is the suffocating framework that we have created in this country, namely that there is a conservative ideological rule by 2015 and suddenly it comes, let me, a left - it wants to be called - ideological governance, which creates a suffocating framework for creative people. The students aren't leaving because you came. The students have gone, but they continue to leave and will continue to leave while you go on an ideological course and on a course of a party state. Our great disagreement is this and I will tell you that nobody has said that the Secretary-General cannot be SYRIZA officials. And of course it can be, as can regional directors be SYRIZA executives and school managers can be SYRIZA executives. Woe if we say that SYRIZA executives do not have the ability to take such important positions. But when thirteen seats are being proclaimed - give me a reasonable explanation, as a reasonable man you are, four hundred applications we had for thirteen positions - and oh, of the miracle, the eleven are SYRIZA executives, and the two of the ANELs, is there no one else in any other field to take this position of regional directors? Can I tell you something, from the lion's nail? The details will judge the course. You have no specific answer. They're trying to answer because it's not ours, they keep putting it, Prime Minister, newspapers, students and students keep putting it on the Internet, on Facebook, on social networks. And do you know what your ministry's answer is? That it is personal data which are the four hundred who asked for the seats and it is personal data who the thirteen are. It's not personal data when the thirteen, I'm telling you, they're all executives of your government mechanism. You told me, Prime Minister, that there would be a dialogue. When will there be a dialogue? In what process? This bill, Mr. Kourakis' corrigendum that corrects, is supposed, for you, some things in education, came as an amendment to the Sports Bill, which was an insult to the process. He retired and came as an emergency after a process today. There has been no dialogue with any institutions. It has not, in other words, been discussed by society about this law. And let me tell you something. I will not defend all the points of the previous law you mentioned, the law that the House voted with two hundred and fifty-five votes, but it is well known that there was a dialogue for that law with strong, disagreements, about a year and a half. It's not a secret. One and a half years there was this consultation at universities. Of course, it came to a conclusion that some might not like, but not that there was no dialogue. In other words, the debate on the bill, which is now being discussed in Parliament in three days' time, is now being deleted and we consider dialogue, Prime Minister. When did this dialogue take place? You made a personal reference to Mr. Theocharis, and we really would like now that you have the data, you have the files of the ILO, you have the files of recruitment, you have to say in particular what cases Mr. Theocharis has intervened. Who appointed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u35	I'll tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u36	Of course, you're the ones who say it. But you're saying he made a personal policy with some e-mails. So because it is well known that Mr Theocharis was an unscrupulous head and did not listen - and that is why he was removed from the previous ones - we are telling you that we would like publicity and we do not want whispers for these things. If you really have evidence that any Member from the River has, in any situation, served in the past, some people in some illegal ways, outside the political authorities defending the River, we really would like you to tell us. You should be very concerned about the disapproval of your policy on education. I don't know if you saw the polls. 70% on one, 80% on the other, say it's wrong what your ministers do in education. I mean, it's not a tornado, Mr. Tsipras. It's the wrong sails, it's the turn of the way your ministers are milking. Of course, to be honest, it is not just in education, and that may acquit them a little. It is about refugees and immigrants, it is about public administration. And we voted for the cleaners, as you know, that we saw you greeted them. And we saw them without a drum impact. And we talked, because we have friends between them. But you are defending the rest of Mr. Katrugalo's articles. So it's not just the question of education. It's about justice, it's about prisons. It is a lot of issues that society is facing you. Let me tell you something that the new Minister for the Negotiation has said and is right. It's hard to make a negotiation. We went to uncharted waters. And we recognize it. He's right that it was unpainted. He's right that there could be some delays and he's right that some things would get wrong and you'd fix them along the way. But is there an alibi for what is going on in internal policy, for what society has been discussing for so long? Is there an alibi for what you do in education? This is not unpapered waters. It's clear. Either you go to a European, modern education system, or you go to a North Korean system. Mr. Tsipras, look at it, discuss it, talk to the OECD. You know Mr. Guria. He'll tell you you're going back. Evaluating procedures create a negative environment. He'll tell you officially. If you don't believe me, he will tell you in his own language that he is, perhaps, more convincing. So that's all we need to talk about, Mr. Tsipras. We need to speak here in the House, we need to talk to the committees. And you have to leave the logic that we are legislating under urgent procedure. Teachers, teachers, students must be heard. You need to find a way to communicate with the many rather than to communicate only with the small parts of your party. Let me tell you, generally speaking a little: the election period is over. We're in command. You have the responsibility of the country in your hands. So your responsibility is to talk to the many, to put aside the interests, to put aside the guilds, to put aside the closed components of your party and to talk to society. That's what we invite you to do. Of course, there is also the great question of negotiating that we are waiting for your responses in the next period. It's not just Mr. Venizelos who's asking. And I'm going to have to tell you something confidential, because you may not have time to go around the halls of this House. Of course, you do not have the time, because you are in a tough negotiation, in which, as I have told you personally, we support you, because we do not want to move on to the old path of austerity, but we want to move on to the new path of development. But so far you have only given us one suffocation. So I was saying that Mr. Venizelos is not the only one asking you. You are also asking your Members here in the mountains, but other Members and other Members of Parliament are asking what is going on with Europe. Perhaps it is not possible to speak in Parliament. I respect that. I repeat my proposal for a debate at Heads of State or Government level, together with the President of the Republic, to be informed of what is being done in Europe, about what you are deciding. It will take a great alliance for the country to move forward - I told you again - an alliance of creative, progressive Greece, not a government alliance. We've made that clear, despite what some people are trying to say. We're not claiming a position on the government. The government is your decision. Handle the matter as you wish. But we have a role to play in building the great social alliance that will change the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, before I give you the floor, I will announce the high attractions of primary school pupils from Preveza and Voula. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and four teachers from the 6th Priveza Municipal School. The House welcomes them. Health and progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] [[Applause from all sides]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and two teachers from the 3rd Municipal School of Voulas. The House welcomes them. Health and progress. Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Theodorakis, I will try to refer to the points you have raised and only to them. Look, dialogue on education in particular is a value for the Left, for the Government and for those who are part of it. We are in favour of dialogue and of the perception that the broadest possible consensus on issues such as education must be created, but this does not mean that these issues are neutral. There is a clear ideological mark in the conflicts that are taking place, particularly in the field of education. In this sense, we do not come here tabula rasa, without proposals. There is a past of struggles, claims, conquests and an attempt to counter-reform that has been made in recent years, which I feel has been solely aimed at defaming the public university in a re-revolutionary way against something left standing in this country. The public university, despite its problems, is an area that produces both values and knowledge and research at a high level. Proof of what I'm saying is that young scientists undergraduate from the Greek public universities go abroad, have a bright future and a bright career. He disgraced the Greek university as much as anything else in this place. Did the Greek university have any malfunctions and problems? Sure, he did. I would therefore like to tell you that we do not come without our'luggage' from our struggles, our claims. And you and I are doing this. The major changes, however, to the university of the future, the major changes to higher education will come with a framework law. This law will come to the House through an exhaustive dialogue, mainly with the academic community: academics, students, society. Then he'll come to the House. Why do we, as you say, bring in a legislative process for urgent changes? Because these urgent changes do not concern the university of our visions, nor the school of our visions. They want to solve immediate and urgent operational needs now. We took the lead in the middle of the school year and the academic period. So, before this academic and school period expires, we must have had time to make some fundamental changes that will allow schools and universities to work harmoniously next year. The students must know how they will be introduced next year into higher education. We can't leave that on the bells. Of course - I repeat - this is not about the debate that will take place, even on the major subject of introduction to higher education. We want to make an improvement, which is about the immediate period. We, as you know - and I do not hide that - have a different perception of the introduction of higher education, which we will have a wide-ranging dialogue with all parties and with all the institutions, to see if the universities can withstand and whether the academic community can support an idea of the prospect of free access to higher education. But that is not what this is at present. On the subject you raised for the regional directors: Look, I sincerely want to talk about the possibility of changing the current framework. Let's change it. Today, however, regional directors are actually thirteen small Ministers for Education in their regions. So when this framework is in place and all the governments to date were concerned that these people should be able to reach an agreement with the Ministry's political leadership, we also followed that framework. If we have to change it, we have to change it. To open the dialogue, to make a legislative process change it. However, I would like to tell you that the procedure was carried out under the law, neither were there any crisis council nor a competition, merely a CV and the choice was in the absolute minister's judgement. And when the choice is in the absolute Minister's crisis, it is perfectly understandable that the Minister will choose what he considers capable and able to communicate with them. If you raise the question of going to a change in it, go to a change in it. There is another council that controls, judges and presides regional directors based on their academic completeness. This, however, requires a substantial dialogue on major and radical sectors in public administration, this is not only a question of education, Mr Theodorakis. We are open, but these changes - I repeat - want time and political will. We have the political will. Give us the time to move forward with consensus on major changes, so as to "break" the way from post-Culture. You referred to the OECD programmes: an OECD programme is ongoing and we will complete it. As you know, I, and in Athens, welcomed Mr Gurias, also went to the OECD headquarters in Paris. We have made a substantial consultation on an overall programme, which has nothing to do with the old toolbox brought by Mr Hatzidakis, I would like to say to you. It is a programme that promotes justice, equality, a programme aimed at equal opportunities and the elimination of social injustice and restrictions and barriers. And as far as education is concerned, we are in open consultation with the OECD and with the political parties, the political forces, bringing these into dialogue and implementing them. You referred to the end and the polling rate. Look, we don't policy on the basis of polls. But if we had made a policy based on polls, I should have told you, Mr. Theodorakis, that it has never been in the post-population government that has so much acceptance from Greek society and so much opposition from a hard core of yesterday, from which I invite you to cut off. You have nothing to do with this nucleus of yesterday that threw Greece on the rocks. [[Applause]] Cut off as long as it's time, because it'll take you together. He'll take you to the bottom of this hard core of yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u39	I didn't hear you because of the applause.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u40	It's all right, Mr. Theodorakis. I think you understood what I told you. I would also like to say to you that, despite the fact that we are conducting a tough and critical negotiation, we have not been afraid of dialogue, we have not been afraid with open papers to place us in Parliament and to the Greek people. And there was no other government that did that. Within three months I have come to the House more than Mr Samaras had been here two and a half years already. I provoked a debate on the basis of the Rules of Procedure to inform, with the ongoing negotiation, and the criticism I received from the Chief of Anti-Population is: “Why are you doing this? He is not responsible, when he is in the process of negotiating to provoke a debate to keep you up to date." And at the same time, I had nothing to fear against, publicly, openly, the Greek people in a three-hour TV interview. So don't give up on us. Whenever you want to - I have already informed you twice - I am at your disposal. But if you want to be able to identify with the other two, the memorandumaries, Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos, at a meeting of the political leaders under the President of the Republic, there are more appropriate ways to do so. We do not have to trouble the President of the Republic by such a procedure. I hope you won't. We are open to dialogue, we are open to information. We are giving a battle that has no party or extravagant mark, and that is why I once again call on you, like all the Members, on the red lines that we are building, on the red lines of the defence of society and our people, not on the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, as well as on the insurance, which has been broken up, because there has been a haircut of the insurance funds that has been charged to our funds with EUR 25 billion, red lines against the right of workers to fight and negotiate collective agreements. On these red lines, we invite you to identify yourself with the national effort that the government is making at this crucial time in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u42	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u43	It's not a matter. We'll keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u44	There's...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u45	The Rules of Procedure do not provide, Mr Theochra. We enter the second under number 169/8/28-4-2014 a topical question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Prime Minister, about the "underground routes of oligarchs to the channels of TV stations' interlocutory. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The Prime Minister will answer Alexios Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet! Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, despite the fact that Potami has left, I feel the need and the obligation towards colleagues who are here to expressly disobey what we have heard just now from the President of Potami, that one of the two who were placed as regional directors - Mr Theodorakis - belongs to my party, the Christian Democratic Party. Of course, he said to the Christian Republic. I imagine he doesn't mean Nikos Psarodakis, because that was the once, unless Mr. Theodorakis actually lives in another era and in another world. Prime Minister, the presence here of the MPs really shows how much this House wanted, how much it appreciates that after a long time you have come to reopen an institution that Constantine Mitsotakis opened. On the right, then, Prime Minister! That's what they say down to my area when they wish a good start with the Left Government. We welcome, Prime Minister, your decision to reintroduce the Memorandum banned by both the co-chairmen, by the co-chairmen. Samara and Venizelos, at this time of the Prime Minister. Finally, after a long time, for the first time we see the Greek Prime Minister again present here before us in the temple of democracy, in order to answer the timely questions of the Greek representatives elected. I am pleased not because you have come here, Prime Minister, today to answer my topical question, but because you have chosen to launch the Prime Minister's time with one of the most flaming issues relating to the operation of democracy and institutions in our country, a matter that none of your predecessors dared or dared, as Costas Karamanlis did, to deal with and solve, that is, the issue of lending the bankrupt and interconnected system of mass media and economic and political life that Konstantinos Mitsotakis said led to the fall of his government with Antonis Samaras. Here, then, we are to hear, Prime Minister, what you will do with all these bearers of the memorial who have done gold jobs during the time of the troika, taking gold contracts of lenders to inspire the doctrine of shock to the Greek people, through televisions, newspapers, radios, websites and blogs they possess and possess. The people hope that the central government will achieve this by Alexis Tsipras. And the question is: Why is your government delayed and not redeeming this pimp regime, this regime that Costas Karamanlis, and today's President of the Republic, Prokopis Pavlopoulou, through the main shareholder, fought to overthrow it, but which, unfortunately, did not all win it together? So you, with the same stated political will and - we believe - without commitments, as you have said many times, are asking: How so far do you tolerate the same mechanisms of interacting between the economic, banking and medium-term interaction with their elite strong, immobile and continue its spectacular work? How did Mrs Sakellariou, who approved the four systemic banks, but mainly the Post Office, even though she was referred back to another forty known names of good society - says - including the Canalarch, Mr. Kontominas, how was she still in charge of the HFS? Why do you not ask, Mr Tsipras, today for the resignation of Mr Stournara, as you did with Mrs Sakellariou? Who reminded you - on the day of the discovery of the TT scandal came out of the Maximos Mansion, after having consulted with Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos and intervened in the work of justice, said 'we support Mrs Sakellariou'? Really, Prime Minister, why don't you tell Mr. Draghi of the European Central Bank that he is under control by Mr. Stournaras, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, in the sea loans of the indebted media, just as he did with the last one, the one in the daily publications, the loan of 36 million of the Alfouzouzou Group? I'll testify for the Practicals some of the things he should've seen, and he didn't see the central banker, who helved in his hands. Prime Minister, we give so much weight, because corruption is evolving into a force that is in danger of destroying any effort to restore the country. The problem is that we exorcise it, but I fear that if anti-corruption policies do not specialise, then we will be repeated. Prime Minister, three members of the Bobola family are on the Lagard list. A few days ago, he raised a serious issue with Mr Bobola's "substantiated" about the 1.8 million he testified, not because he went alone, as you allowed him to say to the Greek people, but because the institutions of the state led him there. Does it really turn out that he owned this amount lawfully or does the state accept to borrow undeclared money, not to say black money? On the other hand, you know the incriminating evidence of any contract in which their technical company was involved. I wonder what other evidence your government wants in order for the authorities to move forward and for justice to be attributed. Prime Minister, the case of the loan of "Kathemerini" is a story of the splitting up of public money and, indeed, of bank money, which the Greek people gave from their misery. Ten days now and the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras, has not been accepted to give an excuse here to the House for supervising the banking system. In fact, Mr Varoufakis answered me here in the House that Mr Stournaras does not give the loan contracts so that they can come to the House. Do you know why he doesn't give them? Because if he gives them, he knows very well that he might be in danger of fraud at the expense of the public. Prime Minister, how do you allow appointed members of your Government to allow systemic banks to finance companies with unfavourable financial data and indeed a few days' time - you hear that, Prime Minister - before the report of the sworn accountants comes out? Can you hear me, ladies and gentlemen? On March 26, two days later, the report of the sworn accountants was released yesterday. I shall conclude, Prime Minister, and I shall say it in my second language. It's a lot of questions. Two days later, Prime Minister! Lucky? Prime Minister, because we consider that we must all realise that even a temporary alliance with the few-government and their involvement is an agreement with the devil, you ask: Do you intend to do the folding interests of media oligarchs by directly establishing a clear legal framework for the exploitation of television frequencies and the operation of television stations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Prime Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like to make another announcement, because, if it is not a symptom, it seems that you have also created power in foreign attractions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nineteen American scholars of the Fulbright Foundation. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides]] Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. You are giving me the opportunity today to address a major issue, which is a priority of the government. Let me begin with the current situation in the media sector in our country and which needs to be explained clearly to the Greek people. We do not come to deal with this in terms of politicians, what each channel is, what interests it serves, what political attitude it holds. That's not what I'm worried about. You know that. If I were involved in it, we would have a different attitude and an election and a post-election attitude. Freedom of speech is our basic principle and hard criticism of the government is an element of democracy. Besides, in this life and in this world everyone is judged. In the end, the judges are judged. So I will not speak in political terms. I'll answer you in terms of public interest. It is incomprehensible for a government, in my view, to link the regulation of the broadcasting landscape to the control of the content of the channels. This must not happen, it can't happen and it won't happen. From the spasms of Greek democracy there were newspapers that freely criticised, even warfare, the governments. Controlling the media government and opposing it is an important thing. But I shall speak to you, I repeat, in terms of public interest. If the framework for the functioning of the media is not transparent and clear, if it is regulated every time in agreements under the table, then that is where a daily can be created. It is where the hardest relationship is produced and reproduced. That's the definition of interlocutory. This is a behind-the-spot transaction in order to ensure communication support for one government, in exchange for financial facilities in the relevant decisions concerning the media control entrepreneurs. I had made special mention of the so-called 'three of sin' in this place. The "three corner of sin" had as one top a political decayed system, on the other it had the media and on the third peak the banks. The banks, at a time when they stopped lending ordinary entrepreneurs, healthy entrepreneurs, continued to lend businesses to the media that did not meet the loan criteria. The media supported governments and governments in turn enabling the banks to exercise this poor control over the loans of broadcasting companies. And that's how the circle closes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have decided this cycle of interacting and the transaction to close it. We have decided to cut off this red thread that connects a political system - banks - the media, in fact, repeating that this has nothing to do with what is being proclaimed and who is supporting each other. You know, if you are legally entitled to broadcast, if you have earned the frequency it holds under the rules of free competition, if you have paid what you owe the public, if it is, that is, a healthy business, if you have no open accounts and no loose ends with the state and with the banks that supports - blood the state with debts, which are charged to the Greek people - then there is no reason to justify it. But let us see what the real situation in the broadcasting landscape is: The deregulation of the broadcasting landscape has started since 1989, but in a way that was incomprehensible for a developed western European state. The way some have acquired the right to have national frequencies vis-à-vis others, who obviously would, but have not been able to obtain this right, strongly reminds of the way in which in the eastern states public assets have been handed over to fewer people, without much consultation, without meticulousness and, above all, without procedures that would safeguard free competition, transparency and the public interest. I want to remind you that since then we have changed eight governments. All of them had in their first five programming aims to regulate the broadcasting landscape, which should be launched from the standpoint of self-evidentness, since the call for competition for the use of frequencies. The ordinary citizen in this place had heard political commitments to regulate the broadcasting landscape by at least five or six Prime Ministers. In the end, however, nothing happened. And I would like to make it clear why nothing has been done at all. Because those who have acquired the right to use public broadcasting already had enough power to impose on the governments concerned not to do anything at all. I'll remind you of the notorious law for the main shareholder. He was supposed to try to exclude from the ownership of the channels people or companies that had a transaction with the State. It was finally proved that these people and these companies had much more power than the governments themselves or - to say it better - that the governments might have had the intention, but eventually they did not have the strength to reach the end of the road. And you know, it's better when you open up a fight to be determined to reach the end. If you're not determined to reach the end, you'd better not open it at all. So in the case of the main shareholder. Later, despite the decisive declarations and successive amendments, the legislation became even more flexible than it was before, so that those who have channels can get even more public works, even more public procurement, exactly what this law supposedly wanted to exclude. And they, of course, who take these public works and supplies can even more control the channels. With these and Greece today, our country is the most lagging country in the legislation regulating the broadcasting landscape throughout Europe. So I want to say things with their name. The question of the regulation of the broadcasting landscape is our obligation to respect legality. And I want to tell you that - you know - the lenders themselves put it in 2010, saying it very simple: 'You are trying to create surpluses. You're looking for money. A public asset, such as the radio frequencies, gives it for free. So do something about it." Since 2010! But that was the original position of lenders. We must recognise that in this matter - contrary to their firm attitude to wage and pension cuts and the pillaging of the social state - they were extremely flexible! The governments of the memorandums - you know - have always had equivalent measures to propose at a social cost, at a socially dissolution, in order not to disturb this system of interlocutory. And you all understand why. Because it is better to cut pensions, but have media to support that this is being done to save the country and the country, rather than to put it with those who support you. So this is the difference of understanding that we have. We believe that those who support us and are here, and we will be for as long as they support us, are not the ones who control the media, but they are the Greek people, they are the ones who have been cut off by pensions, their wages have been cut off, their dreams have been cut off, their breath of life, all these years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The worst is, however, the transition from the analogue to the digital landscape, a transition that most Greeks and Greek women have informed her from a cute commercial cartoon, which informed them that they will have to get a decoder to watch TV and reset all the channels caught by the television receiver. Few people could understand that what was happening was something more serious. It was a business at the expense of the public interest. Because that's it! What happened was that the previous government, for reasons of feasibility - and we say it clearly and clearly! - gave those who had made public frequencies, without a permanent tender, the opportunity to pass without cost to the digital signal, in fact by creating themselves a provider company to serve them. In order to proceed with this project, ERT was suddenly closed, which could set up a second digital platform, as is imposed by the rules of free competition. Here we are, then, clear: The reason why the broadcasting landscape remains unregulated and is looted by strong economic factors is specific: it is the relationship of interrelated and overlapping between the governments and all kinds of contractors, a relationship of decay, a relationship that is absolutely harmful to the public interest. Let us not expand on this, because the question of SMEs is a matter for which society should go for more than thirty years and the governments of so-called modernisation, which would modernise the country, have done nothing about it. I'll just say that for us this is a huge bet. The real guarantee of public interest in the place is a huge bet. And from the bet that will be judged. That is why the present Government is no more than a priority for which so many other governments have committed themselves in their programming statements, namely the regulation of the broadcasting landscape. The first step in this arrangement is the conduct of a transparent and unequivocal tender that will grant licences for the use of radio frequencies, so that the granting of a public good to pay the revenue, which is extremely necessary at this stage. At the same time, those who have made use of frequencies to date should give an account of whether they respect their tax obligations towards the law, such as any other citizen and any other undertaking must comply with these obligations towards the law. There are no two-speed civilians! Finally, I would also like to say that these obligations to the law, with regard to taxes, which have never been collected, controlled and paid. That's our intention. The fee they are obliged to pay, which they have not paid, must be paid under the laws. Be sure that technically, accounting tricks, which show the balance of debts and claims, will not be recognised, as will any legality. There are laws in Greece and we are determined to implement these laws. If anyone exploits a public beach, puts sunbeds and umbrellas and has not paid this public beach to the municipality for thirty years, doesn't it cause us indignation? It would be a huge theme in the 20:00 news reports. There has never been a huge issue in the news releases of 20 a.m. that the corresponding occupation of public frequencies since 1989 has not yielded the law due to the Treasury. I would like to make it clear once again that we do not care whether the ones we call on the law to be implemented will be friendly or hostile to us. It is a good thing that criticism, well-meaning and attack are well-meaning. Our merchandise is the attacks by those who don't keep the law in this country. And these merchandises for us are trustworthy medals. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] Finally, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that with regard to the issues which you have raised and which have to do not only with the competitive process, which is open and inconsistent, but also with the application of the law in a number of cases, possibly relating to media owners, the government is not in a re-emphatic mood, it does not look at who it is when it seeks justice to apply the law. I can assure you, Mr Nicolopoulos, that I was neither informed nor aware of any person who would be invited to sit on the justice bench. I just asked public - and I repeat - all those who have not been called upon to pay for tax evasion cases, such as the very spectacular case of the Lagard list, to be called upon to pay as every citizen in this place. Every rascal on his bench, no matter what it's called! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You also referred to the issue of the Governor of the Bank of Greece. Look, Mr Nicolopoulos, we in relation to people who exercise responsibility at these critical times a very important project, do not come in the mood to judge their work on the basis of whether we have the same views or not, whether we have conflicted with the past or not. We have no mood of reunification or retaliation. We demand, however, that all of them be consistent with the work they have undertaken and that they stick to the national line. The Governor of the Bank of Greece will be judged by his ability to manage and complete the proper and secure functioning of the banking system. It has a great responsibility and it will be judged. For all the rest, I want to repeat that we won't hide anything. The Committee of Inquiry on the Memorandum will open up all aspects. However, this committee of inquiry is not doing so in order to target people, but in order to highlight all the dark points. I can assure you that where there is evidence of responsibilities - not just policies - this committee will not hesitate to bring the matter to Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, as the Prime Minister spoke about the falsifications, I would like to state the extrajudicial I have received from Mr Alfouzo, because I have dared to bring to Parliament the parliamentary control, what I said a moment ago, and what I said, and Mr Melissanidis's appeal, because I have also been able to carry out parliamentary scrutiny. I will then table them for the Minutes, along with the number of questions not only in the previous governments, but also in the current government of Alexis Tsipras. Of course, Prime Minister, no one has any reincarnation, let alone a Member from the province who is able to survive politically without the Canadians. We, the province's MPs, who, through the walker, Prime Minister, that is to say, the indisputable relationship with the citizen, can really communicate with him and know us very well. But since you gave me this great opportunity and I see on my mobile messages sending out citizens, I also wanted to inform you and my colleagues, Prime Minister, that after I resigned, a few hours later, specifically the media said that my resignation was probably about the cases of the Lower Achaya Gypsy SGI. A full-published publication in the Sunday 'NATIONS' by Mr Bobola with a written report by Mr Patriou. He said evidence, we went to court and first instance, and in the appeal, father and son Bobolas were sentenced for twelve months in prison. No one ever found out there wasn't even a journalist. Stunning, Stunning, Stunning, Stunning, Stunning, Stunning, Stunning, Stunning, Stunning. Do you have paid mini-killers? Twelve months in prison, and I am sure that no colleague here knows it, as he will not know any more. The day before yesterday, we had a Defence Committee, Prime Minister. They were behind closed doors, classified committee. In a Sunday newspaper it was the first issue on the front page that “Nicolopoulos is blackmailing” because, in response to the government, I said: Have you checked the accounts of those journalists and publishers who are on the Lagard and Nikoloudis lists in relation to the “subjects” - you know that they are doing ‘where’ - to see those years if they had been declared? There is no mood for a reunification, Prime Minister, nor can parliamentary control be regarded as extortion. I agree, in other words, absolutely with you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As time has passed, Prime Minister, I would again like to thank you for having touched on this matter. I am sure you will not leave it in the middle, because you have the support for this whole issue of the entire Greek people. Prime Minister, do not waste your time and address the President of the River. Did you see him? Lucky. On the hearing that this is the media sewer, he ran away. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] That's right. What should man do now, with his former employers, with his supporters, would he stay here to hear this conversation? And if they pulled his ear, what would he do? In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask you to do this. I said names. In the questions I'm about to submit, you'll find for everyone their names, the loans they got. I think it is the government's duty to call for the control of these loan contracts. It is an obligation to ask for guarantees, as I think it is the duty of the Minister to call on the Presidents of the political parties of the New Democracy and PASOK and for those'marines' and to ask for guarantees before they run it, and they too, and we finally pay for the loans of both their pimps and their employees. Prime Minister, the Greek people gave you a unique mandate, according to the polls and well done, and you said so, Mr. Theodorakis. For Christ said, "Hey, have ears heard." The disciples said to Christ: “But do everyone have ears, how do they not listen?” So Theodorakis has ears, why doesn't he listen? And then Christ answered them: “They have heard of them.” So here, according to the polls, it seems on a daily basis that this unprecedented support for Greek political times, these samples of confidence in your face, Prime Minister, is power and please also us who took the big step and gave our confidence and our vote and our soul to you, do not disappoint us. Along with all the Greek people, allow us to applaud you every day, as we did today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u52	I will only say a few words, not only to Mr Nicholas, who has asked the question, but to all the Members. Look, I'm not here to applaud me, but I have a clear popular command. This people's mandate, whoever violates it, will have the consequences not of the people's month but of the month of history itself. I would therefore like to say, Mr Nicolopoulos and honourable Members, that an extremely critical negotiation is taking place at this time. We are not asking to be supported by those who by nails and teeth defended the interests of the Memorandum forces at the expense of the people, calling for the support of the Greek people regardless of what views or ideas it has. Of course, we are a government that has for the first time as a core left, but a government without bumpers, without dogmas, we are working with a party of centre-rights, we are open to all Greek women and all Greeks. I would also like to say to you that during these three months we have already made very important contributions to the support of the weak, the conflict with great interests, despite the fact that we are in a suffocating financial framework, because both our previous governments and our partners have already made sure that this strict suffocating framework is set aside from the lines of the people's mandate. Over the last few days it has been made clear to everyone that the Greek Government is doing what it needs to do, in order - by maintaining the mandate of the Greek people - to reach an honest agreement in the European field, an honest and mutually beneficial agreement with the partners. Some are ready to accuse us that, in order to achieve this, we have also gone behind the lines of the people's mandate. We will do everything in order to have an agreement that will enable this government to change the wrong texts in this place. I would like to assure you, however, that there is no longer any technical question as to whether or not this agreement will be reached. There is only a question of political will, as political will was the one that put the country in the European Economic Community in 1980, contrary to the view of the Commission, I would remind you, on Constantine Karamanlis, that it was the political will that placed the country in EMU and in the euro area in 2000, with Prime Minister Constantine Simitis when the country did not fulfil the conditions at that time. So, political will is now whether Europe will be tolerated, not a left-wing government, but democracy in the country that was born. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I want to assure you all and all that I am sure that everyone recognises the need to show political will and to protect democracy as a supreme value in our common home, Europe. Otherwise, the wrongdoer and the injured will not be the Greek Government, the wrongdoer and the injured will be Europe itself. Europe cannot withstand less democracy. And the crime of democracy in the land that was born will not have a silencer. No one puts a silencer on it if some people are trying to commit a crime and murder of democracy at the place where he was born. I am therefore optimistic that we will soon have a happy ending and that, despite the difficulties we will face, with the support of our people, we will be able to bring about the agreement that will soon be closed in Europe in order to get out of this crisis that has been created by some who, even today, want to continue to get rich on the back of the Greek people, who have now been plundered five years. We're honest, open and clear. So we will continue, because democracy has no dead ends. Democracy provides a way out for both the peoples and governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Prime Minister. And come here very often. To honor us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate of third number 170/28-4-2015 on the topical question by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Georgiou Excellency to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the extension of permits for livestock establishments. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Sir, you have the floor. Please start to speed up, because then there is legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. After the great and serious things that have been said in the Prime Minister's time, these little ones, which we, with the topical questions, seem even smaller.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u55	What you're going to say is big and serious will be. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u56	Minister, the livestock sector is one of the most sensitive and important areas for the development of Greek production and a strong element in tackling the food crisis experienced by our country. Long-term omissions and intrinsic weaknesses of governments to set the framework for strengthening farmers have led to a situation which is far from the requirements of modern livestock production. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] With the n. Provision is made for arrangements for livestock farming and in particular for livestock establishments. In fact, Article 14(1) provides that any establishment without authorisation must be authorised within three years of the adoption of the above law. Otherwise, the licence will be granted after a fine has been paid. The recording of livestock units, their authorisation and control are an undeniable step in the right direction. However, we must take into account some of the key parameters. Since livestock has been affected by the crisis and the income of farmers has shrinked and unable to meet their obligations, because the multitude of supporting documents and the difficulties of implementing the law make the whole process expensive and time-consuming, as the scholars admit, because it is crucial to seek to strengthen this production sector, because many livestock areas have been affected by natural disasters, because the deadline for the submission of supporting documents for authorisation expired on 12 March 2015, is the Minister asking: Is it designed to extend the deadline for the application of the law without imposing a fine, which will relieve farmers and help the services responsible in organising their work? Will the extension have retrospective effect in order to benefit more farmers? Is a national policy plan capable of mapping and categorising all flocks in a database to effectively manage and implement appropriate policies towards a definitive solution to the issue of authorisation of the country's livestock production units? How can this mapping and categorisation lead to a modern and more accurate account of the country's livestock? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 15th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] For three minutes the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy has the floor, Mr Apostolos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u58	My dear colleague, your findings do indeed correspond to the situation experienced by Greek livestock farming. The problems are many and we are trying to approach them as much as possible and to solve them. One of these problems is the need to extend the time limit for the legalisation of the stack facilities. As is well known, with Mr. L. Incentives were introduced for the legalisation of these establishments with a view to the development and strengthening of Greek livestock farming, particularly in the field of the production of products of animal origin. That is why a three-year period has been given from 12-3-2012, a deadline which expired on 12-3-2015, without in essence answering the amendment's request, which was the legalisation of the stack facilities. The reasons are many. One of them is that the licensing of these facilities is also affected by the relevant legislation relating to the legal framework of forests, forest areas and even closes to the regulation on arbitrary buildings. Other reasons are that these provisions also apply to other types of legislation. And, of course, we must admit that the farmers themselves did not have the necessary vigilance to implement this regulation. In view of all the above, and particularly in order to avoid effects which may exist on livestock farming from this delay, we have already prepared an amendment to that effect, which we have already promoted. He is in the process of getting into one of the upcoming bills. We're ready. In this amendment, therefore, we transfer the deadline for legalising these installations, proposing an eighteen-month extension, i.e. until 12-9-2016. Until then, however, and because, as you know, there is too much of the problems that exist in this particular process, we should see how we simplify this whole process in order to make it easier for farmers to respond. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] But I want to make one thing clear from the start. It should never go through the mind of farmers that there is a possibility that cases of reforestation may be dealt with at the legislative initiative of our own government. However, since the issues of the livestock sector are a lot - and you referred to them in your second question - in my second question - I shall continue in particular with regard to the concerns we must have about support for livestock farming.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Excellency has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u60	Minister, I am pleased that the issues have gone ahead before the question has been tabled. Of course, the question has been tabled for a long time and we have reinstated it. In any case, the eighteen-month period is given for this problem which concerns a large number of farmers and concerns the extension of the issue of licences. A second question is that we should simplify the way in which this is implemented. 4056/2012 with interventions from your Ministry and perhaps other relevant Ministries, so that you don't need so much documentation for issuing this type of installation license. Finally, the government must take legislative initiatives concerning the primary sector as a basic lever for our country's development, as well as the possibility of food adequacy with our own agricultural and livestock quality products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Excellency. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u62	I think the questions relating to the stable facilities have been answered. We will also do through the procedure of ministerial decisions that enable us to regulate and simplify this policy in order to facilitate the area. For our part, however, because there is an absolute need to support this sector, we are already in a process of implementing a national livestock plan. In any case, however, there are so many problems that we are obliged to see at this time the large part of aid for the area, for which, as you know, poor management has unfortunately led to categorisations which have forced us to seek from farmers the money that has been paid and, of course, to losses of a large part of the aid, which the farmers have experienced in particular last year. So we are making an effort there, but what is the most important part I would say is that this is our attempt to have a more permanent character. We are already preparing legislation on the management of grazing land by means of this procedure, seeking to identify in the first place the temporary plans for the management of grazing land, which in future will have a permanent, definite character, so that, through this permanent nature, each farmer can have the areas available, not only to meet the eligibility requirements, which are necessary to obtain the aid, but above all to respond to the other major need that is, I would say, the biggest problem of the area - of course, the rural area, but it is particularly agricultural - production costs, feed costs in this particular case. We believe that through these management plans, the grazing land areas will also create these conditions for the production of feed, even though we have already talked about landfills in these areas, the permanent and stacked facilities and all these livestock-supporting activities. So there we want your support too. It is a great effort and we believe that we will soon respond to this problem. From there on, I conclude by saying that animal production, livestock production, is the agricultural activity that can produce us products of quality, PDO, geographical indication and these are the products with which we can fight the great battle at global level.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the fourth topical question under No 164/28-4-2015 of the Member of Parliament Kozani of the New Republic, George Kasapidis, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the timetable for the payment of financial support under the programmes for infectious diseases. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer that. Before I give the floor to Mr. Kasapidis, I must inform the House of the information on the part of the Prime Minister's office that we are asked to announce to the House that the 32-6-5-2015 presidential decree, published in the FEK 45-6-5-2015 issue I, was appointed Dimitrios Papagelopoulos of Friday in the place of Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u64	Also, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent report on Monday 11 May 2015. QUESTIONS OF THE First Circle (Rules 129(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 185/5-2015 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Stathas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the price of the tolls of the Regional Unit of Boeotia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 187/5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegenakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the deprivation of the fourteen regional airports. 3. The 172/30-4-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the legislative safeguarding of disability pensions and the undisclosed first residence. 4. The 192/5-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the financing programme for children's stations. 5. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the one-stopping of the passage of the port of Rio - Antirios. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 182/5-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the cleaning of the Thermaikos Gulf. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 188/5-2015 topical question by MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr Panagiotis (Noti) Mitaraki to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding delays in the expansion of the airport of Chios. 3. The 194/5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntagakis, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Administrative Reconstruction, on the problems in the operation of Creative Employment Centres for Children (CEDEFOP) and Children with Disabilities (CEDEFOP). 4. The 176/4-5-2015 topical question of the country's immigration policy by the Member of the Attica of the Independent Greeks, Paul Haikalis, Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction. 5. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the legislative arrangements for the adoption of the Preciousness Claims. 6. The question by No. 168/28-4-2014 of the Greek People's Association MP Ilias Panagiotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of the name of Macedonia to the Skopje". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 155/28-4-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy, on measures for the new anti-nuclear period. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1328/3-32015 of the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP for Athens of New Democracy Mr Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the privatisation of the Piraeus Port Authority (PO). I would also like to inform you that the honourable Member, Mr Metarakis, is applying for permission for a transition to the United States from 18 to 22 May. The House approves?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u65	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. By listening to the honourable Minister's previous question, I would also like to add some notes, Mr Minister. I am very pleased that you are talking about a national plan for this heavy industry in the country, which is livestock. It is the largest industry in the open roof, as it employs three hundred, 000 workers on a permanent basis. Mr President, there is no other industry in the country on a permanent basis that offers so many jobs and produces at least EUR 1 billion annually added wealth to the country's Gross Domestic Product. Two proposals, Minister, to this national plan, I would like to do what you are talking about and say that you will consult. Conditions for the implementation of such a productive reconstruction plan are essential infrastructures for the primary sector - light, water and road. Of course, these infrastructures presuppose residence permits and state exactly what needs to be done. It requires health care for farmers, in their herds, it takes agricultural training to enable them to implement modern techniques in their production and clearly production insurance and timely payment of compensation and aid. On these two issues of compensation and payment of aid for damages or subsidies to farmers, I would like to refer to the question I have put to you, Minister, by saying that a joint ministerial decision of the previous government has been adopted to compensate farmers who have either slaughtered their animals because of bluetongue or other infectious diseases, as they are said. However, this decision was not approved by the General Accounting Office of the State and as a result these producers, while they have lost their livestock, have not taken the compensation to buy new animals to get into production. You know they're literally tied up with hands, as they don't have the ability to buy livestock with their own funds. They can't get into production, they can't make statements to the IACC and they're literally in the air. What do you intend to do, Minister, so that immediately these farmers can get into production so that they can make the income for their family, but can also legalise their rights with the statements of the IACC that expire shortly? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kasapidis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, before entering the general point, I should like to reply specifically to the question concerning the joint ministerial decision. This Decision of November 2014 was indeed not implemented as a result of the non-approval of the subsequent credit, with the result that the problems, i.e. the obligations of the country's livestock resolution programme, have not been identified, the obligations relating in particular in 2014 to emergency response issues arising from the occurrence of the blessing from bluetongue. As a result, the commitments made in the joint ministerial decision have not been implemented since the necessary credit was not provided. So we have already worked out - and we are at the final stage - a joint ministerial decision. Within the days - two, three - it will be made public. This extends to all problems by providing and ensuring at the same time an amount of approximately EUR 22 to 23 million. It will be allocated for the financial support, grant and compensation of measures relating to the resolution of livestock for 2015. Of course, a sum exceeding EUR 8.5 million from the outset will go to meet the needs, the commitments made since 2014 and the damage that had to be done - and there was a commitment - to meet them. The rest of the amount - what I told you, about 13 million - will go for the resolution of livestock. At the same time, of course, because epizootic diseases, animals, have created major problems, particularly bluetongue throughout Greece, we have taken the relevant decision and announced that the prevention of bluetongue will be dealt with - they have already entered the process - by granting an vaccine. This is a vaccine which, through authorisation procedures, has shown that it concerns three specific preparations - that is, they have the approval of the Member State - and they can, of course, be used voluntarily by farmers. The farmers themselves will only cover the costs, which we have investigated on the market, from EUR 1 to EUR 1.2. The cost of vaccination will be made by veterinarians - farmers already in the process of spreading throughout the country. Of course, the costs in this case are borne by the State itself, by the breeders themselves, who will not be charged a minute, not only in this case, but also by the entire project offer, which they have undertaken to carry out. These are issues that the Ministry of Development will cover. As you understand, my dear fellow Member, however, within this framework, the economic and financial difficulties that we are experiencing are too many. We are doing everything we can in this direction, because as you have said, and we have this as a key objective. In particular, the quality status of this area is a matter for us, because it is the only - or the most important - way out for support for livestock farming. I'll talk to my dentist about the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. Mr. George Kasapidis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u70	I welcome the Minister's reply, Mr President, because it is indeed giving a solution to the burning problem of farmers who have not received these allowances. Suffice, Minister, this decision you announced will be published in the next few days to find implementation immediately next week. You understand we're already in the summer. Any farmer who has not received these allowances and who is not herds, now finds it hard to buy animals to get into this production process, save their money to prosecute their families, but also to their household in general. So I would point out the problem, and I would ask you to address this issue as quickly as you can, so that this money can be paid by means of the extradition, the publication of this decision. I would also like to emphasise, in my turn, the decision made by the Ministry clearly with the technical contributions of the vaccination sciences this year for bluetongue. We could have implemented it last year and avoided these problems, as other countries had done - there were data from foreign countries. It is, however, important to do this, even this year. I just wanted to point out, too, that last year the farmers for the healing of their herds spent a lot more money than they could be costing them now and they didn't find a cure. So, even now, it can also go to the ELGA Regulation to cover these costs from state expenditure. Finally, I would like to point out, Minister, that this is part of the solution to the problem. The problem with livestock is huge. I mentioned the basic infrastructure, health care, agricultural education, production insurance and the timely payment of subsidies. I think this is a basic condition and I am pleased to hear you say it and commit yourself. I hope that both the government and the Prime Minister will strive to lift the transfer of the name of feta to Canada, Singapore and that no such agreement will go ahead with America, as is now the case with the negotiation of Europe and America. I heard you say that you will bring back the life expectancy of fresh pasteurised milk at five days. Let's see, Minister. This must also be done immediately. I would also like to point out that an important issue for livestock is the lifting of the decision on the placing on the market of the European Union, so also of our country, of mutated products, starting with the honey containing mutated pollen, without labelling. And this, Minister, is at least an insulting decision, where you must veto the institutions of the European Union in order not to implement this decision. For certainly, especially on agricultural production, it destroys the vital interests of European agriculture, much more than Greek agriculture, where huge biodiversity is the comparative advantage, and it is abolished by the movement of mutants and even without labelling on the European market. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u72	There are many issues, many issues and I think that time is not enough. One, two, but one, to approach them. The first is, as far as mutants are concerned, that on Monday there is a Council of Ministers in Brussels and within the Council, we have a meeting with the Hungarian colleague, who takes an initiative of a clear position - as far as the European Union is concerned - a ban on the import of mutants into the countries of the European Union. Another point you raised in your relative position was that of battle - which we are starting here, on other conditions - with good conditions - to defend the geographical indication of feta. The debate has already been opened at committee level. We have made it clear that we cannot accept it, nor can the Greek society accept it, nor can the Greek Parliament accept it. And, of course, from this point of view - and we have made it clear to them - we find it difficult to say the final 'yes', because there is already a pre-agreement, which you know, Mr Kasapidis, which you have fought a great deal since the New Democracy and PASOK took the view of the OECD report, without even having to do that. We are therefore fighting a battle in this direction. At our meeting with the Commissioner for Agriculture, he left the issue open, particularly through his legal approach, and would like to give us the picture that it is something positive that has been done, to see it on the way until it is finalised so that we can make things a little clearer. One thing is clear: in no other product of the European Union's geographical indication, there is no name "type of feta, feta stylus" etc. In everything, their name is clear. So, in this case, we also emphasise that feta is feta, which is produced in Greece, under the specific conditions, with this particular vegetation and which is tied up - I would say - with our culture and local societies. So we will support this up to the end and we want your support, because there will be some debate and they will come back here again. We are now talking now, in the near future, through a conference that will take place with all the livestock for the date of consumption of milk, to be lifted from seven to five days. It will be a process which will take place in consultation with all the parties involved, and from there we will also ask the Greek Parliament to have the unanimous approval. We have a way in front of us, we'll see you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Next is the sixth question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis, Minister for Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning measures to safeguard the rights of aid for the flooded farmers of the affected regions of Evros, Serres, Boeotia and Artas. And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Apostleou. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I know that other relevant questions have been tabled by colleagues, as well as various statements from institutions to your government about the flood disasters in various regions of our country, Evros, Xanthi, Komotini, Serres, Arta and other areas. These floods, as known, have caused destruction in homes, fields, roads and other infrastructures. But, Minister, from all this disaster, we believe the need for the immediate promotion of an integrated plan for flooding has emerged and we would like your opinion and the planning of your government in general and of your ministry in this direction. At the same time, however, there is also the need for immediate compensation and assistance to farmers who have been affected, particularly small and medium-sized farmers, namely poor farmers. To date, your Government has done nothing but record a place, namely in some areas, of disasters. Minister, however, there is a serious issue that needs to be addressed immediately. There is a risk that farmers who cannot enter their fields, because these are still flooded or remain mud, will lose aid rights. It is well known to you that according to the new, revised common agricultural policy, the one that will apply from 2015 to 2020, what will be declared this year will apply until 2020. You also know that there is legislation guaranteeing farmers with an application to join the regime for cases of force majeure and exceptional cases. To date, however, your Government has announced nothing about this process of integration of farmers who have been affected. And we ask you in particular: What measures will the government take to ensure that the rights of the five-year period are guaranteed in view of the new common agricultural policy for the flooding farmers who will not be able to grow this year so that they do not lead to total catastrophe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u76	Mr Colleagues, you raised many issues and did not allow us to answer everything. But we will try to respond to what the Greek farmer really expects to hear. I will focus in particular on the issue of safeguarding payment entitlements in the flooded areas. With regard to the final date for the submission of the single payment to the IACS, we decided to use the opportunity provided by the European Union Regulation and to extend for this year the deadline for submitting single payment applications until Tuesday, June 2, 2015. It is necessary for everyone to be facilitated, let alone when it comes to the first year of application of the new CAP. In their request farmers must declare all areas of their holding both the main crops and the preservatives which they have in mind to cultivate throughout the year of aid. It will be submitted, because the background on which these people are presented does not reflect the flooding phenomena, which are still, unfortunately, visible. In these areas, therefore, they will have no impact on the declaration of their crops. They'll be submitted. Of course, through the time-limit for submitting their applications, they are normally involved in the next phase of the process of granting basic payment rights. I would point out once again that producers must state their real situation, the one they have had in mind since the beginning of the year. When we enter the process next, where we had flooded trees, they will declare the category 'not available because of force majeure'. Those who have flooded arable lands will declare either the set-aside category or the crop they would grow, at the same time stating the 'not available because of force majeure'. Of course, in this case they should also produce the relevant seed market documents. We want to be clear from the beginning. The force majeure will be documented by the services of the ELGA, by the Departments of Agricultural Economy. Of course, farmers will know where they declared force majeure not to try to cultivate later, because we will have penalties and already in our relationship with the European Commission, we have made it clear that we will be sincere in this effort. That's about rights. As far as the part of ELGA is concerned, I have to tell you that in most areas the counting process has already been completed, the checks have been carried out, we are just now at the time of individualisation of all damage and, of course, our access to the other fields has been completed. Yesterday I was in Orestia, Evros. The withdrawal process of water has not been completed. In this respect, therefore, when we come up with cases of livestock and plant production directly covered, they will be paid. As far as the other issues relating to income aid are concerned, I will tell them in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u78	Minister, first of all regardless of the outcome of the accession, I would like to say what you have said about farmers. But you're saying they should buy the seeds. So what farmer's going to cost, buy seeds and wait for no income? Where is he going to come from to prove that his field is flooded? Can't that be certified today? Can it not be certified at any time that, in any case, what the farmer was thinking about sowing is not practical, because the period has passed? So we have to put him in a row of expenses, waiting for his complete destruction, and he owes him a debt from above? Let us say this: taking into account the general policy you are implementing, it will not only run at these costs, it will also run the carpets and debts that farmers have to pay for. That's what you ask them to do as a patriotic duty. Minister, for us it is very important and it is not a matter of time whether or not we should answer it, because these disasters did not come from the rains. This situation is repeated in a tragic way every year or, at any rate, every two years. And it's not the rain, because no one has cleaned up forty-five years canals, rivers, lakes. It is not the rain because there is not even a flooding task and, of course, it is not the rain because there is not even planning, not even in the long run, to deal with escalating situations in certain areas that are mainly responsible for these disasters. Of course, we know who has it: the governments so far. They also have responsibilities for mayors and regional managers, because this policy, not only supported it over the years but also implemented it, at least some of it. What policy? This policy of the European Union, which does not consider anti-flood projects to be eligible. How can one explain that in Evros, Komotini, Xanthi, who has been drowned this year, there is not even any anti-military work in planning the region and not even in their proposals for accession to the new NRP? Mr Minister, in our view, these problems are elsewhere, because elsewhere the cause lies. It is generally in the organization of the economy, which primarily aims to serve profits rather than to protect human needs, housing, crops, roads and infrastructure. In any case, we urgently call for the registration of damages to be completed, for compensation to be given for all disasters, for government funding to be provided for the implementation of an integrated plan for flooding infrastructures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u80	My dear colleague, I told you in the current Rules of Procedure how to ensure that the area is aided. As far as the cost of the seed is concerned, it is minimal in the face of the request at this time, which is to safeguard its rights. From there on, two important issues are still outstanding. One is that there will be a national action plan to address these problems, which unfortunately in some regions are repeated every year. This is our aim and effort. I am already telling you that it has been sent from our Ministry to the co-legislative ministers, a letter setting out to them that we want to see how we serve a national action plan, which will be launched first and foremost by how we deal with water management through a definitive and permanent solution to these areas. You know that especially in Evros we have relations with neighbouring countries about this phenomenon. There must be a consultation with Turkey, but in particular with Bulgaria, which often at meetings within the European Union says that 'yes, together we will go etc.' and when she returns to her country she does what she does every year and puts us in front of major problems. So there we have to give a special foundation. The other question is how in these areas we will ensure the income that is lost. So there we will try, of course, within the current ELGA regulation, to see how it can be covered. However, I can inform you that a very large part cannot be covered, whether it concerns damage to building equipment or a loss of income due to non-agricultural activities. In this case, then, we will try through the 2007-2013 Rural Development Programme, where we have a very long delay - we risk not absorbing more than one billion - and following a request from the European Commission for a six-month extension, putting many of these damages to equipment, buildings and plant capital, which are the nature of the investment, because it is a restoration of damage, in this programme, to absorb money. Also, there is a huge issue with the loss of income. You know that the loss of income will be covered by state aid, which needs the approval of the European Commission to be given. We'll make a relevant file. I wish the Solidarity Fund could meet our request. That's where we need other procedures. The damage needs to be more than 1.5% of the region's GDP. It takes a lot of procedures, but if we can from the Solidarity Fund get money, we will fight. However, because things are difficult there, we will be asking for the payment of State aid - what you all know, whether it is de minimis or MAGPs - to cover obligations there, of course, to make it clear, taking into account the budgetary conditions that exist in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the fourth question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charula Kafantaris to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the Certification Laboratory of the Directorate of Control, Atmospheric Pollution and Noise. He is present and will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I would like to see time redistributed for protagonists. Minister, unfortunately, the debate we are having today on the Accreditation Laboratory of the Directorate for Control, Atmospheric Pollution and Noise of the Ministry is under the shadow of the accident, which took place in ELPE this morning, an accident in which, apart from the pollutants that were spread in the afflicted Triumph, we have unfortunately also had some injuries so far. So the issue we are now developing is about air pollution, atmospheric pollution, which is a cause, a ganger for our country, especially after the memorials that have passed, with ozone, which is a summer problem, is of course a problem in general for the European capitals. In recent years, the former YEPEKA, through the Quality Department of Atmospheric Pollution, Atmospheric Pollution and Noise, has implemented a series of actions: the expansion of the air pollution monitoring network in the Greek area, the monitoring of atmospheric pollution concentrations, which have not been mitigated in the past, the upgrading of processes for processing, analysis and dissemination of relevant information to the relevant European institutions and the establishment of the National Air Pollution Monitoring Network. According to what is true, the Department of Quality of Attica is responsible for Attica, while the responsibility for the installation and operation of the rest of the stations is in the regions around Greece, based on the ‘KALIKRATI’. The National Monitoring Network is currently composed of thirty one stations, of which twenty-four are running, with a number of gaseous pollutants and particulates analysers, which are controlled for their proper operation and regulated, i.e. calibrated. The performance of these analysers during their use is not stable, resulting in a change in their metrological characteristics. That is why they must be checked and redefined and calibrated. In order to ensure their smooth, uninterrupted and reliable operation, there is a need for maintenance and control with known concentration, known flow patterns. That's the calibration. In order for the whole system to be credible, bottles with standard gases, as well as their flows, must be checked for their reliability. The Accreditation Laboratory, which exists at the Ministry, formerly Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has ISO 17025 accreditation for two calibrations, calibration of known concentration gas pollutants, calibration of calibration flows and two tests, one for ozone and one for PM10 particles. It is unique in Greece, with standard technology. I'm talking about this lab. But his powers don't stop here. In the same way, bottles of standard gases and flow of calibration units could be controlled in many industries, such as - and here too - PPC and ELPE. So there will be a double benefit: on the one hand, a financial benefit to public and better control by the competent authorities. In other words, a large industry - and I am referring to the ELPEs at the moment - can maintain a record of measurements and analysts. However, the verifier may hardly question the reliability of the measurements. The laboratory's perspective must be to control not only the gas analyser but also the cylinders of standard gases as well as the flow of calibration units. In view of this, this workshop could also export technology abroad and bring economic benefits to our country. I have no intention at this time of disagreement with the government or with the Minister. The question is to be updated, made known in some way, first of all, the serious role that this laboratory plays and further efforts at a small financial cost, which will give even more public benefits. And that is why I ask you, Minister, if you are considering legislation on the costing and provision of services by the laboratory to third parties - agencies, private individuals - so that there will be economic benefits for the Greek State. And, of course, if there is an opportunity to strengthen incomplete staff, it should be constantly retrained so that it could play this important role. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-two students and students and four teachers from the Elementary School of Argyropoulou Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Tsironis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kafantaris, I don't think the question with this accident could be any more time-consuming. Indeed, the measurement of the air pollutants in Greece is still almost in the spasm. Of course, too big steps have been taken. And it's not just what we live every winter. These are our tourist areas where from an extremely advantageous industrial activity, such as processing olive oil, there are complaints about odors and, of course, there are no methods to measure what smells, how smells and how much responsibilities the relevant professionals have. The question obviously has two legs to answer. One is in what state the network is currently in. Because, as you said, unfortunately the network is in a bad situation. Fortunately, at the moment, there is a EUR 3.6 million programme in the EMCDDA - which is in one-third of its completion - and there is a very large upgrade. And at the moment we have not only reached the upgrade of the network, which was aged and had a time limit on the measurements, but mainly it did not measure all pollutants, but we are also in the process of expanding the network and we will even go to other cities, which are not mentioned in your question, such as Kavala, Kozani, Ptolemaida, Mytilini and Megalopolis. The second element that is important - which we again have this smaller EUR 460,000 programme to upgrade the laboratory - is that the laboratory operates, has been certified and has already given sixty-seven certificates. I shall submit to the Minutes the certificates and a more informative note. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It's a very modern laboratory. It's very high-tech and the staff, as you quite rightly said, are very specialized. It is not something that is easy to deal with. For there to be continuity conditions, not only can staff positions be jeopardised, but others must be extended and taught. The most important point is the extroversion, which is the subject of the question. Personally, I'm a champion of extroversion. This laboratory needs to be exploited. It's the only one in Greece. There's no other lab at that level, not even private. And it is obvious that it is both for the benefit of society and the private Greeks. And it's not just PPC and ELPE. There are too many individuals who bring bottles and need certification. Yeah, we need this lab to get out of the way. Yeah, he's got to have more staff. And I think that this staff will not only be charged with the budget, but, on the contrary, it will be very profitable, because there is this need.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u86	Minister, your answers positively. Very important that you mentioned the lab's extroversion. I am here to say that this workshop has been set up with personal work and efforts by the already employed there by scientists. It appears here, if you will, and how the public today, like us and you as a member of the government, want to operate, in other words, at a competitive level, with quality and support for the public service, which has been dispersed, but we see that it is doing a specific scientific work. I would just like to add here, by closing that the accreditation of the laboratory in itself cannot succeed in its effective operation. It must now be strengthened to staff, as I have said before, and there must be a specific retraining of staff and the Ministry must support it financially. That is to say, there is a quality system in the laboratory that will be guaranteed through the National Accreditation System. It has been estimated that this can be done at a small annual cost around EUR 3 000. And of course, to renew the equipment and consider it important to extend the network, as you mentioned before. Thank you very much and thank the President for his tolerance in my prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. I would like to say the following to the House before we come to the conclusion: The Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Economics submitted to the House a draft law entitled "Publishing a payment order for claims under an administrative contract concluded in the context of a trade transaction". The draft law shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice. Also, let me say that the sixth question by No 166/28-4-2015 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassidiari, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the exploitation of our national wealth and energy policy, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The first question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the restoration of damage to the infrastructure of the Municipality of Kassandra from the floods of the last ten days of February, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister and deleted. The second question with number 176/20-2-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the biomass plant in Kopanadas, P.E. Hercules, it is not discussed by the Minister's impediment and deleted. Also, the third question under number 836/16-3-2015 question by MP II of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the Regulatory Authority for Energy is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Mr. Deputy Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. The lab, Ms. MEP, has already received an accreditation from the USSR since 22 December 2014. It's the one I testified in the Minutes. I do not know whether this accreditation relates to all the work you are currently doing or only to the specific work it is doing for the sake of Community legislation. I think we are on a very good road to expand to any air pollutant measurement activity. You are absolutely right that staff effort at the moment was heroic. They really honor public officials such initiatives. These few people are doing an excellent job. It is the technical manager, the quality officer, the operator and three technical trainees, i.e. three technicians. They are really very few for the work they produce. I will immediately explore - and I commit myself to this - how it is possible at the moment to expand this activity and indeed to actually acquire the extroversion that we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed and we are interrupting the sitting for a moment to enter the legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Resolution as a whole of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions". You have been given the bill as formulated by Parliament during the debate on articles, etc. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u91	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u92	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u93	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u94	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures to deal with violence in sport and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in principle, Articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u95	We are now entering the supplementary agenda of legislative work: only debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, 'Enough measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education'. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to what had been decided before, how we were oriented to have the debate, and then I will give the Minister the floor for some necessary adjustments, time and procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that this bill was declared by the government as urgent, in accordance with Article 76(4) of the Constitution. Parliament's Standing Committee on Forum Affairs accepted the designation of the above-mentioned draft law as urgent, as set out in Rule 109(2) of the Rules of Procedure and carried out three meetings. It submitted its report on 7-5-2015, as set out in paragraph 3 of the above Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Immediately after the bill was drawn up as a priority on the agenda, as provided for in Rule 52(1) of the Rules of Procedure and by way of derogation from Rule 91(7) thereof. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 109(4), (5) and (6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the debate and vote of the urgent drafts is closed at a sitting of a maximum of ten hours. At the beginning of the sitting, the House may, on a proposal from its President, determine the time allocated to the first and second readings. If, for any reason, a Parliament decision has not been taken, four and six hours respectively for the first and second readings. Apart from the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and one of their representatives are involved in the first and second debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. In view of the above, I would like to suggest that we discuss the draft law in principle and on the articles of the Single Act, in order to give the rapporteurs, the special speakers, but also the MPs, time and place themselves on the bill. I also propose that two speakers be heard from SYRIZA, two speakers from some from New Democracy, one speaker appointed by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, one speaker appointed by the Potami, one speaker appointed by the JRC, one speaker appointed by the Independent Greeks and one speaker appointed by the PASOK. Speaking time I propose that the rapporteurs and special speakers should have 15 minutes of speaking time, the responsible Minister, nine minutes, the co-legislative ministers, nine minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, ten minutes, the Presidents of the other Parliamentary groups seven and a half minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, six minutes, the speakers appointed by the parties six minutes. Secondary periods are defined as half of the above-mentioned speaking years, except in the years of the rapporteurs, specialist speakers and speakers. I believe in this regard that there is an acceptance of what we have said. However, after a consultation on the basis of the actual objective facts, I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Kourakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, we have entered the urgent procedure. We had invoked a number of dates and entered this procedure. Today, this is the procedure - as we have heard from the President-in-Office - which provides for the time that you have heard. However, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House, when amendments and ministerial and parliamentary committees have been tabled, the procedure cannot be concluded with its vote today. Furthermore, as I have heard from the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, a request for a roll-call vote will be made. Although we could have a roll-call vote today, we cannot get over the obstacle at all because we have amendments precisely, we have to discuss them another day, that is Tuesday. So, for reasons of better imprinting the Members' opinion, as to whether it will be a roll-call vote today or Tuesday, I think that Tuesday is a day that enables more Members to participate in the roll-call vote in such an important bill. However, since that is the case, the Ministry's proposal is that we could, since we could - although I have to say first of all - that time is marginal in terms of deadlines and we will ensure that the FEK comes out as quickly as possible - with the permission of this House, I propose that we should be able to discuss today, not with the pressing times that the urgency is imposing, but with a greater comfort, as we know it, with a list of speakers - and, of course, only with the agreement of the whole House, because the Members are not prepared to take part in such an extensive debate - we should go on Tuesday with an article and talk about the amendments then, make a roll-call vote and conclude the debate on Tuesday. I think that this is how we come to a, as much as we can talk about this important bill. I have heard that this House, as a sovereign body, can go beyond the commitments we have heard from the President, and if the rest of the parties agree, we shall proceed in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u97	I guess it's practically more helpful. Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u98	I will be very brief, Mr President. I agree with the proposal by the Deputy Minister of Education that the debate should be held on two meetings in substance. To discuss today in the organized way in which we have defined, with the organised speakers, but at ease of time, because there will be no pressure to conclude the debate within the hour and on the articles. The New Democracy will submit a request for a roll-call vote in principle and on specific articles. On Tuesday we can begin with Parliament's assent and earlier this sitting, if there is agreement from the Members at 12 noon or at 13 noon, to vote at the beginning of the sitting, then to proceed with the debate on the articles, to open a list of speakers, so as to allow Members who may not want or cannot be present today, to place themselves on Tuesday and to conclude the vote on Tuesday evening on amendments and on the articles and then to arrange for the Government and the Secretariat-General to issue the relevant CVTs at as quickly as possible. I think that in this way, too, any suspicion that the argument in favour of urgency may be related to the fact that the government did not want time for the House to discuss the bill in detail, and I think our complaints against urgency can also be waived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Petrakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Ministry of Education, despite what he has heard, has shown that he is actually listening and has a great democratic sensitivity. Whilst time is suffocating - and my fellow Members know it - because, on 13 May at the latest, the FEK must have come out on a number of issues relating to urgent arrangements - the Minister today and the Deputy Minister accept the need for greater comfort and for the opinion of Members to be expressed. We agree with the Ministry's proposal. It shows a high democratic mind, as well as a democratic conscience. We, too, agree with the proposal of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, and we propose that, immediately after parliamentary scrutiny, the debate that I think exists on Tuesday morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u101	We can start earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u102	To begin at 12.00' so that there is greater comfort of time, to finish in time, so that it can be voted on in full, if possible. But we will also have to commit ourselves on Tuesday to vote on all of this so that it can take immediate effect, so that we do not lose the deadlines. They also understand that there are certain deadlines, which we cannot exceed, because we will cause problems for students. That must be our concern. Do not cause problems for students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u103	On behalf of the Parliamentary Representatives of the Golden Dawn, Mr Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I have just noticed on a point of order a New Democracy and SYRIZA agreement. I would therefore expect - and I expect - to listen in terms of Officerial Responsibility and its position on the amendment on the mosque building in Athens. In any case, I have to say this on the proposal from the Minister: because in the recent past we have all witnessed the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House being literally rubber, we stick to the position and want the Rules of Procedure. Whatever the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u105	Mrs Lyberaki has the floor on behalf of the party The Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. In turn, we welcome this slight change in the programme. We believe it will be in the interests of dialogue and the exchange of arguments to prolong the debate on the draft law another day, in which Members from all parties may be more easily involved. We do, of course, have a slight reservation that this may have been compulsory, because it could not have been the case because of the amendments that the debate today would normally be concluded and perhaps the government would have to insist on the need for plausibility. In any case, we fully share our enthusiasm for this change in the programme and will contribute to this debate in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, we have no objection on the basis of what the debate has said today at first, on Tuesday at noon and on Tuesday evening. It is another thing to make it easier, and it is another thing about democratic sensitivity and everything that has been said. Let me say that it started with this process and - as if it were done - while the government had spent three months with a bill that could have prepared it after all. So these about democratic sensitivity, etc. are not justified. We therefore agree with what has been said so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u109	Mrs Xulidou has the floor on behalf of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we have all prepared ourselves today to place ourselves both on the articles and on the amendments. If the Bureau sees it as a greater facility to give time to debate the bill and on Tuesday, we have no objection. But put down the dates. Tuesday we've got 12 months and 13:00 a.m. starts. I don't know if there's a time limit for extradition within a day. Otherwise, we have no problem continuing the bill on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, we appreciate the democratic sensitivity of the government. We have, however, supported the committee's view that the draft law cannot be concluded with these urgent procedures. We had said that the urgent or urgent need to be incorporated into yesterday's bill, as was done with the two articles of the Ministry of Education and that time should be given to such an interesting subject for Parliament and the world, such as education, to be discussed properly, not even as an emergency. Unfortunately, this has not been possible in committee. I am pleased, however, that today it has been understood, even with this procedure. We believe that the issues relating to education should, if possible, have cross-party support. Because, alas, if each party that comes to power, with urgent bills, overturns such basic issues as the whole of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Kremastein. Of course, I am tempted to make just one observation. Today we had a special process. We had, for the first time, the Prime Minister's time and could not schedule the debate. That was an additional reason - beyond the amendments and the other remarks made - which led us to this adaptation, to this change, which is always in the Parliament's crisis in order to move forward. So we're moving on. Let's not be late, let's give the floor to the Minister. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u114	When are we going to write, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, colleagues ask when the speakers will be writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u116	Tuesday will be the listing of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u117	I'll see you around. If I have to, I'll interrupt. Because we need to adjust to the new data, we'll let you know in time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u118	Let us make it clear, Mr President, what will happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u119	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, if the Minister, the rapporteurs, the speakers, some of the parties, speaks, I do not know whether the list of other Members can be opened. I do not know, in other words, whether other Members will be able to speak today than those I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, let me clarify something. Just because there will be confusion between Members who are not here today and Members who are here, the proposal was from the outset that the list of speakers should be opened on Tuesday during the first speakers on the articles, so that all Members will be placed on the same level on Tuesday that there will be plenty of time. Today we shall proceed on the basis of the organised debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u122	I think there's no objection. That makes sense, because the Members were not prepared for this change of procedure. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President, as I thank the House for agreeing to this change, which is of benefit to the debate. With regard to the suffering that this bill has suffered, I would like to say that the government was invited in the middle of the school and academic year to face urgent problems in the educational process. This has dictated a delay in the processing of specific points which we wanted to change. Of course, I must say to you that we would like there to be greater comfort in consultation and exchange of views. The bill to combat violence in sport was the first to come. So since the dates were too suffocating, we first had to put the changes to that bill and then come according to the urgency procedure, as you know. I am pleased that, regardless of the opinion that each party has on the need for these changes or not, we all recognise that at the stage we have arrived, we have to adapt to certain dates so that they have been voted on Tuesday night. Because, you know, independently - I repeat - in the opinion of everyone, if they are not voted on, a huge disharmony is caused with a great impact on the students themselves, both in their examinations and then in the school year, which will start from September. I must also tell you that the Ministry has attempted a very big change. Already in the bill passed yesterday - today his vote was completed and the whole - the abolition of the topic bank was included. I will not go into that. We talked about it yesterday. It is very important that we remain faithful to our election commitments, on the basis of which we were voted on by the Greek people, to reconstitute the specialities of technical education, to restore teachers who were available or made redundant and some other issues. The Greek people therefore know the intentions of the government and its commitments. And that's what we're doing. Today's bill makes a great change in the direction of as many children as possible to study in higher education. I'd say it's a fairer system, that we're expanding their choices. For all this, students feel very well. There's no objection. I have seen that even Parliament's wards opposed to urgency or other issues are consenting to this. In the previous government we had expressed our opposition - and our objection had been accepted - that the fields, as they had been established, were too narrow, resulting in high-grade students staying outside higher education and that there should be a correction. We are making this correction. Now, in the course of the discussion in the Committee on Forums, we said that regardless of whether or not the opposition parties vote for these provisions, we are completely open to accept changes in the interests of the educational system and the students. So, in a short time - for technical reasons we are delaying - you will be shared by the legislative improvements. But there is also a proposal that is harmonized and which we have accepted. And I say 'harmonize' because there are other proposals which have an absolute rationale. You know, though, when you have a structured system and you make a change, it can lure a lot of other changes and eventually get you out of context. The proposal is that in the third grade weekly schedule an hour "History of Social Sciences" should be added in place of an hour of New Greek Literature. This replacement was deemed necessary in order to have contact with the social sciences all the students of the Third High School, regardless of the field. This is because at a time when the Greek society faces challenges at an economic and cultural level, we consider that the addition of the "History of Social Sciences" course will contribute to the culture of critical thinking and give opportunities and stimuli of reflection to our young and new a few months or days before the right to vote. Here, let us remind you that the SYRIZA Government intends in a relatively short time to consult integrated proposals on the weekly timetable for all school classes, of course, after having received the relevant recommendations from the relevant bodies and a very extensive consultation has taken place. I also have to tell you - we have told the committee, we are simply saying this here - that these arrangements that we bring are not the most important ones concerning the education system. There may also be some of them. However, they have an urgent nature. The issues that concern are related to large bills that will arise through an extensive consultation, which will take as much time as it takes. I want to clarify that. As I also wish to make it clear that the multi-brand plan, which will be posted to 'DENMARK' and consulted at the beginning of next week, there are more important issues relating to both primary and secondary education and, above all, to the abolition of evaluation, which we and the entire Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss in greater detail. On the question of experimental and standards, the reason for the urgency is that two years ago - to remind those who do not know it, although I imagine that all colleagues in this House know it - all the students who wanted to study in experimental schools - or standards as they then did - were admitted by lot. Over the last two years, we've had students enter with tests. So we were in danger if we left the system, we could have three years in high school and three years in high school all students were introduced by exams. Therefore, it was contrary to our own philosophy, where in experimental schools the student population should be a random sample. And that is why we made the distinction between experimentation and standards. A number of proposals have been made during the debate in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. In the legislative improvements you will see that one of the proposals put forward, we have accepted it, that is to say, in the list of gymnasium standards, also added to the High School of Life in Ioannina at the request of the local society, as found by colleagues from the Co-Police and Anti-Police during the debate in the House's Committee on Education. In view of the fact that the High School of Life in Ioannina meets the requirement of history and the other criteria for selecting a school unit as a model, the Ministry decided to meet the relevant request. You'll see it in the legislative improvements that will be shared. We are also moving towards a third important legislative initiative, the selection of executives, which, to the extent that we wanted it to be implemented at the beginning of the school year, had to be voted on on the dates mentioned earlier. We believe that this is where there is a large section. It was mentioned this morning and by the Prime Minister that, with minor changes, the two-thirds of the conditions and molecules needed for a teacher to understand a place of training staff remain the same. The big change is that there is the vote of the trainees in the interview. We believe that this is a change with which one might agree and one might disagree. However, I must also say here that these changes have an entirely transitional character. Immediately afterwards we will have to open a very large debate on whether the positions of the training staff should have these responsibilities or other responsibilities, if some of them have to be abolished and responsibilities transferred elsewhere. It is a very long debate. However, to the extent that the term of office of certain directors in June or July has expired - I am referring to school directors and primary and secondary school managers - we are bringing this change. Here, we have also made some legislative changes. I'm going to report one of them. In the categories of teachers offering a teaching service, in addition to those serving in environmental education centres, we also include those who have served at counselling stations for young people, in places of environmental education, health import, cultural activities and others that you will see in the legal processes. In any case, I want to assure you - and you have seen it today - that the urgency has been dictated only by those dates. You may, of course, either in this process that we are enlarging today or in any other procedure, have your objections. But you must admit that the educational system is in a very difficult situation and that it has suffered very great cuts, despite the assurances that education and health would be outside the memorandum policies. Too many school units have been closed. We have had too many educational gaps, large gaps in many areas and in the area of special education, which is in a very difficult situation. We must all contribute to restoring the authority of the teacher, who has been brutally affected, and all learning. With this bill we are dealing with - and I am closing with it - only the urgent issues. Immediately afterwards, a very large dialogue will begin. I want to believe that with the contribution of all of us we will be able to have a better outcome. I think that education is an area that can be 'plate' - let me say it like culture - in the very difficult situation that our country is going through and lead to a Greece which, as we all confess, deserves better luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-one students and students and five teachers from the 5th Sparta Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that over the past five years public education has been severely affected and transformed from social good, from an obligation of the state to goods, and the cost has also been largely transferred from the state budget to family shoulders. State funding, as we all know, has declined dramatically, and this has had consequences for students, students, their families, as well as for the provision of the educational project as a whole. The Ministry of Education introduces to discussion the bill we are debating today to regulate only issues of an urgent nature and are essentially of a transitional nature. As the Deputy Minister said earlier, there will be a wide debate on the whole - I would say - on issues relating to public education. As far as high school and education are concerned, I think we all agree that the already legislated system of the new high school has drastically reduced the possibility for young people, for pupils to have access to a wide range of schools and departments of higher education. So we would have the dramatic - let me say - the phenomenon - candidates who would be given high - perhaps even too high - ratings were left out of higher education. There were other reasons. One of these reasons is that there has been a dramatic delay in preparing for the implementation of the third grade of the new high school. There was a lack of even detailed programs and of course also of school manuals, for which the process of writing had not even begun. On the other hand, it was not possible to maintain the current import system this year, because the surprise of the students would be absolute. While they were informed that they would be examined in four lessons, we would have to bring them back to the six - or seven - lesson system, even with a different combination than the one they were preparing for. Therefore, none of this could be done. It was imperative that there should be a change. This change is essential. The bill expands students' choices. They are also given the opportunity to choose a second scientific field, so that the number of departments and schools that can declare to increase, almost double. Thus, three guidance groups and five scientific fields are being formed and the students have two possibilities: the first is the one for which they are already informed, that is to say, to be examined in four courses and to be able to report schools in a single scientific field. However, they are given a second opportunity in this bill and a second opportunity to be examined in a fifth globally studied lesson, which will enable them to choose sections and schools in a second scientific field. Their choices are therefore widened and have much more potential so that students with good performance do not stay outside the higher education schools. Furthermore, it is important that for all the cognitive objects that will be taught next school year in the 3rd grade there are already detailed programs approved by the Institute of Education, earlier or, the Institute of Education Policy today, and of course approved school manuals for the entire range of courses. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] At the same time, with this bill, the degrees of promotion and dismissal in the three grades of high school are fully released from the level of access to higher education. This is a first step towards the release of high school, which we all support and consider necessary, but in practice today is taking a first step towards this release. Another very important step is taken by abolishing the theme bank as a mandatory tool for teachers to choose 50% of the issues. The subjects will now be defined under the exclusive responsibility of the teachers. At the same time, however, the theme bank will continue to exist for any students and teachers who would like to use it as an auxiliary tool. The provision in force until 2013 for the promotion or dismissal of pupils on a general average for all courses of 9,5 shall also be repeated. It is something that existed and is restored to those who have an elementary relationship with school reality, they will know that last year's experience was tragic for the first grade students. This was indirectly recognised by the Ministry of Education itself, which was forced to issue three different alternating circulars each time, which required high school to export the results of the promotion of the first grade students four times. And why, ladies and gentlemen? Because the proportion of pupils initially referred to a review or rejected reached the total, while the usual rates in previous years did not exceed 5%. As far as technical education is concerned: here, ladies and gentlemen, there is an important section. The bill overturns another coup of the Memorandum Governments that took place on that nightmare July 2013, when on a summer day, all of a sudden, without any evaluation, of those who swear to each tone in its name, were made available over two thousand teachers of technical skills belonging to fifty different specialities and at the same time some twenty thousand students were able to continue their studies in the area they had chosen. This bill, reconstitutes the sectors and specialities that have been violently abolished at the time and in conjunction with the now adopted law of the Ministry of Administrative Reform, with which teachers return to schools and their organic positions, enables students to re-evaluate these areas and specialties they would like. As a result of that nightmare summer, there were thousands of children who came mainly from poor families either to abandon public education or to change the sector and choose someone else from either the one who would like to be led to the IEKs and many of them to private IEKs at the known cost of carrying their families. The restoration of the function of technical education and the reinstatement and the right of teachers does not concern themselves alone, and I would say that it concerns not themselves, the right of these thousands of children who have been deprived of the opportunity to acquire a professional qualification or many of them have been forced to leave secondary education. On the serious issue of standards and experimental schools: we all agree that there is a need for schools where educational institutions will be tested, namely timetables and programs, teaching methods, manuals, administrative methods and operating methods. And all this for the purpose, after studying pilots and evaluating them, to spread to the whole education system in the country. This should be the task of experimental schools. Let me stress here that the bill provides that there will also be experimental vocational schools, which to date does not exist, another aspect of the deterioration of the state of technical education itself. Was that so far? The double term "model - experimental" is unscientific. I think we all agree that you cannot try pilot projects if they are not applied to a sample that can be considered representative of the student population. The selection of pupils and students with a system of examinations obviously does not lead to a random sample, so any study and conclusions from this sample cannot be easily disseminated to the whole student population of the country. So in our bill, the concepts 'prototype' and 'experimental' are separated. In addition to nine schools, five high school schools and four high school schools, which, through the amendment made today by the Minister of Education for historical reasons, are described as'standards'. It is clear that teachers who teach in these schools either experimentally or in standards must of course have increased and typically but mainly scientific qualifications and, among other things, educational and teaching experience. According to the previous speakers, the introduction of pupils and pupils to experimental schools cannot be done in any other way, except by drawers. It is the only way that it can ensure that these schools are monitored throughout the school population, so the sample can really be regarded as random and thus representative, so that we do not have this year in all these schoolchildren selected by exams but at least one class chosen by lottery. It is of course noted that each student can be a candidate for a single experimental school unit or for a model. Finally, the provisions of our bill harmonise the procedures for the selection of directors and deputy directors in these schools as well as in this bill for the selection of managers and others. In other words, there was no reason to have a different procedure in these schools. We are reaching the famous issue of the choice of training officials. It is well known that their term of office expires in July of next summer. Therefore, it is urgent - and indeed is a matter that can be classified as urgent - to define the procedure by which new managers, school managers and training managers will be selected. We all know that these executives must have certain qualifications above the elementary level, have scientific and pedagogical training, teaching and administrative experience, but also democratic behaviour, pedagogical perceptions of modern times, ability to organise and synchronize, consult with the other institutions of the educational community, communication skills and so much that many of us will be able to say. These qualifications, which are not measured in some objective way, who can appreciate them? We claim that the most appropriate ones to appreciate and express them are the fellow teachers who are intervening with the current teachers, those who live with them every day and can therefore make this assessment, which in no way can be done during a short interview, as has been done so far by selection councils, whose majority of those who were not even acquainted with them and were trying to make a five-minute, 15-minute interview to form an opinion. It's a human impossible. After all, we are all well aware that this interview was used by previous governments for the selection of the 'days' of the respective authority. For these reasons, the interview procedure is abolished and we give a strong opinion and a strong role and a reason for the teachers themselves, both in the school club of teachers for the selection of their director and in the director of the school units for the selection of the training director of their region. Of course a number of conditions are laid down in the bill that we will discuss in the articles, such as a certain educational and teaching experience, and the objective, scientific, experience criteria covering the 2/3 of the overall range of ratings, while the remaining 1/3 of mobilisation will result from the opinion of teachers in the ways we said earlier and which will be reflected by secret ballot, either in the associations of teachers or in the directors of the school units. It is also foreseen that a candidate who does not collect at least 20% of the preference of the selectors will be excluded from the further process, considering that by such a low percentage he does not even in the minds of accepting the educational community. In addition, for there to be an element of the validity of the voting procedure, at least a majority of the voting rights are required, and the draft law sets this figure at 65%. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, the school unit has a dominant role to play in the assessment, operation and management of the school unit. Teachers know better than anyone the problems, the specificities of each school unit and are the most appropriate to choose forms, methods and measures, so that we can have interventions in line with these needs. With the authoritarianism that has been imposed on school life in recent years by means of a preliminary evaluation, it is absolutely essential to restore democracy in schools. The answer to all those who are trying to go through the proposal on the participation of teachers in the selection process can only be that of extending democracy in schools. In the Memorandum years, teachers were dispersed, swept away, characterized by a variety of adjectives, "incompetent, lazy" and many other things you know. It was an attempt to terrorize teachers, to manipulate and submit to the Memorandumary Policies. Today the same nostalgics of these anti-educational measures continue in the same slandering logic and accuse teachers of being unable to choose, even in 1/3, the managers of their school units. They're accused of conciliation, of factorism. All of these pretend to be ignorant of the orgy of the party and of the clientelite logic that took place on the appointed selection boards, where their appointed members were chosen each time either from the Ministry of Education or from the regional training directors and those who have basic knowledge of this process know very well how the candidates for school units and educational directors were selected, and even to the attendants of Jerusalem, were known beforehand who will become director and what school. It would be interesting for all of us to explain that university teachers are considered capable of choosing the administrations of universities, and for the same role, even in 1/3 only, the teachers of the other grades are considered incompetent. The abolition of the interview and the initiative to talk to teachers themselves is the best proof that our Government trusts them and considers them worthy of the serious role they have undertaken to deal with most of our children's time. We could, ladies and gentlemen, not change anything, the Minister should change the composition of the service councils, in the position of members appointed by the Ministry to place SYRIZA officials and choose our own people, our own children, as you and gentlemen have done for so many years. We don't do that, just because we're not like you. That is why the Greek people have preferred us to change them, and that is what we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u126	In order to obtain some time, the letters from all the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Groups are here. I therefore tell you, without reading them, that the parties have nominated Parliamentary Representatives: Mr. Petrakos from SYRIZA, Mr. Mitsotakis from New Democracy, Mr. Papas from Golden Dawn, Mrs.Lyberakis from Potami, Mr. Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Mavraganis from the Independent Greeks and Mr. Cremastinos from PASOK. The special speakers, except Mr Baxvanakis, who already spoke, are. From New Democracy Mr. Fortsakis, from the Golden Dawn, Mrs. Despina Sveroni, from Potami, Mrs. Antonakou Stavrou, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Synthrakis Emmanouil, from the Independent Greeks, from Stavrou Xulidou and from PASOK or Eve Christophilopoulos. I've made a rough sum. In view of the special speakers, the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Venizelos, who has informed us that he wants to speak, and the speakers who have been designated, if we go together, at 18: 00 this afternoon we will be done for today. So, in turn, ours is at 18:00 to finish the meeting. I only request your permission because, with the permission of the House, Mr Theocharis will be absent on Tuesday, at the end of some of the speakers, if you approve, to give him the floor for six minutes. I mean, instead of 18: 00 to finish at 18: 05. I repeat that this is because he won't be here on Tuesday. Do you object to Mr. Theochari?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u127	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u129	Here you go, Mr. Petrako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I think we need to take care, as we have said, to ensure that the debate is completed on Tuesday, because it is urgent to take FEK in good time. So it won't go beyond 20:00 at night. I'd see a chance to go by 20:00 today. What concerns us and the government is to end in time on Tuesday. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u131	I understand what you said, Mr. Petrako. I just told you what's there right now. Mr Balafas is in charge of consulting with all the parliamentary representatives of all the parties, and for what you have said today, perhaps, and also the procedure on Tuesday. I would remind you that there are also two waivers of immunity, which unfortunately cannot go next week, as Mrs Charalapidou explained to us, in order to prepare the programme. Earlier than 18:00 this afternoon there'll be an answer for what you said. So we're moving on properly. I invite Mr. Fortsakis to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering an extremely important bill, which will have a decisive impact on the lives of our schools. I will briefly express a few thoughts on the general principles governing this initiative by the Ministry and then go into the general principles of the bill's funds. This bill is part of a broader political planning, which lies in the degradation of all control systems in education, administration and justice. I am referring to the laws of Katrugalo and Paradise, which, with the basic principles that inspire them, are very close to today's bill. The general principles governing today's bill what are they? First of all, the concept of excellence is definitely excruciating - we have said so many times - which we really regard as a disease that our students should not know. An equation down is dynamically attempted, because it is considered that anything that differs must be levelled. But equality is equal opportunities, it is not equal to arrival. If we have weak start-ups, we must help them to come to that situation, where they can compete on equal terms with the others, but not deport those who stand out. Trade unions are significantly strengthened, mutual interests are supported and partitioning is restored. The fragmentary nature of the provisions shows that all these arrangements come without a comprehensive study of the issue and without any assessed, measured results of the action, which has so far taken place in this area. For the public debate that has not taken place, a great deal has already been said. I am simply expressing the important complaint, Minister, that this public debate should have taken place in such an important area, such as the area of education. The invocation of urgent arrangements to avoid public dialogue is not enough for me. Also important are changes in the area of education, when a significant consensus has been obtained, and I would remind you that the previous regulation, at least for higher education institutions, has received a broad consensus. This consensus was not the type that the Prime Minister in the morning invoked, namely that he was allegedly obeying mortars of the Memorandum type. It was a consensus of common sense that had been reached after considerable difficulties had been overcome and brought close political forces to them very differently. The first chapter of the draft law, as far as its general principles are concerned, essentially regulates the restructuring of educational programmes and we have lists of hours of different courses. As the Minister will know, we have received a lot of complaints from all, almost all, the teachers. Biologists, computers, physicists, chemists, politicians, sociologists, even the Panteion University, complain that their courses are being neglected, for the benefit of others. I'm not in a position to know if it should be two hours of physics and a chemistry or three hours of biology and two of politics. What I know and what I understand is that these issues cannot be matters that are dealt with in detail in the law. Because the legislator is not in a position to know the details of the training programs. I shall make a proposal - because any criticism I make today, let me accompany it, and from one proposal, if we are not negative, to be positive in the statement of speech - and my criticism, therefore, is that Parliament has no point in getting involved in two hours of Physics and a Chemistry or three Gymnastics and a Religious one. What matters is that the House put in a general framework of directions and then there should be a scientific body, who will listen to and consider the various issues of interest to students, see what their needs are and define the curriculum, not based on the needs of teachers' unions and unions. We don't care about teachers in schools. We're interested in our children. And our children need to have lessons in the way they are recorded from a serious analysis and study. At this point I stress that I often hear about autonomy - and I have heard the previous rapporteur - which we have to recognise in schools, in high school and in high school, because we also recognise it in universities. To recognise autonomy, not to choose those who will be commanded - and then explain why - but to recognise, if you wish, autonomy to at least some extent, for the lessons they teach, for the determination of their material. In other words, in my view, the legislature should define the general principles, the special scientific body should set out the detailed programmes and allow for a margin of adjustment in schools, which, according to their tradition, will have their specific potential, both in terms of teachers and students, to adapt these programmes and follow or strengthen their traditions or choices. So we should open up a way to get out of the one- and only-one-stop shop, with a programme that is implemented everywhere, as the House has decided in its details, and which, in the end, leads children, on the basis of the one-stop book, to our great disaster, that is, to memorisation. This is a problem that "hots" literally the brains of our children, because it "stores" them and sends them to the University, now exhausting any possibility to develop critical thought. I would like here to express for the courses only one complaint, which no institution has made to us. It is that Ancient Greeks have been expelled from the general education program and it is a pity. It is a pity that the Ancient Greeks should be completely abandoned and that we cannot include them in the programme of general studies. Minister, I appeal to you to see this issue so that the Ancient Greeks can get back into the program. Until this year, they were taught on the basis of a circular which Mrs Giannakou had published years ago. For the first chapter, I will close by saying that it is impossible for our education and our schools to function without an assessment. Because 1/3 of our civil servants are our teachers, our teachers, and it is impossible to allow such a large number of people to operate in such an important system, such as the education system, without the evaluation being decisive. And this reflection leads us to the second chapter of the bill, which refers to experimental and standard schools. We have already heard a lot about this. We have heard the arguments in favour and the arguments against. I will first say that the concept of excellence in the way we speak about it, I fear that it has not been understood in the same way by those who support the abolition of standards and by those who support their preservation. Excellency does not mean that we entangle, gather in a space the students who have 18/20 and 19/20 or 20/20 and put them all together to be the perfect ones on their own. It means that we make a selection of students on the basis of not their excellence, not their performance but their skills, and that these skills, when we allow them to enter a model school, we try to highlight them so that we can get the best these students have in them. I mean, just to say, let's go to an example that everyone will understand. If we had a child with special talent on the piano, will we send it to teach with the children who don't know music, because we want to have in the same class the exquisite and the non-excellent? A child with such a skill will help him to go to a school that is adapted to his needs so that he can highlight his talents. Mutatis mutandis the same applies to all sectors. And I would stress that in standards - if you see - their average score, it's not 18,19 and 20. It's 14 or 15. The children who are in the standards are children with competence, which the standards can show. Nothing more. In that sense, we are talking about excellence. So there is no confusion in the way that we want the excellent people scattered throughout the school, because this is not affected by the existence of the standards. Because it often sounds like what experimentation we will do if the sample is not random, I respond with two thoughts. The first thought is that the sample is not random when we mix everyone in the sample. Because even the so-called random sample must refer to a person who has a unity. So it does not hurt to have a choice at the base even if we want to have experimental schools. Because experimentation must be made on children who have a level. For those children who have difficulties, there will be another experimentation at another level. All children have their worth. And a child who is not distinguished either in mathematics or in Ancient or Physics does not mean that he lacks somewhere, because he can be distinguished in another industry, in the technical issues or in the skills he has to do with his hands, in art. So that's not negative. However, each sector must be treated according to its own needs. I do not think that the concept of standard excludes the concept of experimental. We could, Minister, if you insist on discrimination, keep the standards - and not only the four that you have kept - and of course the fifth that has been excluded from living in Ioannina, because not only is this school for no reason excluded, but we also have no standard in the province, we have only in Athens, so it is also injustice - and to extend them, as the Diamantopoulou Act had done. That is, to predict that they will function standards in all the counties. And we could also have experimental schools, which could be schools, with more experimental applications and pilot projects. So I don't see why one hurts the other. I think it is important, too, to emphasise the choices made in this chapter that it is extremely unfortunate that the director of standards is chosen in the way that the law provides. Because when they are placed in the standard of directors who are not in line with their mentality with the model culture, obviously their address will harm the functioning of the standard. It is very important for the standards to maintain the selection of directors after a process of merit. It is important that there should be an assessment of the teachers and that there should be a choice according to a special and worthwhile process. And of course it is important that there should also be the choice of students. But over and above the students, the manager and the teachers are important. I note that the disappearance of standards will lead to the fatality of those children who belong to economically weaker families being able to teach as they deserve, while those who have the means will turn to private education. It's really a shame. I propose at this point that we increase standards, that we have a model by law, that we maintain the choice of managers and staff and students and that we create a set of purely experimental ones at the same time. Third chapter, the choice of school unit managers. It is a global original to instruct teachers and teachers to elect those who will direct them. Because everyone understands that it is human to promote ideas and small interests, which have nothing to do with education. Our Constitution provides for self-government for universities and self-government means that universities are run by institutions that choose themselves, of course always on the basis of the framework defined by the legislature but do not forget that, not only because it says in the Constitution but also because the essence of things imposes it, teachers, teachers in high school cannot choose their own, because they cannot have self-government. Nor can such a system be desirable. We do not want to come to trading systems, we do not want to come to trade-driven systems or party hugs. We have seen what has happened with the thirteen regional directors and we understand that the government understands the choice of directors. I'm afraid the same and worse we'll see in schools. And I stress that the choice of school managers will determine the selection of training directors, so we will have a chain. And if you note what has happened with the regional directors you will have a full picture. This morning I heard the Prime Minister, who said that the government is struggling to give credit for compliance with the laws. We understood that very well when we saw what he was doing with the regional directors. He chose those who had more than anyone else to resist the application of the laws. They are precisely the ones who blocked the implementation of the laws when they had to implement the laws and were rewarded by becoming regional managers. So here is what the merchandise is for keeping legality. To be honest - I do not like chewed words - and in the past the system was not satisfactory. The choices were made many times with systems that were not the best. We have no difficulty in admitting it. We are proposing here, Minister, to leave these systems and to set up an annex to the National School of Public Administration or a new school, to produce teaching staff, that is to say, what is being done in all the civilized states of the world and to have a process of atrocities, people who have escaped from the parties, who have talents, have been created, judged and can offer their services without belonging to anyone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In France, for example, we often have people who belong to a school in the south and leave and go to the north. Mobility between these people must also be opened up. As time is over - in one minute I will have finished, Mr President - only two words on an issue which is very much discussed, namely the issue of eternal students. It is not the question of whether eternal students are charged or not with university. I say eternal students, even though I don't like the term and forgive me for using it for ease of communication. Why don't we want the eternal students? Because there is a matter of substance. Studies must be completed within a specific timeframe. I've said it before, you can't start medical in 1990 with the glass injections and finish it in 2015, with injections made in completely different ways. I'm saying it a little anecdotes to figure it out. You cannot start legally in 1990 and finish the 2015 that all the laws have changed. Studies should take place within a period of four to six years, as is the case throughout the world, with special prolongation for workers and patients. Because I heard the Prime Minister this morning say that we are giving the opportunity to those who have not been able to finish, to finish, who have difficulty having the opportunity to interrupt his studies and to repeat them when he is able to do so, and the state should help the economically weaker people to get through with their studies. At this point I propose that - since the so-called centuries-olds in 95% are neither concerned nor going to come back, while the universities are boring them and appearing abroad with numbers which are fantastic and which harm them, because they show them to have false statements and images - to give them the opportunity to return, to return, to give them a three-month declaration of return, to update their curriculum of study by the relevant school and to complete their studies in the time when their schools will take care of them. It's not the punishment for the children who've left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Fortsakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u134	In three seconds' time, Mr President. Would it be really interesting to make a calculation and to see how many of the previous ones, from the current governments, from Parliament, have taken their diplomas at four, five or six years and those who were delayed and taken to eight and ten, what have they done the years left in the university? Did they do what we saw him do and the student who smashed us with the trash in the head at the University of Athens? Is that the kind of person we want to promote later in politics? Is that what we've promoted up to now? I urge everyone to do this on their own and to reach its conclusions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the regulation of Article 29 for the Armed Forces and the Security Body, we find it positive and consider it correct. In short, many steps back, balance down, fragmentation and unfortunately total lack of plan for the future. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u135	Before I give the floor to Mrs Sveroni-Hondonasius, I will read out the list for you to know your turn. When the Special Buyers are finished, the speakers and so on are here. I am not yet a speaker from the Communist Party and Mr. Kokkalis has asked to go Tuesday - Gregorakos, Vakis, Costas Karamanlis and Theocharis. Mrs Sveroni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. In this morning, the Prime Minister, in this Chamber, spoke about democracy, about the democracy that we all have to preserve in our common home called Europe and said that if some people try a crime at the place of democracy, in Greece, in Europe - perhaps it also meant - they will be accountable. There is a lot of talk of democracy, ladies and gentlemen. But democracy means responsibility. Everyone has to understand that democracy is based on it, it is 'in my own part', as Socrates said. Ladies and gentlemen, we ourselves undermine Socrates' democracy 'in my own part'. And you know why? Because we have a cultural crisis. We have no education and we have not yet made it clear what education is and what education is. Other education and education. There is, of course, a semantic affinity, but it is something completely separate. Education is the organized process through which the coordinate state offers the educational goods to its children and the purpose of education is to provide education. Education is, according to Plato, the maximum lesson in which "the saying is not taught in any way as other lessons". It is the lesson, that is, ladies and gentlemen, which is not taught. Modern philosophers fail to give the definition of education. They define the trained only man. And trained is only the cultivated one, the one whose character, thought, sensitivity have been refined by knowledge, not by knowledge, that is, by mind, morality, good, aesthetics, fine and the achievements of culture. The man of education, ladies and gentlemen, is responsible, he is the man who is a democratic life. Now the problem of education - because, to get to education, the supplies are getting them from education - starts from kindergarten and continues to university. Education should be aimed at education, not the labour market. In other words, we in our children must exercise their soul and spirit in order to gain knowledge. A great teacher, Cryaras, said - not just now - that we are experiencing the last need to correct education. I am telling you this because it is not just now that we say that the measures for education are urgent. A people are being promoted, according to Cryara, when they have advanced education, when they have a vision. The materialism killed the vision. And materialism, ladies and gentlemen, is taught by parents and teachers. As far as education is concerned, it is not even a matter of the last decade, 15 years or 30 years but goes far behind. I won't take you for a century, but close to sixty years back. In 1947, another great teacher, Alexander Delmuzos, argued that for education there was a need for university cooperation with the state to have a suprapartmental education policy. As long as the state said Delmuzos - in 1947, please! - it appears - that the government - as a party, fate will perpetuate the same situation. In order to implement this change, that is, over-party policy, we need objectivity and - listen to what this democrat, the municipalist - cruelty and consistency together. But this can be done by a supra-party educational policy, where, ladies and gentlemen, each party will tie itself up with its own hands. I mean, he'll be committed so he can't move the finger to the next government. For such a policy of supra-partyism, there is at all levels of education in both its organization and its substance, key aspects of supra-party and unambiguous, but which are necessary. It is self-evident that without them it is impossible to establish genuine education. Delmuzos says that. It's a copy of what I'm telling you. Whether on the right or on the left he wants to be, he says, if this super-party policy does not exist, we cannot go forward. It is a precondition that each party is obliged to adopt, if it wants to serve the whole nation, that is to say the whole of the nation. Without suprapartmental education policy, the university problem will admit within a vicious circle. In this vicious circle, Professor, the students will accept the precursors and garbage and they will never find the right solution. So, since 1947, it has been a common supra-party policy towards all parties, beyond their opposition, to stop the educational problem becoming a football among the parties and the vacancies of ignorant people who happen to run the Ministry of Education. It was an unholy game with the most sacred case of the nation. With who? This education and education, which on the back is tested an endless ruptured ruptured. You make laws, you think they're the best, the next government comes in and says they weren't. You theorize them and the others are demonizing them. And the one who pays for it is the sovereign according to the other Greek people and the children of this sovereign Greek people. And in any case, the ones who have and the occupants go to private schools. But the other guy, the laurel? What's he gonna do? Where's he going? In other words, our tombs should always be from certain specific families of the possessors and occupants, those who can really study, while others will be what? Will they be third-class citizens? With endless changes in education, it never deprives itself. That's what Delmuzus said in 1947. Papanoutsos - disciple of Delmuzu - in 1956, also emphasizes an absolute and urgent need for education in a purely national policy. Because only in this way and economically and spiritually will this place be rectified. Delmuzos also said something else - in 1947, I stress - that we must keep the school away from the fanaticism of the fanatics of the fanatics, that is, of the parties and become an apostle to this idea. In a 1984 edition, his disciple Papanoutsos said: "Teacher, you did not live to see the rises and fallouts of our educational policy, which continued at the same pace" - and continue until now, I say. That's what Papanoucho said. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, how has our state trained the modern Greek? He has trained him to admire the ancient Greeks, without knowing and understanding them, because that is how they suit him. At the same time, however, while admiring those who do not understand, he takes care of the appointment of his unworthy usually child, at the expense of the worthy person, who does not have the same acquaintances and hates and undermines anyone who is next to him. I told you this because we all start talking about education, we all say that we are giving a special role and a special weight to what is called education, but without having distinguished what is education, what is culture and what is education, and we all feel that we are interested in the good of this place, for the good of youth, for the good of our children, who will be tomorrow's MPs, tomorrow's feasts of this country. But there is no consensus at all. Is that something that separates us? That we are ideologically different, is that why we cannot find them on this subject called education at least, on this subject called education? And now comes a multi-legislative bill, and the Minister says that this bill is urgent, because we have to catch up with the children. We need to catch up with the kids before they run tests, because they would compete in more or less lessons. Two-three days ago, one night in this Chamber, I told you about the felony and the immunization achieved in January 1982 with the abolition of the multi-tongue system, which was in place for the monotony. And then he came in for the children. We don't want to get rid of the kids. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to have proper education, we will have children too. So, how's the kids going abroad? What's that for? Is that where the letters are? Here in Greece, how do we get them? Instead of bringing education up, do we get it down? And we think what? That this is a democracy? Let me say, Minister, that this is not a democracy but a Bolshevikism. Equality downwards means bolshevikism. Towards the law, ladies and gentlemen, we are equal, but we are not the same. Other abilities you have, others have my child, others have the child of Roma, the Greek, the north-east, the south-east, my forgiveness. But even if we go to a room, even as you want to do with the abolition of pilot schools, is there no apocalyptic? Isn't there a first, second, third student? Is everyone equal? Is it ever possible to teach such culture in this Chamber in 2015? There are a lot of issues in the polynoma. And because, Minister, I believe that what you say about democracy - and I am not referring personally to you as Minister but to the government - believe them. You know, we believe you and we believe them. Only we want to bring in and contribute. Because I have said before that the government and the other one are temporary. They are temporary in the sense that no one is eternal. More big parties have come through that have become small. There were other parties taking on that the river doesn't come back. The river not only turned back but drained. No one finally knows what his tomorrow is. But unfortunately, what we are doing today is putting their seal on and defining all the next generations. So we have to think about them too, too. You know, here we are not only talking about situations that are current now, as if we were to hire the cleaners that were fired - and for which we also voted in favour - or certain specific teachers. Here we are supposed to lay the foundations if we really want to say that we are starting and doing something different. But we need to see with a horizon if not fifty years, at least twenty years, to say that we did something. Is it possible every three and a little experiment? I absolutely believe that you have pure and good intentions. But why did the previous guys want to commit crimes against the youth of my country? I want to believe there's no politician who's consciously wanting to commit crime. Everyone, but everyone's struggling for the good. So since we agree on something - regardless of whether we disagree with everything else - that is, what we are interested in is our education, they are our children, they are their education, we are at least given the opportunity and the opportunity to sit on a table. And you know, I'm not just talking about political parties, but about teachers, about university bodies. And indeed, there is a dialogue. And all that I have read to you and other things that exist from teachers enlightened, who have left this futile world, may actually make us learn. I have seen that, while history is finally events that are repeated and usually repeated as a tragedy, as a comedy, we are still making the same mistakes and mistakes. But mistakes made at the expense of education are mistakes which are tragic. And it's so tragic that we can't see it today. But we see the tragedy, the felony of our action, when it is done at the expense of education. I always call it 'count', no matter whether there is a fraud. I can't believe there's a douche. It can be done by negligence, but it's a felony at the expense of education and we're seeing it over time. I should like to end, Mr President, by saying this: I have taken it from Mr Tasoula in New Democracy. It is an excerpt from Nikos Kazantzakis' travel from England and I would like to read it to you. Of course, other things Mr Tassoulus and I have underlined this. It's the difference we talked about. We are equal to Mr Tashula and not the same, regardless of whether we like it even the same things. So, Kazantzakis says at some point: "They come here" - he talks about colleges, you know, England - "the chosen young people of Great Britain to get what? Balanced physical, spiritual, mental nudity of the good man. Nothing else. Then, if they want, they continue special studies, studying elsewhere, in universities, in legal schools, in polytechnics, in hospitals." He also says: "How is it possible for Mosley to announce, to be a gentleman and not to know ancient Greek?" You know, I'm telling you, because Greek education was the signal placed in all the advanced states and it's even more tragic when we finally reach the point, for the sake of the convenience of our youth as a whole, and I don't know what else, to abolish, as Mr. Fortsakis said, or to reduce the ancient Greek, our language, from our own Greek schools. So should we definitely go to England, America, to foreign universities, to meet scientists and knowledgeers of the ancient Greek spirit? I want to believe that we will think about it better, and we will all be uprooted together, because all of us are concerned with what is called Greek education and Greek education, so that we can give our children what they really deserve. As far as the articles are concerned, Mr President, I will speak when their time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much. The reason for this is the Special Rapporteur from the Potami, Mr. Crossula Antonaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all countries recognise their educational system as a basic lever for the creation, development and formation of human capital. All the countries that want to be serious, the question of education is centrally treated, nationally, with the greatest possible consensus and consultation. You do the exact opposite. We do not consent to this process. Education is a very serious matter for us to discuss it through express procedures, without even having preceeded a genuine and sincere debate within the parliamentary process. First of all, you should set an example of worthyness, worthyness, of education that has nothing to do with the party state. You have brought the draft law in the form of an emergency, without dialogue, without genuine consultation. Why? The left, Mr Minister, has never feared real dialogue. Why are you avoiding him? As far as this draft law is concerned, you are once again changing the structure of the school education programmes as a matter of urgency. We were expecting greater sensitivity than you in this particular matter. Especially you, who know that it is the third-largest draft law within three years, which changes the educational programmes of high school. Are you thinking about their students? Do you not know that changes in this age, even institutional, have an impact on their daily lives? We really want you to explain the reasoning of this change. Which working party took over? On what criteria and what study? Which consultation did you consult and which bodies did you speak to? Because as we saw, they were all confused. You're reducing the level of promotion in the next class. I mean, you tell the kids to try less. In other words, you want to apply the model 'you don't get bored'. Are your children going through order without learning anything or going through it and getting some knowledge? You are abolishing the system of evaluation of schools and teachers, when today there is not a single advanced country in the world without such a system. In fact, your main criterion is the selection of the new regional training directors you appointed is their party identity. And that's not right. The Prime Minister admitted it a while ago. We welcome the Prime Minister's honest attitude to change in this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u139	Mrs. Antonaku, excuse me a minute. I would ask either Mr. Kourakis or the Minister to be notified, one of them to come in. When speaking to a Member, he must address the Government. It does not address empty chairs. Keep going and I hope he'll be here in a couple of minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u140	Promote the selection of directors. Is the selection of managers with the new system urgent? You choose them on the basis of their trade union performance, thereby giving ground to customer relations and adequacy again. One wonders what your criterion is! Is that your vision, the coexistence with the unionists in education? Expand, as you did in school advisors, so that you do not upset the schools within the full - time examinations. You're retiring the thing bank in high school. In other words, you are putting an end to an institution before it is even assessed over time. On what basis? Do you not like the good practices that apply all the other modern European states? By abolishing this, you remove the unique basic mechanism to monitor the coverage of course material in all schools in the territory. You are effectively and typically abolishing the standards of schools, the most successful institution, in the form of urgency. Let us do it next year, as both the Prime Minister and the Minister have said in the programming statements. Why are you in such a hurry? Don't you know that anyone who's raped stumbles and usually fails? Of course, the bad thing is that school standards introduce concepts such as evaluation and excellence. Is that excellence a reciprocity? Since when? And here I'm going to do a parentheses. Because my constituency is Piraeus, a few months ago we were lucky to award the children of the Xannio Standard Experimental School of Piraeus. Eighteen Greek students along with their teachers came second to the global competition organized by NASA and MIT. And that is something that we all have to keep in here for the quality provided in these schools. All you will achieve - and we are telling you sincerely - the abolition of pilot schools is that you will help private schools. Repeat as an emergency the unprecedented world institution of the eternal student. Is that really the country's so important problem right now? Ladies and gentlemen, the education of tomorrow's citizens must not be treated as a spoil of the respective government. Do you want a minor effort education, an education without evaluation, an education of trade unionists, a education of the party tube? You, gentlemen, are as you say, the government of national salvation, the government which is negotiating hard, the government that honours what you promised the Greek people, tell us how much you have done so far, from what you promised the Greek people in your planning statements. And we'll remind you of a few. You promised that you would not bring legal action. You brought them in. You promised that you would not bring draft laws in the form of urgency and urgency. Finally, to date, as many draft laws as you have brought, only as urgent and urgent are coming. You have promised cooperation, dialogue and consensus on education, and you are doing exactly the opposite today. In your promises, it's all good, but in the results, there's a problem. And that is certainly a problem for political education too. We as a Potami, because we respect education, because we believe that a country's future is based mainly on its education, we tell you that only if we upgrade our education, we can change the current situation of those we are experiencing today. So to conquer the time it comes, we must invest in education and culture. In order to stay people in a society with cohesion and solidarity, we must invest in our culture. To win tomorrow, we need to invest in education, education in its most extensive sense, education that trains and specializes, gaining a direct connection with the market and the needs of times. Such drafts of legislation of this form and of this content cannot come to Parliament in the form of urgency. It does not honor the country or you as a government or honor any of us. We can only do this if we all work together. And here we expect the Prime Minister's commitment that issues such as the selection of directors and evaluation will be discussed thoroughly in the next few years. Because we respect Parliament's institution, we condemn this urgent procedure and we are negative in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too. I would like to inform you that the Minister of Education has asked for the floor, as he has the right to the Rules of Procedure, but he has accepted my request to conclude the speeches of the rapporteurs and of the special speakers and then to give him the floor. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u143	I'm sorry, Mr. Synonymous, to interrupt you. I'll add the time. I'd like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, forty-three students and students and five teachers from the 3rd Eleftherios Cordeliou School of Thessaloniki and the Municipal School of Geranios Rethymno. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr. Syncis. You can go on and I'll add the time to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u144	For the Communist Party of Greece, the specific bill we are discussing does not touch to the minimum deep class and reactionary laws - n. Question No 41, by Mr Arvanitopoulos on the new high school and n. 3966, the Diamantopoulou Act on standards of experimental schools, which established the elitist institution of standards, poorly defined excellence - and, much more, it does not abolish them, although this request was the front of the struggles of the trade union movement, teachers, parents and students in the previous period. These struggles have been at the forefront of the previous governments, taking advantage of the unacceptable and repressive act of the legislative content of 2811/2000, which criminalises student struggles, as well as all those penalizing provisions, which relate to the replacement of the hours due to confiscation to terrorize and bend the students' racing minds, while thousands of teaching hours are lost every day from the shortages of teachers and even in courses of guidance. Who does not remember directors - fortunately a weak minority -, police, prosecutors, angered parents, who have been placed in an orderly service to deal with the "internal enemy". We have tabled a specific amendment to abolish the act of legislation and we invite you to accept it. But with this draft law you are amending some of the provisions of the n. The Court ruled as follows: 3966. Effort - let us express - to create impressions with the abolition of the themes bank, the degree of promotion, the reintegration of teachers and the re-registration of so-called eternal students, who simply run a number of acute angles, and in fact ensure that the new school's anti-education policy, the European Union's strategy and the OECD is continued for the next few years. We, as a Communist Party of Greece, will vote for these specific provisions, because they were rightfully put at the forefront of the movement that they put on the table as direct tops of the bank and the way of access, measures that drove thousands of students out of high school, so that they could read the legacy of early training and apprenticeship from their fifteen years. But at the same time, that movement claimed the total abolition of the law. We therefore note the fragmentation of these measures, since the substance of the law is not affected. This is a high school, therefore, even more classic, which, of course, is not abolished but remains. It was never a request for educational parents and students to add a selection course for the pan-Hellenic exams, after all, changes that everyone is tired of seeing every time a government changes. It also reorientates scientific fields with guidance groups, always in the logic of n. In the same way, there is no doubt that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work, and that it is in the interests of the health and safety of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work, and that it is in the interests of the health and safety of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work, and that it is in the interests of the health and safety of workers from the workplace. That is why we are, of course, voting against this particular article. Thus, this law, 4186, does not abrogate the'market school', the school leak, the job wandering. The true intention of the European Union and of the coexistence, after accepting the European Union, is to clear up the landscape and to lay rules on who will go through higher education and who, on what terms and with what tools the children of the people's family will draw up. They are themselves, who, on the one hand, legislate on education and, on the other, legislate on the abolition of collective agreements and professional rights. That is why the people's family and the new generation must not be ticked with a bill - a fireworksman of the government and the total abolition of everything that had been proposed in the previous period. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in the field of social security and social security. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are actually bypassing the essentials, citing their debate over two years, as you said, Mr Kourakis. You confessed to the initial discussion of the draft bill, in the same way as the government, the implementation of the Thessaloniki programme in depth not two years but four years. So, here too, which is two years in depth, it is likely that it will be four years and will be finally referred to the good news. So when? If the economy recovers - that is what you say to us - or when the Commission permits it. In fact, you want at the present stage to avoid another conflict, the one with teachers, parents and students. You yourself, Mr Kourakis, admitted in the debate on the principle of the draft law in the Committee on Educational Affairs that the aim is free access to universities. This is a misunderstanding, because free access, according to your proposal - although you have many, the truth is - and the way in which we enter universities may arise, for example, after the first half of the year, so that we can get rid of the overwhelming majority of students, as we do today. It is one of the European Union's alternative models. But avoid the debate about what school we want or even - even for the examination and for another reason. During the debate on the principle and the dialogue you had with Mr Stylion, the representative of the New Democracy, you supported the New Democracy's positions, which are the direction of the European Union, as a requirement for industrialists and OECD, for a massive shift in training and Lifelong Learning with over 70% of the school population. He's in the Minutes. I think I don't have to read it. But it's exactly what I told you a moment ago. So, in short, you are moving in the same strategy as Arsenis, Diamantopoulou, Arvanitopoulos, who wants more children in early training, to the standards of the European Union. In the PES, the sectors and specialities that have been abolished, the teachers who have been made available - and correctly - and we shall vote on it. At the same time, however, there are thousands of vacancies of teachers, all of the articles of Law 4186 regulating apprenticeships in the fourth year of PCA and promoting so-called non-formal education: TEC, IEK, lifelong learning centres and others. And while electorally announcing the abolition of vocational training schools, the promises you made to the Board of Directors of OLEME, it did not take three months and you launched three CECs belonging to non-formal education. Let me point out, however, that at the same time as you are talking about restoring the skills, the EPPC of the Ministry of Tourism, which has been operating for many decades as a secondary vocational school, not only this but also in many other areas of the country and are mainly studying workers, children of poor, popular families. Considering that these children are unable to go to private schools of tourism, which in recent years have been multiplying, the bill does not prevent this industry from giving schoolchildren a gift. Consequently, we invite you not to close this EPC of the Ministry of Tourism. We know that scholarships have been abolished and that students' rights and needs have been severely cut off to ensure free food and housing and we are definitely opposed to the abolition of these schools. We also have this year's ESDP graduates who were forced to change sector and speciality due to the application of Law 4186. They are now senior and prepare for the pan-Hellenic, introductory exams to the tertiary and claim a post. The problem is that with the existing legislative framework, none of the graduates can have access to the TEI schools corresponding to the declining health and welfare sectors and applied arts. So we are tabling a specific amendment to you because it is necessary to restore this injustice to the detriment of graduates. The reintroduction of sectors and specialties, a request unnecessarily negotiated by the trade union movement, does not call into question the fact that a strategy that the ESDP wants to be the schools for children of a lower god, schools for early separation of pupils from the age of 15, for on-call training, especially for the needs of capital, a cheap, flexible workforce. This strategy cannot relieve teachers of stress on job insecurity. As long as students choose specialty and form areas - specialties on the basis of what the market demands, based on the changing needs of the capitalist economy at the same time, and at the same time, formal education is gradually replaced, that is, school, from non-formal, that is to say, the falsification and informal, the labour market, the schools, the organic positions of teachers will be in the air anyway. A great deal is mentioned in this draft law, such as the formulation of the curriculum and that each sector and specificity are taken into account, provided that there are relevant professional contours certified by the EEAA in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 of Law 3961. Invite the n. 3369, the framework law on lifelong learning, which explicitly states that employers' associations will also be involved in the formation of occupational profiles. Detailed programmes, curricula, sectors and specialities will be reassessed, evaluated and, if appropriate, renewed - I say - in line with the needs of enterprises. There are, indeed, a lot of what this bill says in it. But let me refer to paragraph 5 of Article 6 before I go to standards and experimental experiments. We are impressed by the fact that this paragraph exists. In fact, we know that you know that the OEM Board of Directors has asked for this paragraph to be withdrawn because it overturns - particularly the second paragraph - standing principles and procedures for labour change, the placement of teachers in the event of the abolition of an individual school. The first subparagraph of the relevant paragraph, in our view and in the opinion of the OME, needs nothing, because the teachers of the abolished NGAA have already been placed on the basis of Article 10(6) of Law 4283 and, in our view, paragraph 6 of Article 10 of Law 4283 is not intentionally re-examined in the first subparagraph. For what? What does that mean? Is there anything to cover up? In our view it is unacceptable and likely to mark a photographic provision. You tell us. The teachers of the ESDP were placed in accordance with the standard legislation and practice that is acceptable, as I told you by OME. When a whole education structure is abolished, teachers from these schools are part of the schools of the new structure that replaced the previous or later. For example, when the TEL structure was abolished, teachers joined the TEIs, TEIs in the PESs, PESs in the PESs. These teachers are thought to have been placed in the new school since the date of organic placement in the previous school on the basis of antiquity. The second subparagraph of paragraph 5 of the bill, however, is quite different, because it refers to the fact that a single school is being abolished rather than a whole structure. In this case, therefore, the legislation provides that teachers of any school that is being abolished are intended to be placed in organic gaps in other schools. The above verse, therefore, violates this permanent process and gives the right to school teachers who are being abolished, declared and placed at any school they want, without having any gap, thereby creating chains of work. In any case, we ask that it be withdrawn, Minister. Finally - there is no more time, for standards and experimentals we are voting against all the articles. The government separates standards from experimental, but without abolishing standards, as it promised. They decrease to the number but remain an institution in the educational system, signalling its class character. In other words, it is the schools of the few and the finest. There is still the possibility of selecting students with examinations. In fact, the co-government, your ministry, is moving on to something that has not dared anyone else so far. It enables each standard school to determine how its students choose but also the main aspects of the educational process. Co-government thus opens the way to the infamous autonomy of the school unit, of course, at the SYRIZA. And autonomy of a school unit means hospital autonomy, meaning autonomy of a municipality, and this autonomy trades and privatizes all services and functions at the end. I don't want to say anything more than that. For the selection of school directors the interview and opinion of school teachers, i.e. the club of teachers, is abolished. It will measure up to 33% and the rest will be determined on the basis of formal qualifications. Right this far. However, co-government attempts to raise this issue to a gentleman, but creating delusional ones, that is, the contribution of the club of teachers to the selection of directors will also make the school more democratic. Of course, the teacher's opinion is important. That's not negative. The main issue is not who will elect the director, but what this director will implement, about what legislative framework will move and who will be accountable to or who will control him. It is therefore clear that the director remains committed and obliged to implement government policy, as in the case of student mobility, where some of the managers - not all, I repeat - ran to support the act of legislative content. In any case, as a Communist Party of Greece, we call on the people and youth to organize their struggle by making fair and unsatisfactory demands for the abolition of these two laws, n. No 4186/2013 and No 4/2013. 3966/2011, on the release of the programme and the operation of the high school from the selection process for HEIs and TEIs, for the abolition of separation and early orientation, General High School - PAI - directions, and in order for the degree to be the only condition tomorrow, the day after tomorrow for the profession.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Synatiakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u146	I shall conclude, Mr President. No certification. Repeal of the year of apprenticeship. Practical exercise of organically integrated in the curriculum. No school without teachers and books. Delete all the bills of school committees to public electricity, heating, water, telephone. Free movement of students and students. All these are the demands of the trade union movement, which this bill circumvents them in the name of transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too. The extra tolerance of the Communist Party of Greece is because I was informed by Mr. Synthraki that they would not have a speaker, so it is justified. Please come to Stepma, Mrs. Xoulidou Stavroula.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the new government's first bill on education, which, like the rest of the government's legislative activity, is about to face up to the distortions, injustices, mistakes and omissions of the previous Memorandum Governments. Education - and we all have to agree on it - has been the most brutal and ruthless attack on the Memorandum Policies. School units merged, structure and sectors were abolished, teachers led to availability. And all this was done without purpose, without planning, without justification and without perspective, in an arbitrary and authoritarian way. For all of us who have closely followed the disastrous educational policy implemented during the previous parliamentary term and fought to overthrow it, it is extremely hopeful that we are today discussing the restoration of these damages caused to our education. And we expect these reforms to continue. This report to me, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with exacerbating the confrontation of the current government with the parties to counter-population. The opposite is true. I take it as an example, as an example, for avoidance. I would like to express in the most emphatic way that education cannot and should not be a field of controversy, nor should it be treated as a suitable territory for the service of other interests than the public interest, as many people have seen in the past. The problems that have accumulated are, unfortunately, many and need immediate treatment. That is why as far as possible convergence and consensus are necessary. We need from all of us and from all the educational community a range of thought, to move away from the narrow party and ministries and indeed to build an educational system with vision, with a view, with respect first and foremost to the student, with a view to accepting and integrating diversity and alleviating inequalities. Today's bill includes a number of regulations, which I would like in my first place to give particular weight for symbolic reasons, as they translate the attempt to restore injustices, as I said before. Starting with Chapter I of this bill, I cannot express my deepest satisfaction at the re-establishment of the ESAs specialities that have been abolished and the return of teachers who have been made available to education. An act that was a reproach in the history of our educational system is now restored and the struggle of teachers who saw their names posted on the list of shame is now vindicated. We also welcome the Ministry's intention to upgrade vocational technical education, by reopening the well-established EPAs, as well as by providing for the creation of experimental ESDP and ESDP of special education, satisfying a request for years. Public technical training, ladies and gentlemen, has been degraded by Mr Arvanitopoulos' political decisions and has been granted as a gift, extremely profitable, to the private exploitation. One hundred and six ECDCs were abolished overnight, which provided education and degrees to their graduates, to be replaced by six ECDCs, which provide training and their graduates are sufficient for a follow-up certificate. Vocational training needs clear solutions. Immediately reopening of the hundreds of six ESDPs as PSA with all their specialties. Direct reopening of the repealed sectors and specialities in the ESDP, without any other condition or mediation of a decision. Direct conversion of vocational training schools to PESA. And finally, the immediate abolition of apprenticeship from the fourth class of the ESDP. I would also like to make a special reference to the abolition of the 'classified problem bank', which had so much troubled students and teachers. The introduction of the institution to education, without having been piloted, in order to bring about and correct the problem and, at the same time, without removing the conditions which have made the implementation of inefficient and problematic at the same time, such as the limited time for the preparation of pupils and teachers, but in particular the lack of staff, has had the results that we all know. We agree that the theme bank can continue to be used as an advisory tool, but leave it to the teacher the choice, according to the material he has taught and the student capacity he manages, to choose the themes in question. The exclusive choice of topics from a predetermined question package is restrictive and also causes the corresponding creation of predetermined answers, strengthening memorisation. The wrong application of this institution has been proved in practice. This is also evidenced by the fact that many of his supporters have not been left today. With regard to changing the way in which to enter higher education, we consider that it is moving in the positive direction, as it provides candidates with greater flexibility and more choices, which the previous framework limited, so that they stay out of HEIs and TEIs with very high ratings, not because they were not good students or did not do well in the pan-Hellenic examinations, but because of the selection system. To go now to another critical unit. This draft law repositions the concepts "experimental" and "standard" school. With regard to Chapter II, the redefinition of the role and nature of the experimental and model schools in a society which is aware of the educational system as a means of producing new knowledge, innovation and modernization is also necessary in the right direction. We agree with the abolition of a couple of standards - experimental, since these are two different kinds of schools, which each performs a separate role and purpose. In relation to experimental schools, we must strengthen and support the promotion of educational research in practice, the pilot implementation of new educational programmes, new teaching methods, tools, manuals, good practice, the pilot implementation of innovative creative actions. However, let us not forget that experimental schools as well as standards offer practical practice to undergraduate students of AEIs and postgraduate students in education sciences, in cooperation with the respective university departments. The aim of the experimental schools is to diffuse the results, following a pilot study and implementation to the rest of the public schools, while at the same time feeding up educational planning. The bet for the Ministry of Education is, therefore, to lay the basis for conclusions and to ensure the implementation of the results of pilot projects throughout the country as a whole. The system of introduction into the experimental, through the draw, ensures a representative sample for the implementation of pilot methods, making it possible to apply them to other schools, thereby ensuring public and free education, high quality for all. However, the abolition of the association of standards - experimentally requires in addition to protecting the role of experimental schools and extending the school model to at least every county, promoting cooperation and synergy with the rest of the region's high schools and high schools in order to develop common activities and actions. History should not outweigh the educational necessity and upgrading of all public schools to standards. In particular, in Article 11, I would like to see the possibility of a single application at an experimental or standard school. Since these are separated and perform different roles, why should this be the case? I would like to rethink at this point the opportunity for students to apply to both types of schools. In Article 14 on educational staff, I should like to stress that teachers who had an organic position in experimental schools prior to the vote on n. They could return after their application to their former organic positions. By voting for the previous law, they lose their organic positions. These teachers were typically and effectively qualified, they had taken their organic position on the basis of scientific criteria and had been judged by FYROM in FYROM. However, this is an issue that I believe we can see in a reasonable time in the multi-brand plan. In Chapter III the proposed regulation seeks a more democratic approach to the selection of teaching staff with the participation of teachers themselves, who are invited to choose the most appropriate candidate on the basis of the qualifications of scientific and pedagogical training, teaching and administrative experience, taking into account modern educational perceptions, democratic behaviour and the availability of coordination and cooperation. In a positive mood, therefore, we have noted that the Ministry of Education has embraced many of our proposals on molecules sharing, in order to strengthen dignity in the process. In this draft law, the opinion of teachers by secret ballot itself is proposed to replace the interview. It is admittedly a very ambitious proposal, but it is subject to doubts which I hope we will have time to discuss and resolve on the basis of a truly constructive dialogue. In fact, the participation of teachers in the promotion of training staff contributes to the democratisation of the process. There is no doubt that the assessment and opinion of a school's teachers for their manager are important factors in the proper functioning of a training unit. However, I am giving you strong objections which have been raised by the educational community to the increased rate of moleculosis resulting. In particular, Article 19 on the evaluation of criteria for the selection of training directors, heads and school units, the proposals of the draft law are in the right direction. However, they need a number of key improvements in terms of mobilisation of studies and qualifications. We could therefore say that we need to consider the rated mobilisation of all qualifications on the basis of and relevance to educational and administrative work. At this point I would point out that the university degrees necessary for appointment must be modulated. The degree in any case helps and improves the performance of a training strain, except for the reason given. It is also good to see the postgraduate offered by the possibility of completion of three to nine semesters with recognition by the IATP, because it is unfair those who have finished in a shorter time, namely in three semesters, are not entitled to molecules. With regard to Article 22 on time and procedure, we propose to increase from two to more of the candidates' choices, in particular for the positions of school directors. The two options provided for in the draft law are very restrictive. Before going to the next chapter, I would like to take note of another proposal, which we believe will improve the procedure proposed. So, as Independent Greeks, we proposed that there should be a weighted psychometric test to evaluate the personality, the administrative, management capacity and the emotional balance of the candidate. That is what we are proposing to be preliminary and to be mobilised. However, as such a proposal needs to be organised and possibly set up a scientific committee by experts, we can look at it in the ultimate future. Finally, with regard to Chapter IV, we are in agreement with the reintroduction of the possibility for members of the Armed Forces and the Security Forces of transferring a place of entry to the HEIs and TEIs in the city they serve. This is a prerequisite for staff in the Security Colleges and the Forces in order to be able to claim their admission to a higher education school but also to attend and complete it successfully. Of course, the institutional framework for the transfer of an import position will allow me to say that it is a painful story which, ladies and gentlemen, we must rethink very carefully. It is essential to find the golden section and to establish a framework that enables financially weaker students to study, but also to ensure the proper functioning of all university institutions in the country. In addition, Chapter IV solves the problem with the deletion of so-called eternal students who have really caused such an inconvenience to thousands of students and their families. We believe that the Ministry rightly displays social sensitivity and allows this regulation to students at risk by deleting them to complete their studies. The tried by the Greek Memorandum Policies needs support and not another knife on the back. As it has been economically exhausted, it cannot continue to bear the burden of study costs, so that many students and students are forced to postpone completion of their studies. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to point out that these arrangements of this draft law are of a transitional and pilot nature in order to correct non-existent arrangements. As Independent Greeks we never served the sterile opposition. We have had a sharper impact on the unfavourable attacks that have been taken by education, but we have also supported those initiatives that have been positive. Faithful to our positions will continue the fight to improve the educational system and the conditions for the provision of educational services. The aim is to jointly formulate a new educational policy that will strengthen and stimulate the creative forces of the country, the new generation. After the turbulence of the public school from the memorial policies we are here to upgrade the public school, give solutions, breath and hope to Greek students and Greek families, give young people the opportunity to dream without limits, knowing that if they manage to be better this will be recognized. So let us all contribute with long-term planning and carefree dialogue to the effective response of the problems of the educational system, laying the foundations for the development of society, on the basis of knowledge, quality and innovation in public schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Xulidou. Before Mrs Christophilopoulou comes to Stepa, I should like to inform you, because we need the approval of this House for Tuesday's procedure. It is consensual and a process that has been agreed between the parties. At 11:00 a.m. Tuesday morning, we'll start with immunities lifting, so that we don't cut the flow of the bill and don't mess it up. It takes about an hour. At 12 noon, continuation of the Ministry of Education bill. Ending at 19.00 p.m. and as long as there are requests for roll-call vote, there will be a roll-call vote or a simple vote. As this will take about an hour and a half, at 21.00 noon, after the draft law of the Ministry of Education has come to an end, the legislative act with the Minister and the rapporteurs of the parties will begin and will continue on Wednesday morning the legislative act until late at noon, because on Wednesday there will be a special session of the Parliament dedicated to the "Peace Ship" which will be in Piraeus. Is this House conducive to this process?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Petrakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, in order to have this process - not to get away from us - we have also agreed that there should be a list of speakers to be given by the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u152	You mean for Tuesday?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u153	For Tuesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u154	He may be enlarged, but the parties will nominate their speakers. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u155	Five by SYRIZA, four by New Democracy and two by the rest of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u156	Okay. It is a party agreement and the parties will be appointed. You're right, I missed it. The House unanimously approves this proposal. We continue with the latest special rapporteur, Eve Christophilopoulou. You have the floor, Mrs Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. The bill that we are discussing today in a peculiar process, but agreed in common, as much as what has been announced, shows that interventions in education in recent times are unfortunately characterised by the lack of dialogue - and I am talking about the consultation and dialogue that must take place, particularly on the sensitive issues of education, before Parliament - the logic of minor effort and, of course, of undividedness. I'm coming, Minister, to specialize. Lack of dialogue: The explanatory statement already says about this draft law that has been submitted and has from there arrangements for standards, for eternal, for directors' choices - I would say that it is a puzzle, I will not say a rag, as you said, I will say a puzzle - that then there will be a dialogue. In other words, once we have demolished the history of standards, we will have a dialogue. After we're done with the elections in school, then we'll have a dialogue. After we make sure he starts blowing off. 4009 for S.H.I.E., then we'll have a dialogue. But that's not all that's done. Yesterday, Minister, you yourself, in the timely question I put to you, said that in two or three days' time you would be posted to the opengov for two to three days - you said to me 'in the middle of the week' - there is, in the Minutes, the multi-branded project that concerns the first year of the year. We are delighted to hear from Mr Kourakis that the evaluation is being abolished. Bravo! That's nice! And in this bill there is the abolition of n. 4009 and that is what you said, Minister, to me, to the House here, that he will come in the middle of the next week or rather be posted, as I said, at the opengov for two - three days - you said - and then immediately thereafter he will come to Parliament. That will be dialogue, fine. I understand that. For I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that SYRIZA, in its current form or with the previous ones, has never taken part in any attempts by the Greek state to engage in a national debate on education. Then, in the Babiniotis committee, he did not participate. After the intergroup dialogue on technical education for the new high school, he did not participate. So how are you going to conduct a national dialogue if you want? Because I have heard the Prime Minister say to Mr Theodorakis that he will consult. "Of course" he told him, he would consult. Is that what he meant? What you told me yesterday or else the Prime Minister says and what else the Minister says? Explain yourself. Secondly, unfortunately, this is obviously an attempt to go loose. Come on, though, standards now? We want experimental. You are keeping a set of standards, as you have said, for historical reasons, which are only in the Attica basin. These schools are good public schools. It's schools of excellence. You told us, Minister, that you opposed this excellence. For whose benefit? Because research shows that in the standards and experimentally of this law, you condemn it and want to abolish it, 70% of the children who are studying there are children who are working in the public and private sectors. Are these the elites? Are these the elite schools? Good public schools? Why are you giving a gift to private education to the standard schools? Because I hear too many private people want to say they're standards there, standards here. Private education does well, it does it within the legal framework. From there on, however, the abolition of standard schools is different. I agree with the proposal - and we have also discussed it in committee - since you insist on decoupling - we disagree, you insist - at least keep the form of the standard in other parts of Greece. And as we had planned - what is your plan, really? - to go make standards in every county. So why not? I also want to remind you that not only are children workers, but 17% are foreign children, migrant children. These are the models you're closing down. I see that time is running, so while remaining in the logic of a minor effort, I will go through the issue of eternal students, Minister. You belong to the highest and we all know very well that there are people who will never come. And I would like you, please, to tell me a highly qualified university institution in a country of the world, which has absolutely no limit to the completion of university studies. It was a pathogen. We abolished it and bring it back. Who are you presenting a present to? To students, who, together with the abolition of Law 4009, will reintroduce the relationships of interlocutors and candidates with the abolition of management boards? Is that what you want to bring back to the Greek universities? Of course, because this is in line with your intention to abolish also the English-speaking departments, which could attract students from other countries to the extroversion of Greek universities, to interconnect them with innovation and knowledge, to strengthen them. Of course, eternal students are the first step. But that is also in the logic of a minor effort. You are calling - and the Prime Minister has done so today - on social grounds. We have therefore proposed to you both in committee and we are telling you that you can find ways. Mr Fortsakis, himself from the tertiary, said a specific proposal. Take this proposal, make a consultation and bring forward a proposal by which those students who, on social grounds, cannot complete their studies, yes, give them one last chance, but then, on academic criteria. And here I would appeal to George Papandreou, who in 1964 had said: "We had free education, gentlemen, not free immortality." You guys from the SYRIZA and the ANELs take us to the free immortality, that's where you take us. Now let's go to the executives. We like to speak truths, even if these truths also have criticism for us and for what we have done. So listen. Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister, quite rightly said - and he is right - that regional directors are small ministers in the thirteen regions. Indeed, it is the law. He said to change him. Let's see. In the meantime, however, I have asked you a question and an application for documents, Mr Minister, about a month ago for regional managers. I have therefore asked that their curriculum be submitted. These gorgeous resumes where they are, really? You don't deposit it, it's personal. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done a job. We looked to find from the local press and from whatever sources we had, which are these resumes and together we took the CVs from the 2010 regional directors. I will submit it to the House and I expect you to answer me, because I may have a mistake, because, as I said, you did not want to testify. You didn't testify to me for the official curriculum. So I got it from the local press. Not myself, but we have searched and found some information published, so this is not about personal data, as you refer to someone's CV and indeed a mini-minister, as the Prime Minister said. I put it in the Minutes of the House, so that the House can judge. Of course, one can make a policy choice and you have had every right to make political choices for management officials. They are, therefore, executives belonging to the wider space. Besides, the Prime Minister did it for his government, for some ministers. You were able to make a political choice with merital criteria. So let the Greek Parliament judge who had the most scientific and administrative qualifications: regional directors of 2010 or 2015? [[At this point the honourable Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, if it's wrong, I'm saying it's why you didn't testify to me on the official CVs of the regional directors. I'm continuing on the same subject. I have also heard that the selection system, which is a fragmentary one, as you bring it here, for education directors and school managers, is an attempt to go to democracy and I wonder: What criteria are we going to go to democracy without going to democracy? I am now explaining for the regional training directors. In the final mobilisation of the candidate for training managers, school directors, who will in turn have been selected by votes and mobilisation of 33% in schools by the teachers' associations, participate in the final mobilisation of the candidate. Watch what you're doing. While the school year is ending, instead of saying - what could one say - you are government, you have another plan - so you say we have not seen it - for the administration of education - bring it - extend the mandates of regional directors for a few months, extend the mandates of training directors for a few months. A few months would be them by autumn. I'd say you could make it by the beginning of the new school year. Bring in a comprehensive plan, which has the roles, responsibilities and the record, because I have heard colleagues from your side of the SYRIZA, Minister, say - of course - that the schools should be run entirely by the school club. We believe that the teachers' association should have a major role - to be involved in the administration on a number of serious issues - in the interconnection of the school and not just in the teaching process. It must have an essential role in the educational process, but also in the interconnection of the school with the local society. That's our idea. Yours is another, but how do you bring the selection procedures before you tell us what exactly the role these executives will have? The candidates, therefore, and the training directors who will ask for the vote of their colleagues and the schools will be converted into polling centres in a short time. Instead of dealing with how to get better, how to close the year better, we will deal with who votes in there. So instead of doing this, you insist on bringing this provision, without any plans, as I have told you, and none of your own illusions about how you mean the responsibilities under Andreas Papandreou Street and the central offices of the Ministry. Furthermore, I am well aware that you have also been raised by the ILO on an unconstitutional issue. He wants to search if it's unconstitutional. There is, however, a question of substance. Is there a single crisis? Are you guaranteeing a uniform judgment, or are you not interested in being wronged by some who are made or not made managers? You don't care about that? Also - and the ILO says so - I do not say them - basically the boards of teachers, the associations of teachers, are turned into crisis councils and, therefore, how, without explanation of vote they judge and on what criteria they judge? Have you been concerned about this or all you wanted is incompletely and without dialogue to change the whole system? Look, we believe that in the issues of education, as I said at the beginning of my speech, there must be wide-ranging dialogue, as is also necessary for the wider issues of the country, the issues of negotiation and its course. She needs a consensus, but you need to be able to do it, and especially want to do it. We, therefore, while in the sports bill, as you have seen, voted for it at first and most of the articles - but this was after a hard consultation in this House and with a great deal of effort, we told the Minister our limits, our proposals, were accepted - in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, we can only vote on minimum provisions. I would like to tell you, however, that you have this majority today. It is a pity that this majority only responds to small party customers, not to respond to the wider audience of national education, which are teachers, teachers, parents, universities, students, students, all those who bring together the great educational community. So instead of addressing them, and that is the great pity, because - I say again - there was no reason - and you saw, Minister, and in the process we tried to make it easier for you - I told you to make those arrangements which you consider to be governmental. Two or three would have been, after all, in committee. Bring them in. We, all right, we may have been a little smack of why you're bringing them, but this is one of the bad things that exists over time, you didn't bring it, I like being honest. And since you want them, then, we should have voted on them, even in Mr Kontonis's bill. But what you bring here and what you will bring, as Mr Baltas said next week, bag of tea, two days at opengov and then that comes to Parliament, is an exhibition of education and tradition in your own electoral clientele. And I don't mean that it's a great election for the audience that voted for you, without being intimate to your party, but in the narrow sense of your party, because you serve them. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] So we say you'll find us across the street. But you won't find us alone. You will find a big social front, because when the average parent understands, the average educator what these changes are going to mean today are going to be voted on and those who will come for education tomorrow will be set up a social front. Because we must not go back to education, but forward. And we have to go ahead with consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, my colleague. The President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Evangelos Venizelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, as I speak immediately after the special speaker of PASOK, Mr Christophilopoulou, who presented our positions in an excellent and systematic manner, I will not go into the details of the draft legislation under discussion. But I have the status of university teacher and feel not political, but institutional and moral obligation to underline two, three of the points raised by Mrs Christophilopoulou. If that country wants to have a future - something that deserves and can - it must be based on endogenous development resources. I have said many times that endogenous resources are the land that we have with what it means to people, intellectual capital, knowledge. It is a real historical crime at the expense of the country's development prospects to undermine the concept of excellence in education at all levels. The question is not whether we will have standards and experimental schools or just one, whether some traditional models with a long history will remain only in the Attica basin. The question is the classicity and inequality of the educational system. When there are no public educational institutions of excellence, there are practical support for those who can teach in private schools and foreign universities. These manifest themselves as the country's leading class. See your Government, see what executives are playing a decisive role. See why you have recourse to the political services of a special class of professors of economic theory who have such routes to private schools and well foreign universities. Select Managers. It is a real pity that the basic criterion of education is that trade union culture and trade union practice. When the placement of regional directors marks such a party perception, it is distributed throughout education. Today's front page of the newspaper "KATHMERINI" on the danger Grexit of Greek universities needs a documented answer, because if we create any problem on our own in relation to European and international mobility, then we will have created an additional problem for the public university. The undermining of the public university, for which I have fought too much, actually destroys Article 16. We do not then need to protect a shell without content, because if the content is lost, it does not matter what the institutional shell is. This also concerns the election of the Republican authorities. I am one of those who fought in the early 1980s to impose the democratic participation university of the groups. However, at that time it was about completing the dematerialization of post-multipulation in the field of university. Now in 2015 the priorities, criteria and experiences are completely different. I noticed that Mr Tsipras in the parliamentary control process and in the opening of the Prime Minister's time answered a question from the President of Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, on educational policy issues. However, it did not come to the legislative work process, so that there would be a reason and analogy with all the political forces and refused to answer my topical question on the substance of the issue of society, which is the course of the negotiations, where the country is going. It has been sufficient in a unilateral declaration from the government's headquarters, without any response and response. I will not talk about the fine dialogue Mr. Tsipras had with Mr. Nicolopoulou of the Independent Greeks, who has asked him difficult questions, difficult issues in relation to the complexity and corruption. This conversation was of great interest. All I want to say is that Mr. Tsipras is an active Prime Minister and badly has a sense of judge of everything. A judge of the world is the Patriarch of Alexandria, not Mr. Tsipras, even when he speaks with the style of many cardinals. The Patriarch of Alexandria is also a Pope, after all, above the Greek Prime Minister. So respect the independence of justice and not have a sense of irresponsibility and immunity for its current responsibilities, that is, for what is happening now. And if he wants to send messages to business interests, for example in the media field, let him do so, let him do so by means of the independent authorities. Repeating the same words and threats is? Announcing an institutional policy or attempted political blackmail? And behind what the Prime Minister says, who are those who expect to fill the gap? We all like Jerusalem and all know faces and things, contacts, understandings, interests, connections, who are being prepared. And in any case, I have told you once again that the ten seconds that dedicate us as PASOK the news releases of the major television stations, we give them to you to add them to your own, but respect the Constitution, respect the law, and do not enter so dangerous games of power - you have entered very deeply - in the theological sense of the term, as I spoke before about this papal, cardinal style of the Prime Minister. Why did he refuse to answer my question? Why has Mr Varoufakis refused to answer my question and to submit to Parliament the documents relating to the four-month extension of the main financial facility agreement? Why does the President of Parliament not put on the agenda the special topical and urgent question I have tabled because of an unsatisfactory reply to the request for documents to be lodged? That's very interesting. Because you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA-ANEL majority, do not know the data and fight, most of you trustworthy, "for an empty shirt, for an Eleni" and you will find yourself in very unpleasant surprises in the next few days. There's a panic ahead of Monday's Eurogroup. The Government spokesman was revealing. Best, he said, will be a positive statement to the Eurogroup on Monday - why? - in order not to change the terms of the European Central Bank in relation to the financing of the Greek banks, not to increase the interest-rate threshold, but not to reduce the yield of the pledges of the Greek banks and to create an even greater problem for liquidity, unfortunately. Why didn't you do what you had to do in February? Why have you not continued in the context you have found, so that on 28 February the substantive discussion has been completed and that we have come out of the state of the memorandum and gone to the preventive credit line. Mr Tsipras says that the objective is an honest, mutually beneficial agreement. When? For how long? With what funding? In what context? Memorandum three? How much additional loan? Who's going to give who and who's going to approve? And for how many more years have Greece been staying under a memorandum regime, on the margins, outside markets, with no prospect of recovery? What about the real economy with the recession? What about the financial data? What will be the target of 2015? The 3.1% that Mr Varoufakis promised on "mail Varoufakis", 3.9% that he considered possible or 1.2% that he said when he is not officially addressing his interlocutors? The worst part is that Mr. Tsipras today undermined all his arguments internationally, but also his country's history, because, he says, there is a question of democracy. "If they do not agree with us, they will kill democracy." Yes, but I've told him many times that the argument is reversible. They may also invoke British elections, Finnish elections, Spanish elections and elections in another twenty-seven countries, in eighteen eurozone countries. There is, he says, a matter of political will. To do what happened when we joined the European Communities in 1980 on Constantine Karamanlis and what happened with our accession to EMU in 2000 on Constantinople. So what's he saying? He says we're in without meeting the prerequisites. It therefore accepts and encourages the main argument of Europe's most extreme conservative circles against us. It also says: "I want to do what I denounce, because these are great moments of the cursed postpopulation, which is the womb of the crisis." That is to say, these are the major milestones of the period that it denounces, blazes, spits, spits, and joins the European Union and joins EMU. Integration in 1980 also took place for political reasons, but we have abstained for seven years from the fall of the dictatorship. The accession to EMU did not take place for political reasons relating to Greece, but for statistical reasons concerning Italy, because Greece has better data than Italy, and if Greece did not enter Italy, and the euro area could not be established. Otherwise, we accept what the most extreme circles say in Germany and Britain, because we are both in Europe and within the Eurozone. So, are we, despite all the Greeks and Greece, with fake evidence? That's what the Prime Minister says from the Step of the House. He comes and undermines his country and the European character of his country. Why? Because he's not negotiating with the outsiders. He's negotiating with the media. And that's why he can't finish the negotiation. That's why I'm back. It is not a question of agreeing with the outsiders. That's where we want to help out. The point is that we do not know the negotiation within the majority SYRIZA - ANEL, behind closed rooms. And that is why devising the referendum as an escape from the internal-party deadlock, at national cost. And unfortunately now, even the best prospect of the agreement is Memorandum 3. Who will give the extra loan - not enough EUR 30 billion available - by July 15, which are the big ends and on what terms? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the operation of familiarising public opinion with tax raid is now starting with the plan of decaying the middle class, where anyone who has an annual income of EUR 30 000, for example, is considered rich. He's on his way to the target. HIS VIA remains. The tax-free limit doesn't come back. Exceptional contribution returns all. The solidarity levy is increasing. With VAT rates you are preparing something that will work counter-development to the full. We have extra tax on nights, luxury tax. How much? Okay, how much. For what purpose? Let's go, where? We, with a very small package of measures, would go out of a memorial to the prudential credit line and go back to markets. Where are you taking the country for how many years? The wordings are amazing and will come into the history of political and diplomatic life. It says the Tsipras - Juncker Joint Declaration: "We want an insurance law..." - fair means that anyone who pays for more contributions gets more money. The insurance is more favourable for those who have little or no contributions - "...financially viable", not just proportionally, but also effective, that is, to be able to pay pensions. It has accepted everything, that is, the whole concept of the International Monetary Fund, not the European Commission. The same applies, of course, to the new type of collective agreements. The troika has always wanted a new type of collective bargaining. The question is how you manage the labour market, having these unemployment rates we have. Public opinion, in fact, wants agreement on the majority of it and, of course, on the euro. However, public opinion wants the government, the SYRIZA Government - Independent Greeks to take this burden. We do not share invoked offers of assistance to a government that may not have a declared majority. We are in favour of the national strategy, for the national consensus, for the national negotiating team, but we want to help from this House as a opposition. These proposals address the provocative arrogance and indifference of Mr Tsipras. The electorate said we should stay on the sidelines. We are a small parliamentary force. The parliamentary body allowed SYRIZA - Independent Greeks to be teratogenic. But we retain the right to be a power of truth. So it's time for the truth. We are not telling you to join our policy. We tell you to see the truth and say it and say it and apologize to the Greek citizen for being consciously misled, not by us. The cost time has come, not only for Mr Tsipras and the small group of Maximos but for all members of the parliamentary majority, each and every one of them personally. No one can keep their plagiar, antimony virginity. It is very important that you understand that there are no Pontius Pilates and neutral governments, which are ready to implement both policies and policies, as long as they remain in power. So we will not make it easier for the government to implement other policies, such as the foreign policy that implements nationalistism, what is happening in the institutions. We do not facilitate election and post-election lies, bad negotiation, an inconsistent agreement without a strategic framework and perspective. We do not support the manifestations of political humiliation. We do not accept the submission of the national interest to the feasibility of the party unity and unity of the monstrous SYRIZA-Independent Greek coalition. I call on Mr Tsipras personally to come to the House with genuine terms of parliamentary dialogue as soon as possible, not as he has come today, figuratively, so that he can inform the House of practical and concrete content, responsiblely and not with childish communication majorities that last a few minutes. The national interest is long and history judges it, it is not a communal trick a few hours or even a few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty-six students and schoolchildren and six educational attendants from the 39th Larisa Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Aristides Baltas has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to refer to three points. Mr Venizelos, just - with his well-known eloquence and rhetoric - did what he accused Mr Tsipras of: He cut off a procedure with regard to education and education and, indeed, to the form of urgency, in order to repeat what he has been saying properly all along, perhaps with some new phrases that they have, perhaps, their meaning. The new phrase was a warning to the SYRIZA Government: 'Don't get into power games', implying - I imagine - that this is our exclusive competence. That is to say, we are not entitled to hitting corruption and complication, because that means that we are going deep into games of power. I would just like to repeat what the government says on this issue, all this time, throughout the election period, that the issues of interoperable, corruption and real power are, of course, our objective, which, at all levels and in all forms, will be dealt with by law. The second indication that Mr. Venizelos said is that he called us for panic, that we will face unpleasant surprises in the days ahead. And as in the well-known rhetorical way that says these are reversed, they are reversed, I say that this is reversed. I imagine it is the panic of Mr Venizelos and his party because these negotiations will succeed. And since these negotiations will succeed, it will appear after all who was right, who was wrong, who was exactly what Hardouvelis mail was, what is the agreement that will be reached - which we do not yet know - on which terms it will be achieved numerically, explicitly, in the hands of the entire Greek people. I don't want to abuse your time. At a general level, I would just like to say a few words about what I have heard from the honourable Members and honourable Members. I must say that I was very pleased to hear Mr Fortsakis' position, who respected what we have all accepted, that we are talking in urgent procedure, that we have problems in particular that we are called upon to solve and not all the problems of education. He respected, in his way, what we say from the outset, the fact that this bill does not solve the problems, but is by definition fragmentary. Despite what my colleague from the JRC said, however, it is fragmentary, it wants to be nothing more than a fragmentary one. He recognises his fragmentation, and in this context we are discussing it. In addition, Mr Fortsakis has, in my opinion, done something important - at last, throughout the public space, the spectrum that is perpetuating and repeated by loudspeakers from the media and elsewhere - that we are supposedly abolishing standards and experimental methods - I respect that - I applaud that - that what we are doing is distinguishing the standards from experimental ones. He said his views on experimental experiments, he said his views on standards, they are discussed in real dialogue and in real consultation, in greater time than today, we will be able to discuss them - I believe - very constructively. For even the proposal that Greece may need more standards, I and I think the entire leadership of the Ministry of Education and the government are willing to discuss this as well. In addition, he said something - I think - constructive: that it is not logical that the House should finally deal with how many hours of mathematics will take place in the Second High School, how many hours Ancient in the Third High School, etc. It is not the work of this House, it is the work of an institution under the supervision of the Ministry of Education, in which such things will be solved before they reach their condensation perhaps in the House to be discussed. So to discuss who this institution might be, because until now we have not been able to have such an institution and to follow up constructively in terms of consensus, as the big question of education requires. A third positive, by Mr Fortsakis, is the idea that training staff, because they have particular responsibilities, particularly tasks, are neither generally administrative nor general education staff, can result from some form of public administration specialising in matters of training staff. It is also a constructive remark that we can discuss it immediately after we leave the urgent and urgent debate. From there on we are obviously continuing on some points - alas - to disagree with Mr Fortsakis, but still his way was mild, so that we can also discuss these points that remain disagreeable. For example, eternal: Eternal is a non-problem, which has become a problem when the general attack on the Greek universities began. Suddenly, the problem of ages was recovered out of nowhere, which bothered anyone, and Mr. Fortsakis recognized this. They do not cost anything for those who spend some years of study without having received the degree. It became the big problem, the stigma of the country and so on. The solution is very simple. There is a list of active students, a list of non-active students in fact at each secretariat and with a simple press of the button someone who is on the list of non-actives, passes on to the list of active students without any kind of fuss. After all, the laws for centuries have not been implemented but at a university, because it is a monstrous bureaucratic work. It takes accreditation for every century, which is impossible, when in addition to all the others the managers left the universities. I am saying this in order to oppose such constructive proposals, which relate, for example, to specific aspects of the draft law, such as the TECs and the EPAs on the side of the JRC. We agree with most of what they have said. Vocational training schools which children leave high school should be abolished, with care that those who are studying and those who teach can be normally integrated by transitional provisions into the existing system. So we are fully prepared to hear and include these proposals in this bill, in so far as it is done, and in the next time it comes and which will have a longer period of consultation, Mr Christophilopoulou. But I do not understand how you did not understand that we have three levels of discussion. One level is today, this urgent bill, for reasons that we have explained in detail. We must be done by Tuesday at the latest so that the year can go smoothly. There is a less urgent but urgent one, the so-called multi-project, which concerns various parts relating to the Ministry of Education, which must also be completed before the summer. At the same time, the Prime Minister told her this morning about a real framework law for the HEIs, higher education, and primary and secondary, which, on a one-and-a-half-and-a-half scale - I do not know exactly how much, perhaps less - in terms of real consultation and commitment of the Government, will respond to the consultation and will not be 'open up a debate which no-one takes into account', we will be able to discuss proposals like those of Mr Fortsakis or others on the basis of a specific procedure that we will put before Parliament, the parties, the bodies involved and the entire Greek people. From there to say a final phrase, for example: they are not constructive positions like those of Mrs Antonaku from Potami, who simply repeat, I trade, all this cloud, which is circulated in public, in newspapers, in demonstrations made here or there, which are some full-on misinterpretation procedures, not to say a complete scourge. We have often explained, explained, analysed with press releases, with articles, with our locations, and yet the cloud remains, that we want to return everything to the past, that we want to regroup the universities - neither is it true - and so on. I would ask that such positions should not be made in this way. The same line was about Mrs Christophilopoulou. Because these positions literally abolish the concept of dialogue. Dialogue means for a reason. Talk means plus demand, we're looking together. Dialogue means going through one place to another, crossing space, after I understand what my interlocutor says, so that there can be dialogue. A dialogue in the form of 'you say what', which none of us has ever said, is a dialogue. It is a reason for sighting, for creating impressions, but thank God, the impressions of this type, the impressions of this type have short feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u164	What do you want, Mrs. Christophilopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u165	The personal speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u166	You have the floor for a minute, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u167	The Minister of Education at the moment referred to me and Mrs Antonaku, describing our speech as a trade union press and not a constructive one. The Minister is a non-parliamentary, perhaps not aware of it. But, Mr President, I, and other colleagues, know that they are outside parliamentary morals, but the ministers rather than answering, commenting on one of the rapporteurs and describing them. So I was characterized by myself and Mrs Antonaku in some way. I protest and raise a point of order, because it is not customary - I say again - from the small parliamentary experience I have, for the ministers to answer, whether they are parliamentarians or non-parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, in turn four parliamentary representatives have asked for the floor: Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Papapas, Mrs Lyberakis and Mr Cremastinos. Mr. Petrako, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u169	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u170	Okay. In the order you requested, we're going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u171	What are the speakers going to do? Will they follow? To precede once.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u172	The Bureau is obliged, Mr President, under the Rules of Procedure, if Parliamentary Representatives are asked to give it the floor. But we have the comfort of time. They are not written after many colleagues. So let's be a little tolerant, move on smoothly. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very surprised to hear the conclusion of the position of the Minister and the lecture on the substance of the dialogue, which must take place within this sitting, but also outside it. Minister, are you serious? There was no debate at all before the bill, which you tabled. You called on the urgent procedure, when you had the opportunity of the few really urgent issues to incorporate them into another bill and give sufficient time to discuss a bill which makes very important contributions to secondary and higher education. Is that the real dialogue that you want to have, not only within the House, but outside the House? And when do the party you represent today participated in any real dialogue on education? There has been no dialogue and I think you have no intention of having any dialogue. Because when you are seriously claiming to put up a bill for consultation for some days, we understand exactly what your real intentions are: to finish an hour earlier in the process of legislating, so that you can fulfil your real mission, which I think is absolutely clear when you read this bill. I heard the Prime Minister in his answer to Mr Theodorakis make a reference to the n. 4009/2011, who was voted on here in the Chamber in August 2011, and claiming about that law and the supra-party majority that was formed, was a pretext for a co-operation government, so on the substance of a parliamentary experiment on how the next party correlations will be formed. Let me re-establish the truth a little. The New Democracy was then deeply concerned about whether it had to pass this bill and the overrun was evidently done by the New Democracy, because the bill was the bill proposed by the PASOK government. I believe that, with my personal encouragement and encouragement, we have decided to vote on this bill. Because although we had reservations and objections to some of his specific articles, we really believed that he was facing radical and practical chronic pathogens of higher education. There was no precedent for party co-operation. But from the New Democracy's point of view, there was the willingness to overcome traditional party housings, finally see the truth in the face and face these pathogens by supporting a bill, which was then brought to this Chamber by our traditional political opponent. And we did it, and we were proud to do it. In fact, there were two hundred fifty-five Members who supported this effort, which you now come slowly and you want to dismantle. Because the bill we are debating today is of two objectives. The first is the systematic breakthrough of education, both secondary and tertiary, in the name of a neo-communist equilibrium. I'll come back to this term. Don't laugh, Minister, because I'll come back to this term. And be careful if you're exposed. The second objective, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is the suffocating control of education administration by the party and trade unions, who have for many years seen education as their own personal group. I think that all initiatives are distinguished by an ideological obsession. I'll explain why I'm saying that. What we call 'civil education' needs to be undermined. Values, such as effort, speech, thinking autonomy, concepts such as interconnecting education with production and the market, or perhaps the value of basic research, must be denomination, all this must eventually melt in the kiln of class struggle. Because I'm telling you this, you'll tell me. Is it possible to call such words in a room in the 21st century, to make such references to neo-communist ideologies? I would not have done so, Minister, if I did not read with great interest an article you published, not thirty years ago - then I could possibly understand it, many in fact loved communism in their youths - but an article that you published on 4 January 2015, that is, during the election period, entitled "The seven K". What's the seventh "K"? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will make full use of my time, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me read to you: 'Let us leave it a temporary concern, because it is what governs and unites all the above K. It is the K of Communism, as its idea has already begun to be renewed and enriched by the action and thoughts of countless people throughout the world'. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr Minister, be careful when you are laughing at my reports of neo-communism, because you yourself adopted them on what you just wrote a few months ago. In addition, you have provided a sample of writing which is very clear in the programming statements. Why are you, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u174	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u175	Oh, I'm saying. Because I read things that have been written. In addition, the Minister was very clear in the programme statements. He gave his mark. The phrase you said about "excellence" and "retsinia" has been recorded in the collective subconsciousness of the Greek people. I think that any reasonable citizen who is thinking about what he would like to do is to promote - and our rapporteur, Mr Fortsakis, has said so, but you have selectively referred to his speech, because I think that he has made you a very tough criticism of the substance of the bill - of equal opportunities, Minister, not of equal effect. Isn't that right? One cannot prescribe where one will end up. Not everyone, like you and I, has the luck of attending private schools. Most will be restricted to public education. But I think that what you are trying to do and through this bill is equality of results and, above all, equalisation downwards. Because of course when the budgetary need is swallowing up, as it seems, the Thessaloniki programme, somewhere your left-wing ideas will have to erupt. We saw it in the case of Savva Xiros, we saw it in the case of some provisions in the Katrugalos bill, we saw it in the other provisions of the justice bill, and now we see it in the education bill. And you can't finally get away from this dogmatism of a small Left, which is rushing to put a class mark on everything, to the same score. You can't stand excellence. Because I think the concept of excellence which you are expressing is modesty. So you can't stand excellence. You can't stand them, because you're finally the Left that expresses modesty. And I listened with interest to the Prime Minister defending eternal students. Why has the Prime Minister defended such interesting students today? I don't know. Is it because he belonged to the same charge? I don't know. If I judge, at least I don't know when the Prime Minister ended and how much he could have taken him to complete his studies and what he had to do with his student years. What I know, though, is that the Greek taxpayer provides free education to students. This is a privilege and along with this privilege there are certain rights. Rights and obligations go together. Of course, when the taxpayer pays for the studies of the young person who enters a university, the consequence of the follow-up of a curriculum is the basic requirement that a student must have, in order to enjoy the privilege of the Greek taxpayer having access to free education. So do we want to have a education that is loose, fragmented, whoever wants to come in, who wants to get out? And I am not referring to those few cases, which we might be able to see, young children who really cannot continue their studies. You know very well that the charge of eternal students is not that. Others are the charges of eternal students. Of course, eternal students will always be a very good tank of candidate "fighters" who participated enthusiastically in all student mobilisations, without any sense of their own obligations towards the same system they were in. As far as standards and experimental schools are concerned, Minister, a lot has been said, but no one can argue that the standards were experimental in the end the refuge for the worthwhile pupils, who could not teach in private schools, that is, those to whom you are not today giving the opportunity to participate in a school and to compete with children with increased skills - rightly said by Mr Fortsakis - and not necessarily excellent students. And I wonder: If we don't experiment on new methods, at a school that can have chosen students on its own criteria, where will we be experimenting? The general population? Possibly yes. But why do you deny the possibility of young children, generally poor families, to be able to attend a school that can really meet their expectations? It is something that I cannot understand, and I really do not see it, that your first action and your first statement as Minister aimed precisely at abolishing this type of pilot schools - to leave four fundamentals - and who knows what limitations on the conduct of the examinations are in the end. Perhaps all four schools - or five with the addition of the Lifelong School - are not even able to carry out examinations and function in the way they themselves have chosen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Mitsotakis, please, take care of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u177	No, wait a minute. You have made a small mistake, Mr President. You gave all the speakers their normal time, because you probably did not follow the debate that we are not going with the shorter time of the urgent debate, but with normal time. So my normal time is twelve minutes. So evaluate this, too, before you interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u178	It's true. There's been a change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u179	I have not been informed about this in the Bureau. And all the previous speakers have spoken on the basis of the normal time that I have written before me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u180	No, they didn't. All the rapporteurs have spoken for 15 minutes, which is the normal time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u181	Anyway. Here you go. Go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u182	I won't be long. Two, three more minutes to finish. I now come to the question of the choice of directors. Are you serious? Do you know any system where the supervisor is chosen by the existing one? And what are we finally promoting with this provision, which is what it is doing on the substance? It keeps the mandate, of course, weakens the objective criteria and gives one third of the rating to the opinion of the existing ones. In other words, it promotes trade union practices in the clearest way. Who's going to be elected director? The most loved one. He who usually does all the favors.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u183	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u184	Oh, yeah, yeah. We know how these systems worked elsewhere. But here we need useful managers. We don't want pleasant managers. And since education has been afflicted by poorly understood trade union practices, I am very afraid that this is exactly what you are reinstated in your own particular way. For the timeline I will have the opportunity to place myself on Tuesday. That is where I will agree with you and Mr Fortsakis that in any case it is not the lawmaker's job to set the timetable. But the way in which we think and understand what our children should be taught is completely obsolete and generally entirely dependent on the human potential we have and not the reverse. So we choose what our children should be taught on the basis of how many teachers we have and not on the basis of what knowledge our children really should have. In conclusion, we are all witnessing a total discount of values, a discount of excellence, of speech, of progress, which is disastrous for the new generation. And since the Deputy Minister is also a poet, I found a poem of you, Mr Minister, not of the inappropriate - because there is also some inappropriate - but of the proper things he says: "Tourging from their own glacier, their first crying, the tribulation of the discount." We, therefore, and not only ourselves, but overall civil society will not allow you to make a discount on education and react. And it will also react to this new generation, which neither wants to tourist nor weep in the tribulation of discounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, and in particular fellow Members of Parliament, I would like us to come to an agreement because the President-in-Office cannot take a walk on the basis of his own perception of time. And I want to know how to manage the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u186	It's a deal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u187	It's a deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Petrakos, excuse me very much. I went up to the Chair and the times I have before me are the ones appointed by the Rules of Procedure. Obviously there will have been another agreement that I have not been informed about. But now I want us to agree to know how to manage the time. Well, the deal that has been made and which I don't know, what time does it set?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u189	The normal, twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u190	Six minutes, the parliamentary representative, three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u191	It's like a regular bill, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u192	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u193	Here you go, Mr. Petrako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, because we have agreed that the bill will continue on Tuesday - at 12.00 p.m. - we will have a debate on the articles and the votes will take place by 19.00 p.m. - we have agreed that the time should be the one provided for in the normal procedure rather than in the urgency procedure, for the Members of Parliament and for the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u195	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, on personal grounds, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u197	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u198	I should first like to thank Mr Mitsotakis for demonstrating my definition of dialogue, that he does not care about dialogue, namely how he speaks with each other. Repeat what has been said all this time with an inaugural kick he gave a few months ago, referring to communism and a number of similar things and saying that in this capacity I should not be in the position that I am. So I thank him for confirming my definition. I thank him for giving me the opportunity to clarify something that is important, because this naughty has been released, developed and established in relation to the notion of 'excellence', as was said at the edge of the speech in the programming statements and that phrase has been made in a allegedly mediocrity of praise. We are not in favour of modesty, Mr Mitsotakis, nor I nor anyone within SYRIZA. The moderate view of it around you, see it in your own spaces, see it in what is happening throughout this country's history in recent years and talk about moderation and non-modernity again. On good and bad school and excellence: we went to the same school. As long as I was there the school was excellent. I don't know how it's done now, I haven't had much contact since. And it was excellent for this reason: Because - and apparently as in every school there were good and bad students - somehow all the good students at that time cooperated, because the issue was not who would be the first to get the best grade, but how to solve the problem. I remember hours, since you put me in this - I will not abuse time - to talk on the phone with many classmates - and they and I - about how the exercise of geometry will be solved and not everyone hiding their own thoughts about the exercise so that they can come out first in front of the teacher. Teacher and school did not encourage this form of competition. How we went through solving the problem, which is the main and the competition for who will first solve the problem in starch, is the history of neoliberalism in a word. And on communism: thank you for a third reason, therefore, for wanting to be recorded in the Minutes of the House - an article of my own entitled 'Seven K'. If you read the entire article and not just the last sentence, you would see the link between Parliament, society, movement, party, state and communism. And because it disturbs you, it seems, the word communism - I am honored by the word - I have to say to you: Communism for me, for Marx, for all this movement, regardless of the versions, the failures, the disasters and all the other things, says something very simple, which would cause you to disagree: general freedom, universal justice, stop man-made by man. If you disagree on this, which I believe you deeply disagree, we should discuss it again on another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Minister. Let us get together, ladies and gentlemen, for the time being. Parliamentary representatives will be speaking for twelve minutes and colleagues will speak for seven minutes under the Rules of Procedure without urgent procedure. Mr Christos Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. A basic principle for us, dogma if you want, is that health, education, culture are the unbroken tripartite for which the state must ensure that our people develop, progress and prosper. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You are also talking about Da Capo. You don't need to be here alone. I continue: The protection of this trippage, their public character, make them the primary task towards the people's community of a national people's state, the state that I look forward to and for which the Golden Dawn is fighting for. We must ask the question of the reason for today's morbid public education. Question: Do we need such training? Is the reasons why we assume that we need its present form or the forms and framework of a law of the last 40 years? Education is a parameter of the general framework of education for our people. And as far as education is concerned, the educational system, as this place has known in recent years, has not been or will not be satisfactory and efficient for a simple reason: for the reason that this system cannot provide young people with what it falsely promises them, namely training them. Have you wondered, like you and me, what the school trains, especially high school, you or your children? In Mathematics, who of this Chamber remembers sufficiently some mathematical theorem that they taught him at school, in addition to the basic numerical acts or the preamble of the theory? No one, of course, except those involved in scientific and professional sciences now associated with mathematics. The same applies to natural sciences, as to philology and classics. No one is able to remember the hundreds of pages that he had to learn out of the night, struggling, fighting. And at the end of the scripture, I never understood what is needed in the middle man and in the daily struggle of his life all these knowledge considered so important that the corresponding lessons as a primates, against the secondary ones, perhaps for us more important courses, such as Music, Gymnastics, Economics, Artistics, all that characterized our ancient ancestors, all that shaped free and thoughtful citizens. With the present educational system school is not a cell of creation as it should, rather than a factory, a line of production, a chamber of torture, where the damocles of curfew material and the hunting of time level all learning concepts. Our children are a number of their machine, an exam code and a computer code, with no future, no vision. Time in school today is wasted time, time lazy and boring, killing the spirit, cleaning up the body, learning the young man in fugitives and addicting him to lurking. This school, let's tear it down! This harmful and useless school, we don't want it! We need to build in place a really new, a really Greek school, a school with vision and perspective to free our children's time, so that the innate revolution of youth in the context of the donor "sames" is channelled to learn our children's Greekity, to learn to exercise their body and soul in the struggles, in the album, in sport, in solidarity, in life, in nature. This also protects us by Pericles Giannopoulou, to learn the most important thing, to form their souls with the beauty of the nature and the Greek landscape. That was, it is and remains for the Greek tribe the greatest teacher to activate its endless and creative powers. All this requires radical restructuring, not only of the educational system, but of the state itself. It is not only the few, characterized by some graphic, Greek-centered teachers, who are insisting even today on following the scripts of heroic older teachers, teachers who loved their function and with faith and care, who have translated knowledge, admiration and love for their homeland, for God, for man, for knowledge and for science to children. This was the case, unlike today's teachers of our youth, who are the slaves of the divisional party and the trade unions, the underhands of the "blue" or "red" ethnic-denominated propaganda, the organs of a system that deliberately cultivates the semi-education and disorientation of the Greek population from what they truly, even instinctively, even first-class believe. In fact, in their overwhelming majority, people who, by snatching ten arches, enter the university, remake their vines, collect the money of the Greek people from various programs, exploiting their respective connections with party mechanisms and with all those who ruled forty years the place. That's why every time we talk about changing law in education, they all rise up and drag parents and children together, with a view only to increasing their allowances and guaranteeing their achievements. Whose possessed? That's not their job! And I wonder here: why are these gentlemen getting up with this draft law today? Will they strike and mobilize for the bill we're discussing today? You'll finally wonder what we're asking for from the educational system. We nationalists are the ones who have supported, and we support ideology, free education for all Greeks and at all levels. We support the creation of an educational system that will give all Greek women equal opportunities to develop their separate spiritual and physical abilities according to their gradients and interests. We want Greek birds to get a taste - if you like - of all the sciences, at all levels of education system, primary and secondary education. The system that exists today will, unfortunately, continue to exist and will only take the responsibility of selecting the young man's scientific interest from high school and from there to university, with a view only to the least possible effort. It is important for today's news that what we call "take the paper", the rest of it, let Daddy's state friend take care of it. So we must break the clientele system of educational institutions where you are selfish, lazy, with many peculiarities in the majority of teachers produce every year thousands of lazy and selfish scientists, directing them to the path of unemployment and the best of them on the street of the hostile. Therefore, a strategic planning, a redefinition of the needs of this place, not only to scientists, but also to craftsmen, professionals and in the light of the country's visions, potential and prospects of development and economic progress, is necessary. But in order for all this state, the people, the nation itself should have goals and visions. The governments of politicians have fed and nourished with the sweat and soul of the Greeks, politicians who have just studied, but have never worked in their lives, politicians who spend their time in the Kolonaki and Glyfadas and have not experienced, but have also known the real problems of the people and are interested only in the personal interest or - if you like - and discipline in the party mantle. They are interested in flattering the voter and good report of the embassy. This is important, with regard to the national approach and, of course, with regard to the national interest. The question of education is therefore not possible and should not be considered and resolved isolated and fragmented. It is a turning of a vicious circle in which civilization, dependence policy, false dilemmas, old enslaved and young enslaved in the generation of the Polytechnic. No, ladies and gentlemen, they do not create, promote, and that is not the way the nations are happy. We, the Greek nationalists, the nationalists of the Golden Dawn, believe in the powers and capabilities of our proud people, believe that in this place and in this people it deserves a better tomorrow, tomorrow of a healthy free, optimistic youth, youths with objectives, personal and individual integration, but also of national and overall objectives. We, who are the ones who put the "we" above "I", see in this context the question of education, a education that will not produce the free slave of the new era, the new monumental age, but will offer and create a free Greek citizen. We want national orientation in education, far from all sorts of internationalist doctrines - right and left - which have been imposed on it. Free admission and study at TEIs and TEIs for those who wish to do so. Direct absorption of masters in each industry and special care for all graduates. Foreign studies should be conducted for postgraduate training with scholarships and not with uncontrolled production of dubious degrees in order to break down the phenomenon of scientific genocism. In conclusion, education must be geared to what the Constitution demands. Article 16(2): "Education is a basic task of the State and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks, the development of national and religious consciousness and their modulation to free and responsible citizens". And I'm asking, does this bill serve the constitution's check? Are you Hercules of the Constitution, too? Are you from the constitutional arch? To tell you this grievous neologicism, with which we have been falsified by the well-known constitutionalist Vaggelis Venizelos. But it seems that only we nationalists are really defending legitimacy and the Constitution, because, among other things, we want to respect Article 16 of the Constitution. So we want the benefit, the true, the Greek one. And these truths - you know - we say them without any self-interest, we say them here in this Chamber, defending the people's interests and the national interest, as we mean. These are truths we have paid and paid for. Some of us were detained eighteen months in prison. Some others continue to be held. So, hypocrisy, we leave them for others, for those who do genocide - they are now absent from the Chamber - in the various monasteries, they lighten the lamps and among them they blasphemy asymmetrically, for those who willingly opened the fertile ferry, who are supposedly working for a new Greece, namely the Islamized Monument Greece, where the Greeks, in every corner of our country, will listen to the muezine from the minarets, the Greeks who will experience a new Turkish domination. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to add this because this is of symbolic importance. It has a symbolic character for this group which is absent and for many Members, if they hear it, it will be useful, especially now, at the time of various problems. From work by Penelope Delta entitled: "More than anything, what we lack is moral weight. That is why I am among so many men who sacrifice their principles as nothing in the material interest, afraid to say their opinion, to preach their faith. That is why, like herds, we all turn from the side of the strongest, and let us not appreciate him, let us consider him even dishonest." They are also defending urban education in this Chamber and not national education. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting and will fight for free national Greek education. We will fight against the Islamization of our country. What is happening now is that it has an ethnic perspective, supported by the New Democracy and the PASOK, now also supports SYRIZA and any objections from the ANEL side are pretexts. They're not red lines, they're pink ribbons. So Samaras gave the mosque, and Tsipras raises the plot. We say 'no' and you all know that we have the overwhelming majority near us the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on the basis of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, a request has been made for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill: 'Urgent measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education' by fifteen fellow Members of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and five educational attendants from the 3rd Caterina Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, Parliamentary spokesman for the River, Mr Antigone Lyberakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think the real question raised by this bill, but also by the answers that the Prime Minister gave this morning to Prime Minister Stavros Theodorakis on educational issues, is whether we are interested in going forward or whether it is in the interest to go back to education. So, do we want to make the changes we need and increase opportunities for people more or do we want to go back to a previous situation, which perhaps some people think was better? On the individual points, I would have very much to note. I won't be tempted. I should just like to say a word about the institution councils, because the Prime Minister has also referred to it, without having been asked by Mr Theodorakis. I would also like to say from my personal experience as an elected member of the Panteion Foundation, before I resign and change my profession, that the feeling I had was that this institution was created to have a second pole of balance, transparency, control and, above all, extroversion within the University. I think that's the thing, that's the point. If the Ministry of Education believes that it was not working properly, it would be very nice to discuss it when the many issues and dialogue, etc. I did not understand, however, that the objectives of extroversion, transparency control and withdrawal are maintained. He said that it was a cover for university tuition, which I believe is not a very precise answer, but not a corresponding one, of what we would expect at least. The second issue is the issue of eternal students and students or deletions, on the other hand. Other Members have said so earlier about the cost. The Ministry's line seems to be this: First, it does not cost people with an open school horizon and, secondly, it offers opportunities to the weakest. As regards the first, that it does not cost - and other colleagues have been mentioned before - it is true that it does not have a particular financial cost, but it has an educational cost. And it has educational costs, because it's not the same thing to learn a science, anyway, within four or five years, with the sequence of courses and, if you want, participation in the educational process, like breaking it in thirty or forty or fifty years. The argument is not what Mr Fortsakis said, that when you enter the university there is a science, and when you go out another one, if you expand, because in the end, if it were a problem, all the people who normally end their degree would have it. Surely there's an issue of upgrading knowledge and skills. I think the biggest problem is that you learn otherwise if you spend a lesson every three years, than if you spend six, eight lessons a year. It's a different kind of degree. That's the cost, that it lowers the degree, because a degree has the same shape, either you got it in a hundred or you took it in four years, and that's at the expense of the rest. Now for opportunities, I would like to say that we understand and really think it is an important issue for people who have an upside down, a misfortune not to be punished by the loss of the student status, but not the children of the poor families. Please, left-wing people tell us that the children of poor families have a lower educational performance and then the children of the more prosperous and left-wing families come - and offend them, from above - telling them that 'because we love you, we downgrade you the criteria and the basis and allow you to go to school because you obviously can't'. I understand the need for a second, third, centimetre of opportunity, but assembled: a study break, a relaunch, in a way acceptable to the institution in which they are studying. On the question of the selection of training staff, what we on the Potami, which we read about it, is that the importance of pre-service is increasing, which is objective. It has nothing to do with how a person accumulates pre-service experience. Others accumulate it with grace, others with cynicism. I do not see why pre-service is necessarily in favour of people, of the wise - let us say - the director. These measures also make the role of teacher voting more important. I want to make this absolutely clear for ever. We have no problem with the participation of teachers or with the participation of workers in general or in participatory forms. We think that if they work in a proper context, they can be very enriched and the quality of the service provided and the quality of working life, but also of the quality of the climate within the school. We believe, however, that this process of training officials must be motivated and inspired. People, i.e. people, who will push teachers, students and students to change the way they worked until then, because we aim for a better school, a better education, a better result. By simply having the mirror of the preferences of today's teaching staff, you may not end up in the best way. I would like you to think about it for the time of dialogue when it begins. I would also like to refer to experimental and standard schools. I understand that the debate is taking place at different levels of removal. I have tried very hard to understand the logic of the draw as a method of entering experimental schools. To tell you the truth, I understand the logic that the Ministry, the educational system, should test innovative or alternative systems in a random and representative sample. But the draw doesn't guarantee the random and representative sample. Allow me to say that, if that were the case, then there would be a lot of things. Statistical science, however, tells us that the representative sample must obey certain principles. If the Ministry does that, we will be prepared to discuss it. In other words, I 'weight the results of the draw so that there are so much percentage of the social type of family, so much of national origin, so much of the educational level of parents. There's a lot of ways to fix the shape. But do it really genuinely and representative and then, really, I could understand the difference between experimental and standards and the logic of experimental. Finally, we understand very well when you say that 'we are bringing some urgent and fragmentary measures to education, to different levels and that they are not coherent, nor are we telling you that they are coherent, but they need to be urgent and therefore, as such, you have to deal with them'. In this Mr. Baltas was a stimulant. The problem, however, is that even when one faces a fragmentary problem with a fragmentary measure or with a group of fragmentary measures which are urgently needed, it shows the spirit and approach. And I fear that, while we are really waiting for it to be time for this great dialogue to be opened, where everything will be discussed in terms of education with the right procedures - and I hope with the best possible results - I believe that the government at the moment or rather better the head of the Ministry of Education seems to be responding to the urgent issues in a way that it is looking at in the past, and that is what I think it should be of concern to us. We have the feeling that the line 'do not change anything, we will dismantle it'. If one is super satisfied with the situation of things in education, one really must fear changes, even small ones, because the waters may be shaken. I do not think, however, that any one of us is honestly and no matter how much we fight and if we do the best we can to help those who are involved in this area, we are still not satisfied with the results. It takes a little more systematic and institutionally. So we don't like it when the Ministry of Education's political leadership in the urgent, current and fragmented answers us with a dry "no, we don't go forward, no, we go back". Finally, I would like to remind you, Mr Ministers, that the progressive conquest of yesterday is the maintenance of today and perhaps tomorrow's reaction. It doesn't matter what was progressive when we were young and young. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, my colleague. The PASOK Parliamentary Representative, Mr Dimitris Kremastinos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, this morning an entire issue was raised, because the draft law entitled 'Emergency measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education' on the road became urgent, and the urgency was urgent and protested by all the governments of this House that we do not have time to discuss it. You can see in all the wings of the House how interesting there is for the debate. I'm just saying that. I also have to point out that the relevant Minister, Mr Kourakis, who is rightly present and has competence, has not answered or spoken so far, after he has made his criticism of the leader of PASOK or the parliamentary representatives of the parties, and they have reacted, he has not even listened to all the Members of Parliament and he has left too. So you realize that the debate, which is so interested in the entire Greek society, is self-evident. I would not see it having the same picture if they were called on a TV broadcast in the morning, where one really disapproves one another and, in fact, democracy is affected in the way that one Member is downgrading and they are all willing to attend. I ask why we are here and it is not a television camera because, in fact, the interest is what we are going to show outside the world and not what we are going to talk about in here. You must know that, with five hundred years or more of parliamentary history, Parliament of England does not allow direct transmission from Parliament, as is done with us. This is because, in their view, it wants to protect the level of debate within the House. A quote shows the television that everyone decides to give together. However, there is, in a way, no picture that we want to give to the world, which is not the real picture of the House, as is at the moment when the debate is taking place. To get to the point, I would remind the Minister, without wishing to make personal criticism, because I myself was a minister, without having been elected a Member of Parliament in the past, that the House is particularly sensitive to the extra-parliamentary ministers - and rightly so - because Members rightly demand more respect. Of course, in Greece, we will not discover the powder. Why am I saying that? Because the whole debate is about who's more good and who's more bad. And when we talk about education, we won't find out what the best system is. The best system is what UNESCO and UNESCO give an evaluation of the best schools. So when we want to decide whether directors should be elected by the current or by the heads of state, then we should have the debate, on the basis of the data: in what schools we find best in Europe today, we are elected by the current ones, to which of the heads - I mean the above-mentioned ones - and why one system is better than the other. Therefore, instead of "Byzantine" here for hours whole and every party in the opposition when it comes to the government bringing its own system, let's see what happens in Europe, if anything, not to say another country and I get misunderstood. Let us see what happens in the European Union, where we belong. Unfortunately, the choice of the above - and I speak from my university experience - has the seed of the transaction. At the university, the president or dean elected must speak with his lower and with the groups within the university. He has to collect votes to be elected in this grade. If you see who is elected, you will find that most of their university life do so in administrative positions than in research or teaching posts. That's because they're actually creating these crusts. So I ask: is there any university in Europe who chooses the president of the department or the dean of his own? This was done to us because it was the only way to implement the 1982 framework law. Why? Because, the professors of the headquarters, most of whom were from the dictatorship, were the ones who had to implement the law and there was no chance they could do so. That is how this 'academic alteration' has become, as I call it. This was the result of the complaints made by the candidates - now Mr Fortsakis enters the Chamber and listens to me - on takeovers. If Mr Baltas wants his name, I can give it to him at the Ministry of Education. That's the situation. And the PASOK, which was the party that brought that law, was the one that found both the weakness of the law and caused its change. However, that change - as you know, Mr Kourakis - took place after a two-year debate. So if we now want to reintroduce the old ones, at least have a one-year debate with all concerned, not only with those who have an interest in education. And look at what's going on in Europe, America, China, all over the planet. There are no universities anywhere where seniors are elected from the highest in administrative posts. Tell me a university! As far as schools are concerned, however, I am more tolerant in the sense that managers who, for example, do not have the same authority as directors and directors of departments do not have the same competence. Because they don't take stadiums on middle-education teachers. So evil is less, at least at this point. But why are you in a hurry and why these matters urgently come? Why don't you have a consultation with everyone? And, above all, call on other foreign states to tell you their experiences so that you do not go to a system that has been condemned in practice. Don't tell me that it's right to resign a dean who's been beaten by the students - I'm saying it well, Mr. Fortsaki? - and I'm talking about the largest university in Greece, the Kapodistrian. The Rector quit, the students beat him. We were respecting teachers when we were students. We didn't go with the asylum to get into the university space and burn down the seats we were sitting on. We didn't do that, even though the asylum was a sanctuary, the fight was a fight. Don't let the police enter the asylum, I'm with you. Ideas defend themselves. But we didn't fire the university. That's not supposed to change, is it? Were all wings to resign after wood? Should the teachers' offices be built so the teachers can't get in there? Some of those who built them may also be MPs in today's Parliament. This is the situation in universities. It's not real. It's realistic. Let us look at one - one issue, because it is a lot of issues. I also said to the committee that, when we say 'first time on the left' and when we say progressive left, we mean 'competitiveness'. As I said in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, when one ends his school, he wants to be the best person to get better luck. Is there someone who wants to be worse than his side? But when the 'holders and occupants' can send their children comfortably to the best universities in Europe, America and also Greece - some are very well - is someone who is poor and cannot send his child to a good school? Why can't there be a standard school in every district, in every county? So they don't want these kids to go abroad, with the needs we have today and go to institutes, Max - Planck, MIT in America and find a job? They do not want this today, where these economic conditions exist in the country and are suffering people, scientists? How will they be competitive if you do not give them a different education? Furthermore, as far as the issue bank is concerned, I am not in favour of the issue bank. But I am in favour of teaching and teaching material. In other words, when a teacher at a school does not teach all the matter, the child who comes out of this school is disadvantaged. The theme bank - which you could improve - forces teachers - to teach all the matter. Why, what are they going to tell the students when they come up with issues that are out of material and which the theme bank contains? What's your hurry? Shape it! Take the topic bank and do it better! Would you like me to go one step further? Put common topics on all high school via the Internet. You can do it and give it to yourself, that is, a committee. These things are self-evident. So, self-evident things can't be discussed in this House? Is it not possible, then, to deal with the current situation differently from the way that the world - if you like - imposes on us a economy? We may philosophically have different positions between us and each party, but unfortunately we are living on a planet where globalisation has prevailed. If, then, we want our children to play on equal terms with the rich children, we need the schools we are doing, which are currently trying to improve, to be better than private ones. But how will it be better if you do not set conditions for competitiveness? Is there another way? I don't claim infallible, but why this rush? I'm coming back to the bill, as you submitted it, as an emergency. Why this rush? After all, Mr Baltas said that there would be a framework law. All right, within the law-frame, put that in! Now you're bringing back. The other colleagues spoke of eternal students. I don't have the time, unfortunately, to expand. But why don't you put certain standards on eternal students? So one who's seventy years old could be a student? Theoretically he can't?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u205	What's the problem? What is lifelong learning?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u206	Lifelong learning? Can a ninety years old end his life as a student? I - okay - that I don't understand. In any case, if you want me to understand it, do a consultation! Lifelong learning is right, but that is another matter. In any case, do a consultation! I am not against and I understand the issue, but do a consultation. Why are you rushing me urgently to bring something that has been abolished? Bring it back again. But bring it in terms. Say that this student is obliged to spend a lesson every year, every two years, every three years, set a criterion. Is it possible for one student to be eighteen years old and to be up to ninety of the student? How do you see it? In any case, what I can see is that there is a rush on all issues and that rush you have to take care of it because it leads to a dead end. And this morning we heard the Prime Minister, who didn't say much or less that the other bill was not seen by all the bodies, the POSPE, the alpha, the beta. I have nothing to argue with him, but for two years they have been discussing it. This bill who talked about it and how long? Nobody. So let us look at these things right and look at education with more respect, especially basic and middle education, because that is the protagonist of higher education. I have the impression that the law will pass. The majority is given. But I hope that you will consider these issues and review them when you bring, as you are thinking, the famous education framework law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Athanasios Petrakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill has been taking place since this morning, highlighting things that are abundant to reality - let me say - and I will explain why I am saying it. It seems to me that this is even done by university teachers. We all know that the main aim of education is to develop the critical competence of pupils and to strengthen the values of democracy, freedom and social justice. I think it is my duty before I begin my position, Minister, to say that today's draft law on education is a signicant day, because one of the basic principles on which students must develop their democratic conscience is the fight against fascism and Nazism. The 8th and 9th of May brings to all democratic citizens where land a lasting reminder: On 8 and 9 May 1945 Nazism and fascism were defeated. Today, seventy years later, history must teach us all. As he pointed out yesterday in the German Parliament, at an event by the German left, Manolis Glezos, Nazism defeated him militaryly, but his ideology continues to fall on various points. It is all the responsibility of all of us, and above all of the teachers, to defeat both ideological and political Nazism. Seventy years after the flag of the people's liberation in Reichstag, our demand for German compensation and mortgages has become much more important. Seventy years after the motto "Never war! Never fascism!" acquires excellent timeliness. Our democracy cannot and must not tolerate the challenges of neo-nazis too. Today, Europe's responsibilities are becoming even greater. Nothing has been learned from the prevalence of fascism and Nazism, those who today do not see the causes of the rise of racist nationalist, neo-fascist and neo-nazi forces in Europe. That is why the President of the Group of the European Left in the European Parliament, Gabriel Chimer, stressed in the European Parliament: "Whoever does not worry about the humanitarian crisis in Greece, who wants to humiliate the Greek Government should stop talking about European and democratic values." Mr. Venizelos clothed the cloak of the great antimony. He told us what a bad guy HNPH, who voted for him, what a bad tax from the first euro, who voted for it and that SYRIZA will bring a third memorandum! Mercy, Mr. Venizelo! We will therefore inform you that our government is fighting and will achieve an agreement compatible with its programme commitments, even though the difficulties are great. We are optimistic and will reach a positive agreement. We are listening to the destructive scenarios of many, as well as many media, at this time. "Carbons", they say, "the treasure" of the negotiation. I want to remind all of them that a few weeks ago we were told about another issue. "Carbons", they said, the big energy agreement with Russia on the pipeline. There were headlines in large newspapers. I was expecting, then, that these people today would write on the first page the reality that was recorded yesterday. Not only are they carbons, but it turned out - despite what they were saying, and despite the irony and perpetuating of the Government's multidimensional active, peaceful foreign policy - all these Cassandras were disproved. Yesterday's confirmation, not from the Greek Government, but from the announcement by the Presidency of the Russian Federation, shows how reliable their scenarios are and on the major issue of negotiating these days. You will see that carbon is the catastrophe for the great energy agreement with Russia, which highlights Greece in a major energy hub and geopolitical player in the region. So you will see that the Greek Government, no matter how difficult it is, will achieve an agreement compatible with its planning commitments. I'm going to go through the bill now, Minister. This time I will agree with you, Mrs Lyberakis, on the main question. Indeed, the main question is whether we will go forward or backwards. But I didn't see any of those who put issues on the bill starting at the beginning. Where are we after five years of monumental policies in education? I think we will agree - and above all university teachers - that one of the objectives of education must be to reduce social inequalities. With the Memorandum policies, inequality declined or increased? The answer is that they've been exacerbated. A characteristic example is the black page in the history of education, which was the abolition of fifty specialties and the availability of two and a half thousand teachers of technical education. I mention this action to remember and see where we were until the day before yesterday. The previous government has ruled out - not to say the right expression'stored' - 20 000 children, who, in their vast majority, came from the poor families, which you say you are interested in. Some of these children were driven to private IEKs and colleges and because most of them had no money to pay, they were driven out of education. You have made two and a half thousand teachers available. With the previous bill and this bill, the government made its pre-election commitment and proceeded with the reintegration of the dismissal of the dismissal of dismissals, to enable thousands of children, especially the poor families, to obtain from the new school year some specialization through the public school. It enables children to stay in school and complete secondary education, reducing school leakage, which was one of the biggest problems of the education system in the five years of the Memorandum Policies, where thirty thousand children - if we see those who go in and those who go out this year - were lost on the way to public school. Should we also remind ourselves of the other Memorandum policies, so that we do not move away from the reality in which we are in? Firstly, public funding has been reduced by 35% since 2009 and was planned to go to 47% by 2016 if the Memorandum Governments were to stay. Secondly, in primary and secondary education, more than two thousand schools were closed and with them the support structures, which were for poor children, namely aiding teaching, school libraries and other structures in the educational system, were abolished. Thirdly, ten thousand Deputy Professors were fired at both levels. Fourthly, the annual earnings of teachers were reduced by 45% for neo-definitionists. It hardened the educational system in high school even further. The famous topic bank was created, in order to "find" the word - and also the disciple world - and leave high school. Do you know what the report was about the famous bank of subjects and, indeed, by a former minister who was also an educator? He said attributes that some students in fact have problems because they are of weak social strata and prevent learning as a whole at school. That was basically the central idea of justification, as to why they brought the topic bank. Result? Let those students leave school. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So the students should leave school. That was your intention to harden up for students to leave. And you come now and tell us - you found the new slogan - that we are against excellence and the minor effort. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not against excellence and in favour of a minor effort. We are in favour of students and students making the greatest effort, cultivating their talent and philanthropy. We have a vision - and this is our big difference with you - for an excellent school for all and not a few excellent schools for selecting. This is the basic, fundamental difference in our understanding of the perceptions of all those who blame us for excellence, for the standards, for all of this. This is the basic and qualitative difference. In this direction we will remain consistent, because the main is - I repeat - that there should be an excellent school for everyone and that pupils can become excellent, through and through support structures, and that there should not be the few excellent schools in which the ruling class will be reproduced. This is a basic democratic principle. Let's see, indeed, who goes forward and who goes back, I think we should all think that after the Migration and the decisive contribution it had to the collapse of the junta the student movement at that time was a terrifying democratic revolution from the bottom of education. This democratic revolution in post-population, the neoliberal revolt - with all that you have done in the past five years - wanted to turn it back in the 1950s and 1960s. So we are here to go ahead in order to develop education, education for all, education for the whole of the people. Thank you. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard in this Chamber from a political portion that the country's democratic tradition bears horrors, rituals and, in fact, we must lie about it, because it does not run counter to the wishes of the status quo and the system. It creates stumbling blocks in the system and in this respect it is teratogenic, as it balances society. Some political portions may not want to balance this society. Maybe they don't want this society to heal its wounds gradually, but it's stable. Since, however, we are talking about education, about some monstrous forms, some monstrous forms, some of which have caused precisely this sudden system of education, multiple mergers and school closures - over two thousand - with redundancies - deactivating educational staff - more than two thousand, especially in terms of technical education - through reductions in education resources, with the reductions in wages for teachers, through the suppression of an entire educational system through an alleged system of assessment in the direction of further closure and mergers, when, in parallel to this same educational system, the state does not provide supplies to either its human resources or its structures, in order to improve itself. So, he comes in forefront to lie about it, assessing the supposedly inactivating it, so that he can do exactly this human resource - which some are cut off for his excellence or for the best part of it - to inactivate it, so that it cannot be diffused to the rest of society, that is to say, have the advantage of better education only the few. This is of interest to the system, because in societies, which denies and concentrates the educational system in its best quality only in specific, it is beginning and again the same company is in the same company, and it can never raise the head of another social group, from whatever political space it comes from. It is wrong for people to think that they are identified - the social groups and the dispersal of these with political spaces absolutely. Oh, no. There is a stratification at the social level in various political areas, where, of course, they are stricken and stricken, for reasons of customer or traditional, and even those who are supposed to act and believe certain parties, those who lead the parties themselves draw up education programmes such as this, which further inactivate them and immobilize them in a permanent passive situation. The draft law on the reopening of the structures of the technical high school, with the previous draft law on public administration, re-establishing and re-introducing the teachers of the technical high school, is precisely trying to satisfy the demand for low education, especially at social and economic level, groups, the weakest, who wanted a strong and diffuse vocational education throughout society. It is trying to satisfy it, and we very much welcome it. It attempts, through the very means of this sore, to balance the system educationally, not to be disabled in one direction. A lot has been said about the theme bank. In fact, this was linked to the possibility of improving the quality of the education provided. Some may be urging another state and society and not realizing that they really have left behind very deep economic, social and psychological wounds. There are social groups excluded or inclined to be excluded from the good of education. Some people are talking about Article 16 of the Constitution. Except that Article 16 of the Constitution, in order to triple and penetrate society, requires the joint legislator, ladies and gentlemen, to do what you are doing, to try to spread education to the lowest even social strata, because high social strata, anyway, have their own contact and own potential. It is clear that the human resources sector is the greatest potential available to our country, not only because we believe that we are a gifted people, but because every country that wants to respect itself and aspires to having prospects of productive reconstruction and development elevation must definitely invest on education, both at secondary and higher education levels. Therefore, some who have created an endless migration flow of Greek citizens, and indeed of the best part, of the scientific party, to the outside, are not entitled to speak in this Chamber, and they are too much to read - in quotes - the executive and legislative power of this country in the direction they would like. It is obvious that crocodile tears poured on the altar of school standards are merely pretextically. School models serve a special and special purpose. It is likely that, in order to satisfy various specific criteria or demands for education, some life will have to be maintained or another political time will have to be established and one in each county will have to be established. But what is crucial - and we very much welcome it - is the multiplication of experimental schools and, on the other hand, the dissemination of all these teachers, who can serve a better quality of education in all schools. Good education, quality education cannot be the privilege of anyone, because that is the only way that society can and must invest in a better future. You can't know in advance who he is who after some years of training will return you to an added value in your production process. How will you know that? So you have to spread a higher level of education throughout society, so that you can hope that some of them will return exactly what you expect, the clumsiness of your spear through the science linked to the production process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Return me to begin with the disgusted courage of the special speaker of the criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn, who spoke about the danger of Bolshevikism. Of course, they have this risk and have it for two reasons: firstly, because it is the future of humanity, and secondly, because this week from 1 May to 9 May is a week very rich in historical events, particularly 1 May 1945. It is the day when the flag of the hammerhead, the red flag, the flag of the red army, the banner of the first Socialist State of the Soviet Union rose triumphantly in Reichstag, in the heart of the cooling beast and was forced on May 9 to sign the defeat agreement. This victory of the Soviet Union against Nazi Germany and its allies, led by Stalin, was achieved thanks to the role of Soviet labour power in the creation and organisation of the Soviet Union's defensive armour, the advantages of the socialization of the means of production and the central design, the leading role of popular masses, led by the working class, the role of the Communist party as a revolutionary labour leadership. And this is the huge historical lesson for the present, but also for the future of the revolutionary movement. As a JRC, we are proud that we have been the inspirationist, inspired, organizer and main blood donor of our people's great ambiguity. Despite mistakes and weaknesses we are inspired by them, so that we can, with greater maturity, deal with the tasks of the present and the future and, in particular, become more effective in our historic mission. Through these experiences we know very well that Nazism, which is trying to raise a head, can only be faced with the development of class struggle. That is why we call on the workers, the youth, to condemn and isolate the neonazi criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn decisively. It is the vehicle of the reactionary ideology of well-known national socialism. It is the vehicle of intolerance, darkness and racism. It has as its model Hitler, the fascist regimes that have blooded peoples and humanity, security forces and the junta of 1967-1974. It promotes vulgar anti-communism, hatred against the working people's movement. He organises and performs criminal acts at his expense. It is associated with parts of the state mechanism and especially of the repression forces. He's intercepted with mafia and other criminal circuits. It is directly supported by parts of the chapter, i.e. it is the murderous hand of the system and the system needs it. On the other hand, Mr President, the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy with a disguised courage dared to speak of a party state established by the SYRIZA and ANEL government, forgetting that their own children, when they were in the government, were placed in the key positions. Of course, SYRIZA - ANEL does the same today. Their kids put in key positions. But it is not just this nerve of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. That's a pit. What is the real enthusiasm, is the class hatred, which he feels and with which he has reached the point of mocking all these young people and the young people who are fighting. Of course, we understand that. He scares them the pattern of the student fighter, the student fighter and student, the agonist who doesn't bend the head, who fights for a better future for him and his family. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy wants him to be tempted and fatal. He wants the new generation to conspire at the sub-culture party organized by the DPRK. This class hatred was expressed by the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, on the grounds that the government promotes a bill that brings communist equality. Of course, he gave the Minister the opportunity to say that he really wants communism. But in practice, Minister, it is clear that, unfortunately, you are working so that you can vomit this system and satisfy its needs. You are giving life to a system that is in deep crisis, so that you can get it out of the deadlock, transferring to the future, that is, in the Monday's presence, the case of overthrowing this system. In other words, you cultivate defeat and fatalism in the labour movement. Of course, the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman knows very well that this bill does not call into question the class character of education and does not have that intention - we are saying it clearly - the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to question it. He has no intention of questioning him and he does not want to question him, of course, if he is going to reverse reality and speak of free education. What free education, when tens of thousands of students and students are forced to give up their studies and when school-leaving and high school education is a general scheme, as a means of enabling the young person to join the university? Really, gentlemen of the New Democracy, does all the children start from the same starting point? Do all children have the same possibilities? So, what do you want? You just want this situation to remain unchanged, that is to say, the whole situation which is exacerbating even more the class barriers to education. We say this clearly, that with this draft law on urgent measures for primary, secondary and tertiary education the anti-educational arrangements of the previous governments are being pursued and implemented. He's building on it. In other words, it remains the law of Arvanitopoulos on the new high school, which strengthens modulation within high school and turns it even more decisively into an endless examination centre, at the expense of any remaining general education, with the sole task of preparing for the entry of students to the HEIs and TEIs. It turns it into an endless exam. On the same line, the bill is also on the EBRD. In the JRC's opinion, it adopted its strategy of adapting education to the needs of the capital, continuing certifications, the disconnection of a profession's degree. This remains a strategy that the ESDP wants to be schools for the "children of a lower God", to be schools for the early separation of pupils from the age of 15, for their early and informed training for the needs of capital. The Communist Party of Greece, as its rapporteur pointed out, considers the bill, particularly from the point of view of the strategy, which it serves and continues, as well as for what it leaves undisturbed and which, of course, does not review the legal arsenal of previous co-determinations. We do not say that, because it is only three months since the government took over the logic of 'all or nothing', but because we know very well that this legislative framework will remain intact. We have no delusions, we will not think it is a matter of time, Mr Ministers of Government. On this basis, then, and the Communist Party of Greece, as its rapporteur pointed out, we will vote against this bill in principle, while voting in favour of these regulations, which were found fairly, in our view, in the aim of the movement, such as the abolition of the bank of subjects, the degree of promotion and dismissal, the re-entry of teachers and the re-registration of so-called scofficy eternal students. And we say that the bill does not question this strategy, because this strategy we want to highlight, ladies and gentlemen. What strategy? That education, in the urban system, does nothing but reproduce the principles and values of the exploitation class, the bourgeoisie, to reproduce the exploitation of the system and its ideology, to distort history and to cultivate darkness for the children of the popular strata. So, it is the main feature of this building in education that class barriers to education are the continuing deterioration of content, both from school to university and the restoration of general education, as well as the overall scientific object through the acquisition of fragmentary, sporadic skills. And that's normal for the ruling class to want, 'cause it's just got to keep up with what type of worker it needs today. It requires a consumable worker, an opportunistic worker, who is going from opportunity to work. And of course, above all, the strategic choice of the bourgeois class for education is the full subjection of education, research, the needs of capital and business groups. Not only in terms of research and of the results of research, but even more so in terms of education to be subject to designs, so that the business groups themselves and the multinationals can define their curricula at universities and not only, Mr Ministers, because this is the European Union's strategy for 'Agenda 2000' for education. This, of course, the European Union's strategy does not call into question by SYRIZA, too, accepts this strategy - we appreciate as a JRC - will specialise and implement. The eruption and overthrowing of this strategy, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, and in the issues of education, go hand in hand with the need for more comprehensive breaches and overthrows, at the level of economy, society and power, with the working class and the allied social forces to take power, as well as the keys to the economy, to build a society that frees the man from the shackles of exploitation, but also from darkness. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of parliamentary representatives has been completed with Mr Karathanasopoulos. They all spoke, I think, in the comfort of the time they wanted and I thank them for their cooperation. We are going back to the list of speakers. The speakers today, until we close, are eight colleagues. He will speak for seven minutes each and we will finish the process today. Mr Ioannis Stephen from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education felt it necessary to introduce legislation on the selection of training staff at the end of their term of office. The present system of selection of school directors and school managers, a product of the post-political period with strong customer characteristics, was neither a worthwhile one, nor has it ever helped to cultivate a climate of cooperation and culture of collective perceptions in educational units. On the other hand, over the past twenty years, in particular, there have been mobilized criteria for selecting training managers, based on a bureaucratic perception, which each wanted to see handler and implement a government policy. What were these criteria? The scientific and pedagogical establishment of the candidate, his service status, personality and general composition. The latter two were assessed by a personal interview of the candidates, before a appointed Selection Board. And while the moleculosis for the scientific and administrative adequacy of the training staff, which was diverse at all times, was generally accepted by the educational community, the interview - which was considered by the legislature as the best way to establish the individuality of the candidate and to take into account some of his qualifications that are not mobilized - was also the selection criterion that was questioned and commented more than any other, since it was recorded as a monument of party arbitrariness in the consciousness of the educational community. Ladies and gentlemen, the responsible training staff have as their main task to coordinate and facilitate the educational and administrative work carried out in school units. Alone? Oh, no. Under Law 1566 the management bodies of a training unit are not only the directors, whom the whole discussion focuses on, but they are the teachers' association and the manager, which is one thing to be said. I stress this and I will tell you what it is for. Therefore, managers' seats should be placed in the educational establishments which, in addition to their formal qualifications, which are objectively mitigated - which is what this system is doing to vote on - are presupposed to have modern educational perceptions, democratic and impartial attitudes toward students, teachers, parents and to have skills of administration, coordination and communication. And how, ladies and gentlemen, can it be established whether or not these conditions are met during a short interview? It was an interview, held in the past by qualified majority members on the service councils, which in the past was used provocatively against coron for the choice of mainly party meetings, both from the New Democracy and from the PASOK. I will give you two examples: 2007, with a New Democracy government, the nerve was unbelievable. The interviews were held after candidate directors were invited to declare schools. It is not enough to place managers who wanted, take them to the schools they wanted, because they were then able to control the moleculosis on the basis of each director’s statement. Mr Mitafidis said: "I want to go to the first Thessaloniki". Well, they knew it. But the other colleague was saying, 'I declare it' and then he took a smaller molecules. And they have the courage to incur us. Because it's about nerves. In 2011 the good PASOK - which I do not see, left - improved the law and made a question table, Minister. It's a long time ago the question bank's method. Five days before the interviews, the questions and the answers were released in the pockets of the party "menu". No questions could be asked by the appointed members to the candidate directors. The result was appeals to the courts. And in many cases, the tables that had been posted fell. The fact, therefore, that the training staff were placed through a controlled process, which historically is unconvincing about its merits and has been discredited and rejected by the vast majority of the teachers of the class, led the Ministry's leadership to propose the participation of the training club of each school unit at around 33% in the manager's selection. World originality! You don't have it because the city of Helsinki chooses school managers in all schools with open procedures. Teachers vote - along with other procedures, which are similar to our own, but there are more complex - the managers. But there are schools in England, where there are also school councils, parents, etc. In America too many schools have the same procedures. However, we in Greece, too, had originalised. I will say that, of course, because it now sounds like a bad word to say 'unionist' in here, as if it were something. Let's decide to abolish trade unionism. In 1977, shortly after the dictatorship, the teachers of Thessaloniki, with an initiative of the then mayor Papadopoulos, gathered and asked to participate in the selection of their address. So for historical reasons alone, for the Minutes of Parliament, for the researcher of the future, I make the relevant reference. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Stefos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned reference, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what would be easier for the government? To maintain the current selection system or conflict with established perceptions? First one, of course. To maintain it, to appoint with the legislation in force the members on the selection boards, as the New Democracy and the PASOK did, mainly choose their own, "weaker" education children, just as these two parties did when they were in power. We don't. Why don't we do it? Because we deeply believe that the institution of selecting directors must change. We dismantle the interview and what are we doing in her place? We put the teachers' association at the heart of this process. Why don't we do it? Because we honor the teachers of the class, we respect them. We therefore want them to be involved in a process of change of the Greek school in the direction they should be. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u215	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u216	And tell me you, ladies and gentlemen: we trust these people for thirteen years, from kindergarten to high school, we trust their lives, their safety, their education. Can we not trust them to participate in a democratic process which, after all, accounts for 33% and replaces a terrible interview, for which nothing has been proposed here? Nothing has been proposed. They didn't tell us: Should we keep it? Shouldn't we keep it? I will tell you something else, because I am now abusing time. Is this the first time this system has been tested in schools? No, it's not a first time at all. For at least three years at least the Deputy Directors, who are the bodies of the school administration, have been elected, in exactly these procedures. I can assure you that there is not a single school in Greece, which has created a problem in this way. Be sure that, as the system is being tested for the next two years, there will be no problem at all. They are able to manage the part that involves a different function at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEVERIOS VENIZELOS", eighteen students and students and three teachers attending the Galatistas Halkidiki Municipal School. Dear friends and dear friends, welcome. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, Nikolaos Dendias, from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear and I say it to those who - I think not very few in this Chamber - want the success of the government, as we want the success of each government. But I can only say that the left-wing government, the left-wing government, is no longer surprised. This piece of legislation, in principle, on standards and experimental schools, for which a very large debate has taken place, regardless of the intentions - I would like to believe - of its authors, has been registered as a piece of legislation which is against excellence. And this is extremely bad for the whole of Greek society. Of course, the wording in the explanatory statement on the introduction of pupils does not help at all, which was mentioned by the rapporteur of the Group of the European People's Party, Potami, who says: 'Why this selected population is in no way a representative sample'. However, this argument is the completely wrong argument, because an accidental population is also not a representative sample. Anyone knows that. If we get 50 people from Syntagma Square, it's a random sample, of course, it's not a representative sample. If, then, the government wanted something else to do, it had to be much more careful because, apart from other things, this point is very important. The law mentions nothing about evaluation. I think the term is too devastated. There is nothing to set up the programme. The diligent and well-informed rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Fortsakis, put it. There is no promotional facility, I think, as a result of the principle of minor effort. I don't understand how else it can be interpreted. A colleague, who has made an example - I have not done so - will mention it tomorrow in his speech. He said that if in four secondary courses you have a 16, a 15, a 12 and a 11, without all the other lessons, you can spend time even if you have 4 or 5. I don't know if that's what we're trying to do. Of course, it was also noted by Mr. Fortsakis that the Ancient Greeks, by silence, are being expelled from the program. Eternal students even revive without rewrite. I have not understood the argument. Of course, the reference to lifelong learning I think has nothing to do with eternal students. Lifelong learning is a continuous modernization and improvement of knowledge and not an enduring process of learning, which can be acquired in four or five years according to the program. In general, I must tell you that, for the long time, we have been philosophical on the part of the ladies and gentlemen of the government, on the non-customs features of the present regulation, in relation to the customer past of the previous governments, on party arbitrariness, which has so far existed from the former governments, but now no longer exists with this 'lute' piece of legislation and a number of such legislation. Minister, in fact, the previous governments are not infallible, nor are the Government of New Democracy. In any case, every new government hopes to correct something wrong, not to return to a worse version in the past. If I may, then, ask about the issue that has been mentioned, the issue of selecting regional directors. Four hundred and fifty-two applications were lodged and thirteen were selected. Of the thirteen, 11 belong to SYRIZA, one belongs to ANELs and one is not placed. In particular, in order not to be vague - and I will not refer to names because they are of no importance - in the region of Attica the gentleman who was chosen had participated in the 'Life Force' vote, by Mrs Durus. In the region of Western Macedonia, the gentleman who was selected had participated in the combination of "We Change Age" by Mr. Mumulides, who was also supported by SYRIZA. In the Regional Unit of Ionian Islands, the one selected had participated in the combination of "Anassa" by Mr. Galatsatou, who -h of the miracle - was supported by SYRIZA. In the northern Aegean, he had participated in the 'Great Line' of the current member of the SYRIZA. Is that random? Is this a sign of the merits of the new government of social salvation? I'm not going to keep going so we don't consume time. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely say to you, at the beginning of the first days of the SYRIZA Government, I understood mainly from the outward behaviour of the Minister of Finance that this is a 'Gauche caviar'. I understand, however, from the legislation - and I refer to this piece of legislation, Mr Katrugalos's legislation, as well as the unbridled provision concerning Xeros - that this is where we are dealing with legislation which involves Balkan provincialism, and we probably have a left-wing anti-reformism before us. I'm really sorry because I've been following the left thought for years. The Left, regardless of our own huge ideological differences with her, has given the giants of the spirit to Greek spiritual life. Sholos, the Frenchman - if you like - and Chirimokos were very important people who spoke and wrote about the field of education. Even if the SYRIZA Government returns and looks at the writings of the PES's mountain government, it will find very important things and will not feel at all well for its current legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that before 1967, but also after 1974, on the part of the Communist Party, the slogan of the left youths was: 'First in courses, first in the race'. What's left of this slogan today? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that what happened was that we really tolerated the fall of the public university and we also tolerated, as a struggle at the university, the fight against intensification of education. Intensiveness was our enemy, our class enemy. Not to talk about the mid-term education, which, with enormous responsibilities of all, and of the Left, has been completely delivered to education. That's what we give our children.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u219	Is it the Left?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u220	I didn't say it was the Left. I said it was all our fault. But at least you who are now engaged in the new, can do better? Do you have any chance of bringing this type of legislation? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u221	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Honestly, I am telling you that I have also listened with caution to the Ministers and realised that the SYRIZA programme is as follows: First, they will have an urgent piece of legislation, after five - six months they will bear a less urgent piece of legislation. For these two, there will be no consultation and, finally, the political expression of SYRIZA will come to consultation after a year and a half as a framework law, which we will then discuss and then reform education in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in order to use the strange term, which I have heard from the Head of PASOK, Mr Venizelos, since it breaks - as we all hope in the next few days - your memorial virginity, how long do you think you will be ruling? How long do you think they have what you call'memorandum governments' to plan two and a half years? You already have four months in government and four months in government, your legislative work - I am sorry to say this - is not of any quality, not to say other things, which are not nice to hear in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, I still have the hope that the Left Government will also be able to offer something positive in its overall political dialogue in the country. I regret, however, that this legislation does not belong to this category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Photios Grass from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u224	Time is short, to develop such an important issue as education. That is why I will try, as much as I can, to concentrate on the issues which I wish to raise. I will start from the recent past, post-collection, because in the last forty years each new Minister of Education has been moving on to educational reforms, usually characterised by underfunding, by fragmentary interventions. There is also the following feature, that there was not a single student who started high school with a certain system and ended high school with the same. This is the characteristic of Greek education. However, the People's Association - Golden Dawn is characterised by political integrity. That is why we must confess to some positive interventions in this bill, such as relocating the teachers who have been made redundant, abolishing the theme bank, separating experimentally from the school standards. However, there are too many bad texts, because at a time when there are schools - ruins without courtyards, when students learn in underground, when there have been years that have not even been books - and I stress this, because many of them are heard about the new year - this bill only deals with meaningless and skin changes and, above all, with the - one would say - a change in guarding and restoring its own children. The most important thing is that it does not change what the previous systems had created, that is, it maintains the role of high school as a centre of preparation for the examinations - something purely technocratic - and leaves general education outside. At this point I would like to make the point, because a lot has been said about neo-communism and the communists have heard a lot of eloquences towards the Golden Dawn, so we need to resolve a few issues. Because, indeed, it is important: What philosophy will the new government follow in the educational section? There is something easy in this case. For we can judge from the secure and from the result. There have been two dominant ideologies in Europe over the last decades: Marxist and liberal, liberalist. So we can, from the point of view of what citizens each of them has achieved, judge what is the right thing to do. Starting with the Marxist ideology, we saw the collapsed countries. They took mafia, drugs, atheism and fornication. These were the results of Marxist philosophy, Marxist education. On the other hand, we have seen the liberal, 'good' ideology in the field of education, which has brought out citizens of Malthus, individualists and consumers. But he also made something else in the case of Greece: he also brought communists, who can curse Golden Dawn freely and say that we are "system chips", that we are financed by the capitalists, when they normally take state funding, even though in the Golden Dawn it is cut and let it be the third in the political power of the country. Golden Dawn considers education to be the foundation stone for an ideal society, and that is the logic that we would follow if we were a government. Education must nurture young people with the ideals of their homeland, religion and family. He must bring out new physical and spiritually healthy, to turn children into honest and moral citizens who want to make their society and their homeland and better. So the conclusion is this: both liberals and communists, under the hands of the Greek youth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. George Mavrotas from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. 'Discussion is a value for the Left'. I am not saying that, just a few hours ago, the Prime Minister said in this Chamber, and this dialogue is what we are desperately looking for in education, where we are going directly from the prologue to the epilogue, bypassing the dialogue that the Minister, Mr Baltas, spoke of earlier. We are talking today about a bill that changes the primary, secondary and access to higher education through the urgency procedure. This happened without public consultation - not even at opengov - and without dialogue with operators, but only with a pretextful five-minute hearing of everyone, where all we have heard was how surprised everyone is. They were all surprised, though? Oh, no! Only OLEME was fully informed about the contents of the bill, as if she suggested those changes. Let's start from the first chapter and change the system to the introductory exams. Mr Kourakis told us earlier that the new system gives more choice. I will tell you one of my personal experiences on this: my son gave me pan-Hellenic last year, in the technological direction, and he could also say multi-technical schools and economic and IT. This, with the new system, no child can do. So something's going wrong here. Within three days I have in the office a pole of e-mail, which actually express complaints and protests about the new system and lessons. We have heard all these issues that have also been created at the hearing of bodies in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. The truth is, there may be the deadlines and dates that are pressing, so that the children are ready for next year. But I think, Mr Kourakis, that the law could have been extended, because now there will be actually a 'wrap-wrap-wrap'. The question of access to higher education should be considered better and which courses, from which directions, will be given in which fields, etc. You could now, in order to prevent the dates, issue some circular, which will refer to a future law, which you could make later, unless we cannot make, Mr Kourakis, a circular for a future law. Mr. Kuraki, can we get some circulars for future laws? Could we do that in this particular case?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u227	Future Circulars don't. The law must be passed first and then the circular must come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u228	I say this because on 5-3-2015 you had taken out a circular, which said: "The submission of a proposal on the criteria and how to introduce pupils and pupils into Class I of the following high school classes, which will be defined by legislation as standards". So there is this possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u229	May I, Mr President, reply?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u230	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u231	There are cases where we have the law, and according to the law, we take out the circular. But when we are going to make a law a little later and we need to warn the school unit that this law will come out - since we are sure of a parliamentary democracy - we cannot leave it at the last minute and surprise the children. So we say: 'Know that we are heading in this direction'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u232	With that logic, I'm saying that we could have done something similar and now, so the law won't come in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u233	We can't do it at all, or at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u234	Okay, we'll see then. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the wings of the River and New Democracy]] This circular was about the standards, which you wanted in a hurry this year to abolish, despite all the assurances made by the Minister Baltas in the programming declarations that this is not going to happen this year. In fact, it has taken place since this year and changed the import regime to standards and experimental schools. Standards have been separated from experimental, etc. In fact, you, Mr. Kourakis, said that you did this so that the Third Class would not get in the test so that the cycle would not be completed and that we could not evaluate the system. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I wonder whether we are now so negative in evaluation or whether we have been so quick to make a present to the parents of the students already in the experimental schools by not giving examinations from primary school or high school, thus golding the pill to these parents for the degradation of schools. With the abolition of examinations you are deprived of the possibility of claiming a better educational environment based on their skills rather than on luck or lottery. So it's like telling children that claiming a better future can be a result of luck or acquaintances possibly, but not of ability and effort. And don't demonize the fear of failure in the exams, because - and here I'm going to tell a personal story - and I gave tests to a model at the Evangelical School of Izmir from primary school, I failed and nothing happened. I went to the public, my parents didn't have any money to send me to college. I'm done. I did my career and everything went well, and I did not have any mental trauma left, as Mr Baltas said in the programming statements, nor anything. On the contrary, I learned to fall, to rise again, and it would be good to raise the children without being sterile in fear of failure. With regard to elitist, I would like to say that yesterday, we were in the region of Saints Anargyros at the Standard High School of Saints, and there alone children - elites, that is, it was a classic case of what an experimental school can offer in a degraded neighborhood. Well, fairy tale for elites, but it doesn't have a dragon. Instead of looking at how you will extend the institution of pilot experiments everywhere in Greece - thankfully you do at least in Yannina for Life with the amendment we have heard now, because neither would there be - and see how best educational practices can be disseminated in public schools - which is the real issue - you are going to disappear. And the only ones who rub their hands will be the owners of private schools who will see their clientele restored. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me one more minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u235	Keep going, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u236	I think that you are actually doing this for two reasons. One is the idea that we have said before, and the second is that the standards have opened up real-time cracks of assessment of teachers - that is to say, a little light on the system - and it is something that OLEME could not tolerate, which has tried to 'block' and the last cracks in the system. I won't say much about the managers' choices. It's been said enough. What I would like to stress is that it should not have been our first priority, namely how to choose the executives, the school directors, but what tasks and what responsibilities they will have and how to increase the degrees of freedom of a director in a school to do even better in his work. Of course, with the criteria set out in the new bill on moleculosis, that is, very large moleculosis in pre-service and a little qualified, it actually ends up being a year-on-year, thus punishing the renewal of the staffing capacity in education, while I wondered whether there were some criteria such as 'participation in people's participation bodies', as specifically mentioned in the bill. How can a person who has participated in the organs of popular participation become a good manager? The urgent excuse for this, for selecting the executives, is certainly not the case, because, if this excuse were to end their term of office, the same should be done with the school advisors or the five prefectures, which ends their term of office and extended it by a few months, in order for the elections to be held with the new system. The same could be done with the school directors. To regulate eternal students, I won't say many things. All I have to say is that when someone's been waiting for a decade or two to finish the university, it's nothing to wait for another, two weeks. Could this arrangement come with the multi-project that comes, the "Scientific Armageddonist" as I like to say it. Also, let me say that yes, eternal students really do not have an economic cost, but they have an intangible mental cost, which they pay as soon as the first-years enter the universities, knowing that after they have entered, they are occupied by some inertia, indulgence and without any limit being drawn to other activities, without looking as much as they should. It is therefore intangible the cost of eternal students. Today we are experiencing the real degeneration of the parliamentary process in the field of education by means of the legislative process'spray, wipe, you're done'. Why is such disrespect to something as sacred as education? Can you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, SYRIZA and ANEL, have the beans to pass this bill, but are you proud of the procedures that have been followed, about the dialogue that has taken place, about the misguided excuses that have been heard about the urgency? Good words and promises of dialogue, but let us also see actions. A good opportunity will also be the multi-project that comes, to have real dialogue and not to talk about dialogue. In conclusion, I wish to say that I hope and hope that, because we have already heard of Mr Balta's article with the seven 'k' that there will be no eighth 'k', because you know the word 'destruct' begins with 'k'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, my colleague. The Minister, Mrs Fotou, has asked for the floor. The following will be followed by Gregory Gregorios Gregorakos, Fotini Vakis, Konstantinos Ah. Karamanlis and Harry Theocharis. How long, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u238	How many minutes do the ministers deserve? I don't know. I haven't learned the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u239	You're entitled to nine. I'll give you ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is very interesting, because we have forgotten where we come from. We completely forgot what the law of Diamantopoulou and the other Arvanitopoulos did, which was supposed to improve him. We have forgotten that this law has made precisely the demolition of higher education, but also in general Arvantopoulos has provided private education in two ways: one was to become universities and the private schools, namely, to pay indirectly - hence the Topic Bank - to the care establishments for parents so that they can cope with taught material which has not been taught. This is a disgrace! Who is today defending this disgraceful measure, which deceives the teacher and teacher, that is to say, that the child should be considered and that of what has not been taught in school and learned it by parrots? So give money to private colleges and universities. That's the one. Secondly, who forgot here that you balanced colleges with universities and gave them not only the same qualifications, the same degrees, but also the same professional rights? Wasn't it enough for you to give them the same professional rights based on franchising? In education franchising is no accident. Everything was going to be private if SYRIZA didn't come. Even diplomas have been equalised and not only this, and you know very well that there is no degree in a five-year-old country of Europe that does not include three-year bachelor and two-year master. You refused to do our own degrees and bachelor and master, because you wanted to cut them off. Do you know what eternal students, ladies and gentlemen, and what is garlic with eternals who no one bothered, as the Prime Minister said very well in the morning? Let me tell you. It was 'n+2'. For those who do not know, the "n+2" is who did not finish in two more years from the declared years to obtain a degree, unless the school said no or that. It was for society to become addicted to what the previous colleague said, which said that when students are eternal, slow, they want to be lazy. It wasn't that, and you know it well. It was because the Greek society had to be addicted through a confiscation of the Greek university - a shameful confrontation! - to open business in colleges, because that was your job alone! Today is the river next to this disgrace. Next door! To open up these jobs, therefore, neither too much nor too much did they put a hand on eternal deletions, for then the deletions of normal students would begin. Any child who had not been able to finish the 'n+2' years - four plus two, five plus two, depending on the years of study - would lose the student status. This was served by all three-year courses. That's why the whole fight happened, to separate the diplomas into two, when this system has failed throughout Europe and when Greek degrees are considered better than Europeans, wherever they go. That's proved to be it. Don't tell me that, because I taught forty years at the Greek university, at the polytechnics, and I know our students are very good. That is why all the fuss, hence the Foundation Councils, was made, to bring the diplomas to a standstill from three to two. Because he did not pass through elected beetles or the mighty Senates. All democratic institutions have been broken up. The Senates were now made up of few persons. The Republican Councils were broken down and the Foundation Council came in. The Republic chooses Mr Fortsakis, for example, to the Foundation Council as a candidate and to exclude the other gentleman who did not like it, why has he had other opinions for so many years? Did he exclude him from the vote of his colleagues? Why don't we like e-voking, why don't we get along with the technological means? I've heard a lot since this morning. Let me tell you why we don't like it. Did you not know or ignore it's been recorded that more than one teacher from the same computer voted not only in an institution? Was there the alpha professor who judged him and was the lecturer with him? [[Noise from the river Wing]] So let go of the jokes. We know very well what has happened. So now we're saying... [[Noise in the Chamber]] So will you listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, or may I come down from the Step?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, please! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u242	So privatization, ladies and gentlemen, in every way and not only privatization, that is to say, to send children to the private sector, but also to operate the university as a business - if possible - on the begging for money, because the public does not give him money. Evaluation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Noise in the Chamber from the river wing]] If they can, be quiet, Mr President. Five are all in the Chamber. Can the five of them make a little quiet?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u243	Madam Minister, I saw them quietly. Anyway, please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u244	So I say this: did you forget that the Foundation Councils had precisely this role, namely how to reverse these unique rates that existed throughout the European area, population ratios to higher education graduates? Didn't you know that Mr. Arvanitopoulos told us here that this anomaly must be restored? The relationship between vocational education and university is absurd in Greece, he told us, because many graduates come to higher education. Democracy, then, did not exist. You're starting to blow her up with a storm of confiscation, and you're going on. The teacher, will the professor choose the head of the school? The teacher and the professor, who shapes your children? Shame on you! He can't choose, because the professor will do his favors. Are these the people in their hands who let your children study them? Is that the dignity you need to give the teacher? Is that her? That's a great shame, and that's gonna end. He started blowing up all the stuff you've been up to for five years. Next to the river for evaluation. Tell me: University administration officials with evaluation were fired? Tell me, too, this: Have your former members protested, who were in other classes then, for this reason? Tell me that, too. Well, you're under review. We are mostly arrogant, because the left has always been a pitiful one, which is why she has always been fired. Because he did not close it when he was supposed to speak, he did not plunge his head and was permanently fired and he did not always go up in the hierarchy. Didn't you know that, too? [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. All my fellow Members here will allow me passion, because of course, the struggles of the universities are not forgotten, nor the enormous pressure that we have in order to dismantle the best we have, so that is all the desire of the Greek people and of the Left. "Knowledge is self-worth," says our Minister of Education. Do you know what self-defence means? That it is not subject to market laws. Do you know what self-defence means? That you can't buy a degree, that you can't buy knowledge, by paying as much money as you want. Do you know what self-defence means? It means that research is not done well to be exchangeable, but that the greatest inventions of mankind were carried out by research that did not have direct useful results. Do you know what knowledge will mean? It means it's the greatest right of the people. We will give this right to this people. With regard to this specole on standards and experimentals, which you have merged at best in one - two contradictions - a hundred times we have said that, if it is experimental the school must take children from all classes and from all intelligence, that is to say, from the lowest level to the large, because the experimental school is experimenting to learn new ways of teaching. These, the previous ones and their defenders today, only want the children that their parents can pay for instruction to get into experimental - supposedly - schools. So other standards, more experimental. I'm sure you're taking tests, 'cause they're special schools. In experimental schools, however, they enter all draw classes. If you dare tell a people tormented that these schools are fine where they go through exams, you're hypocrites. In fact, not only are you hypocrites, but you are also destroyers of education. So we're saying it started blowing up. Whatever you knew, forget it. Democracy will return, as will the public university and public education. You should be aware that no one will resist this great power that our people have to support us to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u247	What would you like, Mrs. Liberty? What do you have and you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u248	I would like to say something, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u249	Because of tension and perseverance, I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u250	I'd like to say two words to get down the tons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u251	So here you have the floor for a second, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten. Because, indeed, the Minister was looking to you, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u252	I understand passion. I'm less diligent in wrong. I will not follow exactly these tons, because I do not think we are helping education in this way. We are not the ones who brought the measures that the Minister gave us in all the ways of expression, gestures, etc... Nevertheless, I think it would be good to remember that we should really be interested in improving education. There has been some constructive criticism here too little and the objectives have not been set. We need to be better off getting out of the pit with the snakes we have fallen and if it is enough for us to cultivate a satisfaction that we are the best, that we are the best, that we are super and that all the problems have been solved, I do not think we are serving education. I would therefore very much like our passion of using it even to ease the high tone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u253	Mr Leonidas Gregorakos has the floor. The following is followed by Mrs Vakis, Mr Karamanlis and Mr Theocharis. Then I will ask which of the special speakers wants the floor for a second or whether one of the Ministers wants to speak and we will finish the sitting on Tuesday. Here, Mr. Gregorako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I will not go on with Mrs Fotio's tone. All I want to say to her, because she spoke about the Minister, is that knowledge is not determined by the horizons of any government and no Ministry responsible or Minister. Knowledge is conquered. It's power. Education itself has in it this philosophical to make good people, characters, cultures. The Minister is a man of civilization. I believe that today it has raised the tons much more than it should have been in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the problems that we face as citizens of this country would have a much easier solution if we were to give the same value to education and not to degrade it so much, Mrs Fotio, matching it with an education without education because it suits us. For us, therefore, the objectives of a government with a fresh people's mandate should be concrete and should not reintroduce past degressive practices and ideas to the fore. I'm a father, just like you. I've been a university teacher for years, and I never sold it. Never! Let's look online, too. My great daughter is in England two years, like many Greek citizens' children. I wanted, Minister, from you to tell me - because I have tried, I have not succeeded, I have backed up - what all these children will do. You can also tell me why, since we are such a country with good children, with good brains, our entire university subject, all these years we have been trying and trying again, it has not succeeded in doing something that other European countries have done. That's what we had to talk about right now. Yes, to discuss, Minister, and you're right. I do my self-criticism. From the redundancies of teachers, municipal police officers, from the redundancies of these really innocent people who were school security guards, Greece didn't gain anything. And we who were there to apply these shameful laws have lost. What did I win by being in the Interior Ministry by seeing every day underneath going through - every day and every day - and not being able to tell them that you're right? Why did a programme have to be implemented in the wrong way? But we have the power and we say 'we made mistakes'. It is inconsistent with what you have done in secret. Did you have any reason? You brought a bill that has its positive, as well as other bills. For example, Mrs Diamantopoulou’s bill, which went through with two hundred and seventy-four MPs, had many positive ones. But it started blowing up. He didn't have it all right, but he was positive. They couldn't have made two hundred seventy-five Members wrong. Two hundred seventy-four Members voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u255	And the memorials voted for two hundred seventy Members, but it was a disaster.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u256	No, they were not voted for two hundred seventy-five Members of Parliament. However, seventy - seventy - five MPs passed the Diamantopoulou bill. He had a lot of modernism, he had a lot of good, he had his mistakes. We must not now insist on asylum. What sanctuary now! Any Greek citizen, a citizen of the world, who is our children, can write in the media, in any newspaper and in anything. There are thousands of forms. Do you have to go to college? This was for the teachers of 1850, who had a certain arrangement that they should not say their opinion. Isn't that anachronistic now? Are we sitting here and supporting and talking about asylum? Degression of production base from '10' to '9,5'. He had it, if I remember correctly, and Kutchicu. Repeal of the theme bank. He was positive. I didn't say anything, but he didn't want that to be discussed any more? I think we should talk about this more. He has his positive elements too. He doesn't just have negatives. For example, it is also the way in which school directors are chosen. On the one hand, that's where we went right now. Let's talk about it more. You're a majority. He didn't rape you. You'd have gone through it. But, more importantly, we should discuss it with him to have certain traits of sovereignty. Greece in recent years has been paying for lack of dignity, lack of equality. He pays all this, that's why we're here. We also had our contribution to this. I do not want to talk about what the Minister said earlier. I think my time is running out. I'll just say two things. Greece is going through difficult times and we must hurry on other issues and not on them. Now we're getting eaten - I don't want to get into the process - whether the Xero is in prison or not. Is that the Greek people's problem? Is that the problem for managers today? The Prime Minister said this morning that he didn't change the hospital commanders. Why, can it change them? I want you to change them, I want you to bring quarantine, see who the hospital managers are. Mr. Kurublis has sent for resignation. We're going to the same model? I tell you we shouldn't go to the same model. But you can't change them. Not to say 'we have not changed them', you cannot change them. The fact that the government cannot change, however, an incompetent hospital commander is a problem. I've lived it myself. There to talk about it, get on the bright side. We did various experiments. We've said we'll get party officers. We did it then. I'm old in the curbati, you know. We got the hospital managers. I also had a hospital commander. I hadn't done anything with the party qualifications, I had made a hospital commander. I know that. Then we went and set some criteria. We didn't get that either. Come on, then, to discuss some things for the good. When hospital commanders don't go well, the Minister can't change them. That's another one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It's not white black. What one sees every day in the media is the broken front of the country. At 20:00 the time will again see foreign news agencies say about the situation in Greece. What about all this? You must succeed. We want you to succeed. Because if you fail, the country will fail. We're telling you. Understood. There are people with good intentions. There are people who want to help you. But not in this way, because you must not be irresponsible to the people's mandate. The popular mandate was clear: Within the euro, with a change of schedule. That's what he says. And we want in the euro, with a change of schedule, and we will be with you. So those who are interested, honestly, in the country themselves should support the institutions with transparency and fight for this and not fight for the preservation of the acquired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they attend our meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and three teachers from the 12th Municipal School of Kalamaria of Thessaloniki. We welcome them and wish them health and good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Vaki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not resist temptation and make a comment. I shall fully agree with the Minister, Mrs Fotou. Of course, we have a lot of time to talk about higher education. I will simply say that the only thing that the Diamantopoulou - Arvanitopoulos has managed to do was to demolish democracy, demolish all democratically elected institutions and inaugurate the system of pre-selected institutions, which pre-selected them on the basis of the certificates of social rights. Only those who complied with and agreed to the law were good. But we will be given a chance to talk about it. I will place myself on this bill, which is trying to heal wounds and restore the lost value of public education as a social good through the expansion of democracy. This bill becomes the institutional and legal habitat not only of the constitutionally guaranteed requirement of the role of education to create critically thinking and free citizens but also of its mission to remove exclusions. The great patient of the Memorandum of Greece was the public education, the degradation of which and the degeneration of the product was violently extinguished in the exclusion of groups from the school who did not live and simply survived the limits. It flew into the nucleus of unskilled work and educational markets thousands of children, since the state has renounced its responsibilities to provide free education and has transferred the cost to families. Thirty thousand children fifteen-sixteen years in 2013, according to the Citizens' Counselor, left school to work. The number may seem small to some of you in relation to the active apprenticeship population, which is six hundred thousand. It is, however, a point of retreat not only to the ruins of post-war Greece that social goods were inextricably associated with social origin and order, but also to the advance Europe, which the privilege of birth set life and fate. The Europe of markets and crises fails the promises - and constitutionally guaranteed - of the enlightened Europe for compulsory education and equal access to the educational process, thus allowing everyone to have a destiny different from that which was dictated by its birth. The decline in the school population is a synonym of the democracies. The restoration, therefore, of the ESDP is not only the vindication of unconstitutionally fired teachers - who will return to their ranks, together with the managers of the universities, cleaners, school guards and many others - but primarily represents the vindication of thousands of poor families from whom the state has violently deprived their access to technical education and the acquisition of a professional title. Affini, then, on a background - some months ago - agglomerations in municipal and nursery schools, in order to deal with the malnutrition of two hundred and fifty thousand pupils, with a background of half-willing children from hunger, with a background of frozen school rooms and malnutritions of school units, began the lamentation and the mourning for the education of the deceased, through the abolition of ratings by lazy, corrupt and inadequate educational teachers, through the abolition of excellence by left ministers, which are supposed to promote equilibrium downwards and through tolerance to the alleged eternal students, whose name alone in the student register boasts the image of a well-established institution. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing that has always been completely corrupted was language. After the organist euphemisms that we experienced in previous years of the "Xenical Couple", for "pogroms", after the "ATHENA" of wisdom, for the abolition of university schools and departments, "evaluate", "excellence" and "eternal". Let's put them in a row. The education policy of the monuments established in schools a regime of fear and terror, subjection and dependency, anthropophagia and ruthless relations between administration and teachers, destroyed the autonomy of the latter and shredded their clubs, through the infamous evaluations and self-assessments, which they saw as a "big brother" overseeed and recorded everything. And all that under the pretext of evaluating neutrality, which is enough to be a undergraduate student in social science to know that she is always ideologically charged and rated. Evaluating, therefore, neutrality, assessed neutrality acted as a means of manipulation, surveillance and punishment. Evaluatively neutral evaluation changed the manager to programme managers and bogeymans of the subject to an educational employee. The democratic elevation of all the roles of the school unit is through the mechanisms of intellectual and pedagogical shielding of the teacher and not policing, under the pretext of evaluation. It passes through the hereditary administration of schools, from the teachers' associations introduced by this bill, through relationships of cooperation and solidarity and not mutual integration and social cannibalism. I now come to the multitude of "perfect" excellence invoked by the anti-reform order in order to nurture the diaspora of a model experimental school, forgetting that no concept is carried out in a void, but always in a specific social and political context. In societies in which the proclaimed and constitutionally guaranteed equality becomes an unsuccessful promise, in societies where the flames of equality of opportunity become the lust that hides the unequal educational origins and unequal cultural capital, excellence degenerates into something heterone and linked to the market principles of competition. How does excellence promote standards? Through the pointless man-to-be torture of an exam system that cares about school? As a guarantee of analgesia and closure of an eye in the care centres, apart from any concept of cultivation and creative expression? As the myalic social Darwinism, the obsessed idea of an oligarchal education, which, on the pretext of the crisis, undermined public education, weakened institutionally, fired teachers and restored the colony of many non-preferentials? The correlation between the definition of standards and the introductory examinations is reasonable and historically inappropriate. The story of pedagogicals verifies it. The schools of the great teachings, Pestalochi, the Comenius, Montessori, were not elite schools. It was schools open to everyone. The controversy between friends and enemies of excellence highlighted the deep gap between two contrasting contrasting systems and visions, between the neoliberal idealism of oligarchal education on the one hand and the democratic perception on the other. If excellence - your excellence - wants the disciple of a central system of examination and the educational prisoner of evaluations, which always involve a punishing dimension, then democratic school and excellence are the contradiction in terms. The evolution of pilot experiments in experimental public schools means innovative actions and experimentation as antibodies to school leakage and under-performance. It means removing social discrimination and integrating democracy. It means no schools for excellence, but excellent schools for everyone. Because education is a social asset when it is provided not depending on its value - which Aristotle would say - but regardless of it, in accordance with the principle of distribution of justice governing the social state. One last word I'm going to say about the last article of the bill, which rewrites the students that the previous law deleted and who were deceived as eternity. Two are the strong arguments put forward by the fervent supporters of their deletion: the cost and burden of the many Greek State on the one hand and the imposition of order on the other. I'm starting at the first. What's the cost besides the ink of the registration renewal stamp? Does food, housing and books, which no one is entitled to after the sixth year of study for four-year-olds? Basically, the reason for their deletion was the second one: to enter a class. Yes, because the university of adversary in difficult times has always been a bulwark of struggles and a veil of resistance, the spear's head against authoritarian practices and regimes. The message of order and compliance must be sent to this university. Now, if the deleted ones were late to complete their studies because someone in the family was unemployed and had to return to their towns or because they had to work, let us not hurt them, because we will be rejected by the reproach of populism, the same reproach you have always resorted to when strikes, unconstitutional redundancies, prostitutions against minor students to participate in mobilisations and much more. This week some injustices were corrected and some wounds were healed and the bill to be passed, among other things, came to remind us that in this place the struggles for education were always struggles for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mrs Vakis, for the interesting suggestion. Ladies and gentlemen, the reference and the phrase 'eternal students' must be avoided in particular. They're civilians, they're students. I would ask the Left and all the parties to avoid saying: 'Eternal students'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u260	In introductory terms, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u261	Mr Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that the majority of citizens in our country do not want economic and political isolation from the European mechanisms. But at the same time the Ministry of Education brings us a bill that leads us to the European margin in the field of education. We do not believe in the opposition. At the centre right we are not followers of the so-called structural opposition, which unfortunately has become a tradition in our political system. We believe in consensus and in the composition of opinions. But how can we achieve this if the government itself does not want it? Can the urgency procedure for the education legislation be chosen? It is regrettable, in our view, that a bill should come to Parliament after little dialogue with the educational community. We are sadly surprised at this when it comes from the government of 'the first time left'. The contents of the bill, in our view, are summarised in two words: backwardly. I wonder why all this stuff? To satisfy part of SYRIZA's election clientele? Why is the government experimenting in such a sensitive space? To satisfy, perhaps, ideological strangles? The fact is, however, that the government also decides in this very important area of education to move away from the West. In what advanced country are policies like those proposed by the Ministry of Education being pursued to us? Where other concepts, such as evaluation and excellence, are expelled to fire abroad? Because I do not want to eat you time and talk about many points, such as, for example, how backward it is for higher education the proposed draft law, you will allow me to stand on just two typical examples of obsessive stereotypes. Firstly, the intention of the Ministry of Education's leadership to limit and eliminate evaluation is clear. And it goes on to abolish it without suggesting anything specific to replace it. It is truly incomprehensible for our country and for our time in a developed country, such as ours, that there is no evaluation. This reverses all the essential acquis of the European area of education and research. The second, just as sad and anachronistic - if you like - is the unnecessarily persecution of the model schools. An institution which has worked with great success, as evidenced by the massive entry of young children into the introductory examinations, is, in fact, abolished by an approach that is truly anti-popular. We would expect a left-wing government, and even at a time of crisis, to give more opportunities to all Greeks for high-level education, not less. We would expect to open new standard schools in degraded areas, not limit existing schools to a few historical schools in the Athens basin. Unfortunately, however, the Ministry of Education considers that only economically wealthy have the right to a better education than the average. He obviously realises that the pilot schools are a so-called educational elite that should be pressed, imposing an unscientific equalisation "downwards". It thus takes the opportunity, in our view, to learn better from thousands of children who deserve it. Let me tell you that this decision comes, in my view, in a direct conflict with the basic left account, the reasoned Left - if you like - which has a significant tradition of decades in struggles for quality education for all citizens. But today the government comes to self-determination of this acquis. And in this way we believe that you are affected by the tradition of your political space, but more importantly it is that you are affected by students who do not have the financial capacity to have access to private education. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, all these concepts are socially reactionary, scientifically anachronistic and educationally anachronistic. But it is time to decide which education we want: in the margins and in the isolation of Europe, in the educational sphere of developments or in a culture that is finally governed by internationally recognised principles? The area of education is all agreed that it cannot be a field of exercises on paper and hand-written experiments, but a place of dialogue and composition for the good of the next generations. We all here say education is a national matter. If we believe it, let's do the simplest: let's get to grips with it. To realise that it needs long-term planning and as much as possible wider consensus. To stop the slap-slide, which is the truth that the previous governments have done. We must therefore invest in education and support this regeneration of our youth and our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr Karamanlis. Mr. Harry Theocharis from the Potami is the last of the Members' list. The rapporteurs and special speakers will have the opportunity for a few minutes to conclude the sitting. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say a few words about today's announcement by the Ministry of Administrative Reform, in relation to the method of legalising the independent authorities. Thank you for the confirmation. The Minister states that the purpose of the provision was to keep the principles alive - and what a more friendly principle from the PSE, first - is to avoid the vacancies being filled. Why? Because positioning needs consensus, composition and understanding. And that's something SYRIZA hasn't learned. All he knows is a complaint, demolition, catastrophe. Freight - it is true - for an opposition, but also bad ones. Not for government. If the Government wishes to demonstrate the different targeting of the provision, it shall bring into the next Conference of Presidents a Union proposal on the vacancy of the members of the PSE. Here's a splendid field of glory! Don't look for, gentlemen of the coup d'état, old-fashioned in the river. Look closer. Ladies and gentlemen, you are drawn from the inflatable inclination - we have heard this very clearly today - a genuine child of her with her good and bad. But deep down, conservatives, you have lost the vitality of radicalism, which you have only kept on the verbal level. But the more you talk about radical changes, the more you fight backs for privileges and acquired, battles condemned historically. You are the party of restitution of injustices - so far your ambition - and of returning to the status quo qua ante. But when the fuels of the monumental injustices are finished, you will not know what to do. You need the injustices, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, to have purpose. You need them like diet companies need obesity. You don't want to fight them at their roots, because they feed your thoughts and rhetoric, like Yiannis Ayiannis was feeding Javertis' mind. Nowhere is these sad findings better reflected in the draft education and public administration bill that we have just voted on. Restoration, reinstatement, lifting injustices, first aid, and the expressions we hear constantly. Flexibility, regression, counter-reformation what we see. Four times corrections to the setting. It's 2% instead of 10% the single tax bonus. Repeat the cleaners with personal disparity, and therefore the new designated taxpayers of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue get less. So I'm gonna invite you to give them a raise, because it's a shame what you're doing. Rehabilitation of injustice gives rise to new injustice and so on. You're getting Laurentiades out with your prison law. Maybe you were targeting him. Not Savva Dried. You are giving millions of tobacco manufacturers and manufacturers millions of money by removing the limits of the regulations, while you extend their contracts. Dissolve education by abolishing, instead of correcting. This morning he confessed to the Command Councils, and the Prime Minister himself, in reply to our chief. In short, you're tearing everything down without changing anything. We have just heard Mrs Fotou now defend democracy. Bravo! We're defending her, too. Only this House is not a review. We don't discuss the Constitution, you're a "streeter" of every word of it. We are talking about the education that we have lost, and we have forgotten it in today's debate. We are told 'because the previous people did not appreciate well, not to evaluate at all'. I wanted to know, don't you see the mess of higher education, for example? Family domination, teachers without or with one-digit publications? Now, for the first time, do you hear about the state of education? Please, no more fairy tales! For three months we have heard two things from the government: "The things I do have done and the others have done worse, so don't talk," looking at the previous coup d'état. Bravo! That is what we say: you are the same as the previous ones. Do you want to be the "previous Lights"? Yes, to give you that characterization. You are the 'previous lite'. So don't talk. The second thing we hear is that 'they didn't do it well, so we're abolishing it.' Well done, Miss! It hurts head, it cuts head. Ladies and gentlemen, you are the flesh of maintenance, which is why you will fail. I suggest to the very innovative President of the Parliament, which has really introduced new demons, to make another innovation: Take this Step of the House and take it five meters next door, see you at least the speakers where you are. To their right, along with their partners, ANEL. This is the innovation that this House needs. I'll hang up with a personal report. For the second time, this morning, the Prime Minister gave me the honour to report. The other day, in his first interview with the private channel he chose. Today in parliamentary control. Both have repeated an irresponsible charge, without the possibility of a direct answer. He didn't read my first answer from this one. I hope he's bothering to see the Minutes today. So I answer him and answer the Greek people. It is known that my stubborn head at the pressures for ruffles led to constant rubbing with Maximus. I wasn't in line with the suggestions, and that's why I left. The written requests, at least, prove this because they were not in any other service, rather than in practice independent during my term of office. I left because I didn't do any rushphetti. None. After all, you are building the old-fashioned state, the old client state, and you are talking today, not in writing. Do you think the Greek people do not understand that the Minister cannot have thirteen friends on the ground to make them district managers and by accident go out 'five', eleven SYRIZA and two ANELs? Did Mr. Baltas have any friends before the conflict? His supervisor dictated the thirteen names of sharing with the ANELs. It's a sharing. But there's another proof that my main reason for retiring was that stubborn head. Your chosen, my successor, made the choices with the same party criteria. With orders from the Serbian Cargiorg and Maximos. Otherwise, it does not explain how he appointed three trade unionists of the ILO to the positions of the Directors-General and an independent person to empty the position of the ILO and to be able to place a relative to Maximus in the position of the ILO. All this was done in the week of the 15th and with an attempt to falsify the newspapers, on the grounds that it would cause a problem in the negotiation. That's why they shouldn't have written critical articles. In secret, and I'm violating the 15th of Mayust, the placements were made. The next positions of the four regional directors were made with a "two: two" quota in the parties to the previous co-operation. These are the values and qualifications that you are interested in, too, unfortunately. That is why you are keeping the follow-up to the General Secretariat, and you have even changed the independent authorities. There's no problem. You're right. It's your right. Nobody says anything. You will be judged by your results. My personal and party interest would be to encourage you and encourage you, the Potami to the disaster. But the river did not come to politics to put its party interest above the country's interests. No, party one. Not to do what you would have done, to say 'yes' to each of you - there are many already - to vote for them all and to say 'no' to the fate of all these benefits, the tax-pad that you are preparing for the Greek people, on whose head you are experimenting with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Theochari. Does one of the Ministers want to take the floor before I give the floor to the rapporteurs and speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u266	Yes, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u267	How long will it take, Mr. Kourakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u268	Less than ten minutes I count.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u269	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to inform you, before I say a few things about the legislative improvements. Unfortunately, for reasons beyond our capabilities, the legislative improvements were not able to sign up to you today and you will have them as soon as they have been signed by the Secretary-General of the Government. However, while I had told you - I repeat for those colleagues who were not - the main ones, I will repeat these in less words and two more important ones. I told you this morning that there was a legislative improvement in the weekly schedule of the Third School, which added an hour history of social sciences. There is a legislative improvement in paragraph 1 of Article 10, which adds the High School of Lifelong Learning to the List of Higher Education Standards in the country. The legal improvement at the end of Article 13(1) shall be added as an additional condition for the submission of a candidate to a standard or experimental school post, to hold a doctoral or postgraduate diploma, due to the particular characteristics of these school units. I said that in the second subparagraph of Article 17(7), it is added to the categories of teachers who offer a teaching service and environmental education, health education, cultural activities and agencies. These categories were added, inter alia, for reasons of agreement of this law to be adopted under existing legislative provisions. There is a legislative improvement, where in the case of Article 19(2)(a)(2), the non-modulation of single-year postgraduate students is abolished, after a number of colleagues from Co-Population and Reconciliation are present during the discussion. Legislative improvement is - to have a full picture - as follows: "The doctoral diploma is mobilized with four units, the postgraduate degree, either one-year or two, with two and a half units" The rest remain as they are. Also, with the legislative improvement in case (a) of Article 22(4), it is increased from two to three, the number of school units in which a teacher can apply in order to be chosen as director. Since this improvement is important - it is very short - I read: ‘A candidate school managers, candidate directors of four-seat and other kindergartens and candidate workshop managers for the posts of a maximum of three school units, one of which may be either a school unit having an organic position or one of the school units which have served over the last five years as managers or as teachers for at least eight teaching hours per week. The second school unit is within the PYPE or PYSE where they have served or served for the last five years. And the selection of the third school unit shall not be subject to any additional limitation, i.e. it may be any PYPE or PYPE.’; With regard to what we have been discussing, I would very soon like to say that the legislative work carried out these days is a set of measures - I wonder how some of Parliament's wings do not see it - for students and teachers. These measures have a substantial impact on students. They don't throw the quality of education at all. I would even say that it is being upgraded, as stress is driven out of the exams and the orientation of high school to the exams. You know very well that we have reached the point of being regarded as a good school, when it imitates a good school. This was done by removing the themes bank and, as Mrs Fotio said, it was inconceivable for the professor to teach and for other students to look into it. There was a complete break-up of the student’s relationship with the teacher. Of course, the fact that the professor should have exhausted all the matter is desirable. But you know that many times the teacher, the "teacher" - is a very important concept - adapted the entire educational process depending on the population he had. He wasn't running forward, so he could definitely cover the matter. It was less important to transmit the volume of knowledge and more important to the whole process of education, which is a very sensitive process and must be adapted to the material it has underneath. And many times this material was a low performance material. So it was wise that teacher who took a low school material at the school level and raised it a little higher. If he ran too much and took issues from the themes bank and others, you can see that he would push too many children into school failure. This was the measured - not arbitrary - reason for establishing the grade '9.5', which involved all the lessons and we took it to '10' in each individual lesson, namely '10' in Algebra, '10' in Language, etc., where, if you were in one, you were going for a repeat exam in September. With this system, the school failure rate from 4.5% went to 24%! This means that a large part of the pupils with difficulty was leaving and - in conjunction with the abolition of the possibility of selecting technical schools from technical and vocational education, which you have dissolved, ladies and gentlemen of the previous governments - many of these children or who would be out of school and educational systems, so that they could go where everyone or those who had the financial opportunity to go to private training courses can imagine. The fact that we reconstituted these ESDP specialities and twenty-two thousand children regained their school was a very big gift to these children. I am pleased that this has been recognised by other Members of this House, even by those who had voted in favour of this bill. Perhaps they were not the particular Members. We are also taking steps for teachers and uprooting their stature to perform this role. We are doing this very specifically by abolishing the evaluation, which was of a punishing nature. With this, to the extent that it would also be associated with their wage and graduation development, there came comments with very unfavourable developments. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. They were struggling with each other who would take a project to increase the molecules to be better evaluated than the other, because about 15% had to be rejected. So we didn't say how many were good, but how many had to stay. This caused an unlimited competition. We have just removed this evaluation because, as we have said, we are in favour of evaluation and educational work and of the school unit, but in a way and a spirit - we will all discuss it together - how to identify the weak points, so as to improve the teacher by training and the school unit with the necessary measures we need to take, but not the previous one, which was a completely different system! This caused a great relief to teachers. One additional help was that we removed this "scrupulous" monstrosity of Disciplinary Councils, where a simple complaint for whatever reason put you out of school. We have only kept a few cases - not just with a single complaint - if anyone is, of course, referred to crimes related to the genetic act. We brought the teachers back. We promised, and we did. In the end, we have added another measure that enables them to govern themselves at 33% together with the other molecules. I heard the amazing - it was pointed out by other colleagues - that we instruct teachers to choose their managers in 33%, when we know they will choose those who treat them better. Is that the opinion we have for the teachers, for the people to whom we assign our children to raise? Do we think that they would like, for the sake of convenience, to choose the director who makes them the ballots, that is to say, that there is no arbitrary absence of such things? Is that possible? What we're doing is showing confidence in the teacher. I would even say that it is also a familiarity in the lesson of democracy. Now, if they choose on the basis of party or other criteria and do not choose the most valuable in schools, they will pay it themselves. So you understand that these are very substantial measures. Despite the urgency, although we acknowledged that we would like a better and easier dialogue process, these are very substantial measures. In the debate on Tuesday, we will have the opportunity to say more. I really apologise on behalf of the Ministry for which we have not been able to give you the legislative improvements now. But the main ones are the ones I mentioned. We will see to it that you have it in your hands, so that you can place yourself in the fairest and most rational way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Minister. At the beginning of the sitting on Tuesday, Minister, please bring the legislative improvements and tell us from the fifteen parliamentary amendments which you are accepting. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Dimitris Baxvanakis, has the floor for a few minutes. Here, Mr Baxvanakis, you have the floor for three minutes with tolerance, because you are my compatriot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there has been a real discussion. The House and the people watching us have understood the views of all sides. I was impressed by the austerity of the attack by the opposition parties, and I mean from the well-known three parties that systematically oppose any legislative effort by our government. First of all, I would like to say to the friends of the Potamios: dear friends, I do not think that the constant matching with the two former major parties responsible for the anti-Greek society will help you. If you look at the recent past, you will see that other political forces have been written with them. Consider where these political forces are today. On this particular, despite the acidity of the attack, who disagrees that the new high school system was drastically limiting children's choices and would lead students who would write excellently in the exams outside of higher education? Shouldn't we change that? No one disagreed. Does anyone doubt where the theme bank led last year's high school students? The Ministry of Education itself recognised it, with repeated circulars, in order to alter adverse effects. Does anyone disagree with the role played by the Education Executives' Selection Councils with the famous 'interview', which defined school directors and training directors of each party's "electees" and cultivated customer relations with the local administrative mechanism? No one questioned that. Has anyone doubted that the examinations for the introduction of pupils into a type of schools produce a representative sample on which we can experiment on teaching methods, school manuals and other issues, which we want to extend throughout the range of education? No one questioned it. In other words, no one dared to argue against the basic provisions of our bill. Nevertheless, the whole of the Opposition succeeds in total and has been conceived against this law. Are we tearing everything down, gentlemen of the river? Is things fine now and we're tearing them down? Five years were building the memorials and destroying them? To get a little serious, ladies and gentlemen! A lot of talk about evaluation, that we don't want the evaluation. The theme bank wasn't assessed by Greek society? Shouldn't they be abolished? The interview for the selection of managers has not been evaluated by the educational community? Shouldn't they be abolished? That in the single high school we should give students more choice, is it not an assessment of the existing situation? Finally, to close this - and allow me this sensitivity - who evaluated in July 2013 two and a half thousand teachers of technical education? Who assessed them that hot afternoon in July when the media announced that they no longer need in public school? Who evaluated twenty thousand students and students of these sectors and informed them - on a hot afternoon in July - that: "Good children, you have two options: or you will not study what you want, you will change sector or you will go to a private body. Of course you also have the third option: to leave school." Who evaluated this? Who evaluated the thousands of families of these disciples found in that dilemma that summer. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that we do not have the media with us. The news of the channels from morning to night - and especially in the 20:00 issues - is as if they are written by the same hand. Or have the news been written by the same hand? We don't have the channels with us. However, we have with us all these people of hardship, for whom this government has been struggling for three months so far not to tear down, dear friends. He is striving to restore justice, restore the rule of law in Greece. That is why despite all these attacks, despite all the rabies attacks we take from morning to night, from all the media the support of our people towards our Government not only is not reduced to nothing, but is constantly growing. That is what gives us strength, because we were chosen by this people just to defend their interests. And because people see this, they keep supporting us. We're with him as much as this world is with us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u273	Mr Baxvanakis, thank you very much. Mr Fortsakis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor. You can place yourself from your seat, gentlemen. Come on, Professor. You have three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although not exactly a compatriot, I, too, invoke my relatives with your own origin.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u275	You will undoubtedly have my tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u276	I will be brief, Mr President. I would like to say first of all that I understand that the time has come and that no one is in the mood to hear the same thing again. Since this morning we have been discussing these issues, which have heard all the arguments in favour and against, and the repetition of monologues - each one of them - without understanding, makes no sense. I have made a very severe criticism of the bill presented by the government and made a number of proposals. So let me say that I welcome the reaction of the Minister of Education, who said he would consider the three proposals with a positive attitude. I really hope that we will reach a solution to these issues in a consensual way so that we can establish a process of merit, both on the issue of standard and experimental, and on the question of the choice of teachers and on the issues of university education. I will make two very brief remarks, on the occasion of what the Minister, Mrs Fotou, said earlier, which I think is not here at the moment, but it is okay, she will read them later. First about eternal students, it's good not to plunder. Forgive me for the expression, but we plunder when we display eternals like the memorialists, who no longer have fate in the sun. First eternal is no memorial, for all the so - called centuries had departed long before the Memorandum. Rather, their departure is due to the blissfulness of the time. They found something better to do than the poor thing that brought us the Memorandum. How does the university work? It works as follows. I will give you the example of the Athens School of Law. To get a child a degree, we have to achieve forty lessons. So what do we do? We're opening his brain and we're starting to fly through lessons. Once the forty-one has been filled, he gets the degree. He became a graduate, that is. If he starts his studies in 2015, he has sixty years to get his degree, since we do not have a curriculum limit and therefore, on average, every one and a half years we will give him a lesson in the brain and when the magic number forty one is completed, he will come and say "Let me now become a surgeon, become a judge" or whatever else. I think we should be serious. In particular, when we are university teachers and have experience from space, we must speak seriously about these things. Seriousness means that we realise that studies have organisation, structure, beginning and end within a specific timeframe. To understand it and those who hear us, to return to the concept of the university year, that is, the student starts in September and June or has achieved his home in his home. It has only been reviewed once in September, although since the results of June are encouraging enough, to consider it possible to succeed in September. You go to all the countries of Europe and bring me the example of a country where there is no system I tell you. In Germany, France, England, Italy? So let the fairy tales we tell the world that they are supposedly antimony, and let us leave those arguments that we want to bring together the masses of students we now need to elect the rectoral authorities. It is time to deal with these problems really seriously. I have heard the Minister speak about electronic voting. We know very well why we do not want to vote electronically. Because we have learned to grab the ballot, if we don't like it, and prevent elections from taking place where we don't like it. Have you forgotten what you've been doing for so many years at the university, and how did you normally stop the elections from taking place? Didn't the Minister first take the lead in breaking the university doors and taking over the central building for a week? Is that what you think we've forgotten? And now you're going to teach us a lesson in democracy at the university? Mercy! Being in these things a little serious and dealing with them as we should. So please, when we talk about these, we really do it by measuring our words. I think that these issues require us to look at them calmly, without taking advantage of them in a party, so that we can actually create a system of education that will survive and help our children emerge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 14th Elementary School of Evosmos Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. We wish you health and progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Sveroni-Hondronasiou is not present. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party for three minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. I think that today's debate has shown that there are two perceptions. As there are two worldviews, I would say at the level of society, the economy, exactly that perception also finds its reflection in the field of education. I think the conversation was revealing too. All these nice words that were exchanged between the Minister and the representative of the New Democracy and vice versa - and of course Potami in close proximity, like PASOK, beyond and outside any voices or verbal controversies - prove exactly this, that one perception is that education is absolutely subordinate to the market economy, to the logic of competitiveness, in order for big capital and through this history to win. Besides, the Greek Industrial Association says that knowledge is an important production power and we should control it. On the other hand, there is the concept of the Communist Party of Greece, which says that no, knowledge cannot be a merchandise, cannot be a product, must not be a cost. It's a right, like health, as it's a right to have a life of dignity. So, then, the fragmentation of the bill comes to the heart of this debate, that is, what a school we want and what a society we want. The river dilemma is this: Will it go forward or back? So, if we have an old car, the dilemma is whether it's going forward or backwards when it's not working when it's rotten when you have to change it? Yes, but the Potami, like all the other wings of the House, do not question the dominant system, the capitalist system that exists. They cannot therefore question the basic rules governing education in capitalism. I'll tell you what. The SYRIZA MEPs have tabled a plan to the European Parliament, along with the Podemos in Spain, in order to create a European area of higher education for the single market for educational and research products and services and because lifelong learning should be an additional form of learning, because we have, he says, a differentiated school population. So you are fully subject to the four freedoms of capital, free movement of capital, services, goods and labour. The final aim of the European Union, which does not question any of the wings, is what? Cheap, flexible workforce, turn to training, training - flexible labour relations - mobility - cheap labour force is the package that today and the SYRIZA - ANEL, like the previous ones, continues with full gratuitousness. For the Communist Party of Greece it means school in a completely different society that will meet the basic people's needs. It is the single, basic, twelve-year-old, compulsory, universal school, for which no one at all says anything. He may say public, he may say multidisciplinary, he may say so, he may say otherwise, but what really takes you out of this logic of the market, the commodity, the costs in the area of knowledge, the education in general, is to be united in the structure, the content, the operation. But this presupposes another society in the context of a nationwide central planning, a society in which the real people's needs will really be met. That is what the Communist Party of Greece today defends for young people, a universal right in the field of education. By eighteen years of abstract knowledge rather than this double school network, which actually comes out of the vast majority of the school population, as the government has confessed, from all the wings and from the European Union: 70% in training, that is, cheap labour. So to Caucasus. Hey, no! So the movement is not going to accept that logic and will not fall into the trap and logic of fragmentary debates in order to avoid the substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor, since Mrs Xoulidou of the Independent Greeks is not present. Here, my colleague, you have the floor to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. I will be very brief, as we are ending the debate, and I will try to be specific. Minister, I will ask specific questions. I have heard Mr Fortsakis from New Democracy raise the three issues on which Mr Baltas said that there was at least a word-in-language agreement. As you know, we - and I think Potami - in committee have raised the issue of keeping standards in other places - all the existing ones - even if you want to disconnect experimentally, but we disagree. We do not suffer, as some of SYRIZA's colleagues have said, but we disagree. It's our right. However, we foresee you too to do so. At the close of this debate, therefore, I would like to ask you about the issues that have been raised, such as the standards, where it appeared that Mr Baltas has accepted something. In fact, he praised Mr. Fortachakis. Unless he did so in a verbal formula, so that it can be differentiated from Mrs Antonaku and me, because he wants us to lie to us. The Minister was in such a mood. This is an essential question and I would like an answer as to whether we can expect changes on Tuesday and what changes these will be. As far as I can see, your partner is answering for you and saying 'no' to me. I don't know if that's what's used to happen. I'll take it. So Mr Baltas said so, and Mr Fortsakis unfortunately did. I'm on my way to the next item. Minister, since we do not have the legislative improvements, I have noted on the articles. I am pleased that you have accepted the proposal from many of us - and from our own - to get the one-year postgraduate studies into moleculosis. I think that moleculosis, as you accept it now, is in the best direction. If we had a little time, I don't know if we'd convince you about Article 33, but a lot of things like this, we could change them. So, in the name of the best legislature, I would like to come back with a proposal now at the end, rather than politicizing, because it makes no sense. I told you that the regulation, as it is, on the mobilisation of the teaching experience and of the educational work, works unwisely as an incentive for study, because when a teacher - here are several colleagues who are from the field of education - takes a training leave, he is mobilized if he is given the title - which he usually takes - but the time he does his studies is not as a teaching or educational experience. There is a guaranteed right, the form of'sabbatical', in tertiary and everywhere. You know that, Minister. He needs the teacher to get permission to try and improve his qualifications. This is very important and essential. At the same time, the law, the bill, mobilizes - and rightly so - the education that is out of school because it prescribes or is in lotteries. I think we should not punish pregnancy and childbirth and it is right to have the molecules. But don't make that contrast. We must not have motives for becoming children and for mothers to be able to make a counterincentive for someone who wants to improve his qualifications. I would ask you to look at these issues in the name of this consensus, which we insist on building. I want to forget the words of Mrs Fotio's hatred. I told Mr Balta that what she said about me and Mrs Antonaku is true of Mrs Fotio. In fact, we heard from Mrs. Fotio. I'm up against it. It's okay. But it's important that our universities tomorrow are better. I think that with all the things you bring, you also have an amendment, which I shall at least invite you to discuss. You're removing management boards with one amendment... We are seventy-four Members, and we did not deserve two - three sittings of this House at least to discuss this? With one amendment? It's a shame, Minister. You're going through a press message: "I don't care. Now that I'm a government, no dialogue, nothing. I am bringing an amendment to what I care about." Comparing the curriculum now, which has been tabled, shows who looks at political choices as well as merit and who does not look at it. We'll be here on Tuesday. We'll wait for some new changes. I hear they're not coming. Consider at least the educational experience, the teaching experience to measure people who take the training permits. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u281	After you said the words "it is a pity", "..." would be removed with your consent. You're noble.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, I am sorry to take the floor again, always with your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u283	Do you know how much you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u284	I'm so sorry. Before the Minister, Mrs Fotou, told us by raising her hand '...'. The Bureau then, I don't know if it was you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u285	All right, the word ‘...’ is deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u286	Well, if you're running out... And I said it and I drank it. I said 'all right, it's...', 'it's a shame'. Well, delete ‘...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u287	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u288	But when the otter ministers tell us "shuffle" and fight us here about how we should stand and have a hand in the pocket... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u289	All right, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u291	Minister, I think now that... Mrs Martinou, have you asked for the floor? Did you make any sense to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u292	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u293	You are so tactical and diligent that I felt obliged to ask you. Say it, Mr. Kourakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u294	I just want to make one clarification. Management boards do not come with an amendment to this bill, they are articles in the bill. I say that for rehab, regardless of whether we agree or disagree. Why did you say it couldn't be...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u295	But, um... Look at the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u296	He's here, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Fortsakis, open your microphone to tell your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u298	Minister, there has been an amendment from what I understand, if I have understood correctly, which says that the term of office of the institutions is extended until the end of October and that the replacement procedure does not involve the boards. That's it, isn't it? Did I get it right or didn't I? Because that's what I saw.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u299	Minister, tell us. And we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u300	Well, look. I am referring only to the part that he said that we are deleting with one amendment. This isn't about it. In the polynomial plan we will have the opportunity to discuss more thoroughly about feasibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u301	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: 'Urgent measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education'. A request has been submitted for a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law by Members of the New Democracy, which will take place on Tuesday, May 12, 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-08-S1-commons.u302	With the consent of the House at 20.17 the sitting for Monday, May 11, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) a statement of petitions and b) a debate on topical and urgent questions.
