ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Before entering the agenda, the oath of the new colleague, Mr Gregorios McKaronas, who enters the position of Mr Constantine Damavonitis, who resigned from the post of MP will be taken. Mr Gregory Macaroni is invited to come and give, as he has chosen, the religious oath before the representative of the Church. [[Mr Gregorios Macaronas comes to this point and gives the following oath:]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousia and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to the homeland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfill conscientiously my duties"
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u2	Worthful, worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u3	I wish you a good term! Mr. Colleague, welcome and ironhead. It was a very good reminder of your oath and the contents of the Member's oath, which is faith in the country and democracy and the preservation of the Constitution. Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Conference of Presidents has been completed in the context of the definition of the head of justice for the Court of Auditors. That is why the start of our session has been delayed. As you know, the positions of both the President of the Court of Auditors and the President of the Council of State, as well as the President of the Ice Bay, who was already paid by the appointment of Mrs Thanos, have become vacant. The process of replacement and placement has begun in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the existing legislation. I would therefore also inform the House that the hearing was concluded on the position of the President or President of the Court of Auditors and this is a procedure that goes ahead. I also inform you that the position of the Conference of Presidents - and my own as President of Parliament and most of the Members of this House today's House - is that this process of involving legislative power and executive power in the definition of the leadership of justice is a problematic process that needs to be reviewed, because it creates issues of independence for the three functions. However, this is the current situation and constitutional and legislative situation, and so we are supporting it as a pretext. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by students and professors of the Project of Summer Scholarships of Greek Studies from the University of Athens by Departments of Greek Studies, seventy-eight higher education institutions, belonging to twenty-nine countries. We welcome them with great joy and warmth. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Leaving Athens, where there will be some time left, I believe - and the best ambassadors in Greece in their educational establishments. Before entering the agenda, I have to make two more announcements. The first is that the Finance and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers and the Deputy Minister of Finance submitted on 30-6-2015 a draft law entitled ‘Structuring the Convention for the Enforcement of the exclusive right to organise and conduct a reciprocal racing bet in Greece for a period of 20 years and other provisions’. Second, the Deputy Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Economics, Culture, Education and Religion, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Health, and the Deputy Ministers of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Health, submitted on 30-6-2015 a draft law entitled “Configuration of Armed Forces Transfers and other provisions on Staff Care of the Ministry of National Defence”. We have a few records. I announce that on 25 June 2015 the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 1 and 4 of the v. 3126/2003 on the subject of "Criminal Responsibility of Ministers", as was the case, a criminal case formed by the Prosecutor of Primary Athens, following the statement of 30 September 2014 by Mr. Efstathios Kamaratos on the former Minister of Education - according to the complainants, Mr. Konstantinos Arvanitopoulos - for the alleged offence of the breach of duty allegedly committed, concerning the non-compliance with disciplinary proceedings against Prytanios and the members of the Senate for unlawful acts that took place with the decision of the Concert of the University of Ioannina, with which the complainant was not elected professor. Also, on the same date, on 25 May 2015, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 1 and 4 of the v. 3126/2003 on the subject of the ‘Prime liability of Ministers’, as in force, criminal case-law created following the application and reference made by Mr Ioannis Kounelis for the offences allegedly committed under Articles 259 and 232A of the Criminal Code, namely infringement of duty and non-compliance with a provision of a judicial decision concerning the former Deputy Prime Minister, Simo Kedicoglou and former Minister of Finance, Mr Ioannis Stournara, concerning the adoption by them of the abovementioned Joint Ministerial Decision No. 2/11-6/2013 on the abolition of the public undertaking ‘ERT-S.A.’ and secondly, their non-compliance with the provisional order of the President of the Council of State with which the implementation of the abovementioned joint Ministerial Decision was suspended, thereby preventing the radio Tripolis from recurring at the frequency of 101.5 FM in June 2013. Furthermore, on 25 June 2015 - three procedural proceedings on that date - were forwarded by the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Ministers, which was subsequently formed after a preliminary examination involving the Deputy Minister of Development, Mr. Athanasios Scorda, for the alleged offence of infidelity in the Service, to be terminated under the aggravating circumstance of the legislation on abuses of the State, from which the benefit achieved by the perpetrator and the alleged damage caused to the public exceeds EUR 150,000 and is of particular value at a alleged end time on 6 June 2014. I would like to inform you that there are many documents already sent to Parliament. There has been a process which will soon be introduced into the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so that these documents can be properly dealt with and processed, because, as you know, the constitutional deadline is two regular sessions of the next parliamentary term, namely the current one. We are now holding the first regular session. Therefore, in the context of this procedure, the issue of the thorny and ruthlessness of criminal proceedings that are not dealt with should be resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the articles, amendments and the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Amendment of provisions of the Code of Greek citizenship - Amendment of Law 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98 EU on the single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals with a view to seasonal work and other provisions’. I would remind you that the bill was passed at the beginning of the meeting on 25 June 2015 following a roll-call vote requested by Members of the New Democracy. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 30 June 2015 decided to continue the discussion of the draft law at two meetings, namely tonight and tomorrow. I therefore propose that we proceed to the debate on the articles tonight and tomorrow. Is there a loose end from those on its list at the beginning of the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u5	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Mavraani, you're asking for the floor. You will give me only half a minute to inform me that it was agreed, as usual, with the agreement of colleagues who were unable to speak at first, to propose to the debate on the articles. There is a list which has already been drawn up and which is forty-six Members, as Mrs Perifanos informs me. I suggest that speaking time should be for the rapporteurs at 15 minutes for all the speakers in seven minutes. The list will be opened, which will remain open in the speech of the first four rapporteurs. Mr Mavraganis, rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u7	Madam President, I would like to warmly ask the Minister, who is the rapporteur for this draft legislation, given the context of politics - wholeheartedly we all wish with united forces, and our positive action is at the side of the country's Prime Minister, in order to achieve this great national project - today to focus on what unites us and not on what may divide us and give a symbolic postponement or interruption of the sitting on any procedural basis we can - perhaps with Article 93(5) - so that - with love I say it and with sensitivity - we as parliament can follow what is followed by all of our people, who are homogenously on the side of our Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u9	Mr Georgiadis has the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, we want to appeal to the request from the Independent Greeks. The request is correct at this juncture. We want to remind you that, on the basis of the Prime Minister's commitments, we will have an agreement this evening. Of course, it ends the weekend today. Of course all the Greek people expect to see what is going to happen with this agreement. It seems a bit steep and contradictory, Madam President, while all the Greek people have this great anxiety about what will happen in a few hours' time, whether the Prime Minister's commitment will be implemented as before the referendum or whether it will not be observed for exactly where you are driving the country, to discuss citizenship and to fight here, while we are trying to give a picture of solidarity from yesterday on the initiative of the Prime Minister with the Council of Political Heads. I would therefore like, and given that we have these negative discussions so far from Brussels, with the Eurogroup's communication that no formal proposals have been tabled and, therefore, a proposal should be tabled after a few hours, that the request from the Independent Greeks be accepted. We will have time to discuss the legislation on citizenship calmly, under normal political conditions. I would remind you that we also have an intra-government dispute here, between the two parties which make up Mr Tsipras' government. So we think it is good, instead of today discussing something that separates us from us, to have a political debate if the House has to meet for what we are really concerned about today, and there are developments in Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u11	Is there another parliamentary representative who wants to be placed? I see Mr. Poppa and Mr. Theocharis. Mr Pappa, you have the floor, and then Mr Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, I should like to remind you of our party's position, which advocates and drafts the position of the previous speaker - the one that made the beginning of this debate - of the ANLE rapporteur - to postpone today's sitting. It is a position which we had warmly supported at the previous sitting before the Eurogroup emerged. We are in agreement with this proposal. The debate must be postponed and it would be a pleasure for us not to reintroduce it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u14	Madam President, the opinion of the River Parliamentary Group is that there is no need to postpone the debate. It is clear that the government's attempt to reach an agreement within a forty-eight-hour period - we will not spoil it for some hours, let the Greek Prime Minister will do so in the ninety-six hours, so that he can somehow keep the promises he made to the Greek people, as he asked for his support and took it with the above, we would say - has the wish and the practical support - after all, yesterday, the meeting of the political leaders under the President of the Republic was held - so that the government finally stops the front - and come with an agreement to the Greek Parliament, in order to stop this nightmare that the Greek society has been going through in recent years, but in particular in the last few days with the closure of the banks. This does not mean that we are not a European country. For us it's unnegotiable. The smooth functioning of this Parliament does not stop because the Greek Prime Minister makes a great effort and the fact that we will also stress our differences, even on these issues and on the question of this bill, does not mean that we do not support the Prime Minister's efforts. We're Greek society. There are multiple teams in it. I would like to believe that everyone is expressed by the groups of the Greek Parliament and we are not winning anything by hiding our differences. We should also emphasise that in a spirit of fruitful dialogue and criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u16	We had proposed last week because of the referendum and because time was too short not to start the debate and to postpone all the work. Of course, what prevailed was 'no, we will move on'. And everyone realizes why, since everyone had to go out and talk to the people, etc. The answer was that the procedures should go ahead. As far as today's issue is concerned, we have no problem either whether it is done or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u17	I'm sorry, what procedures are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u18	For the start of the bill, for the committees, for the Bureaus, for a series of activities of the House. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u19	Everything has been postponed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u20	Not everything has been postponed. They were postponed after Wednesday. By Wednesday everything was working properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u21	From the day he got in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u22	He stayed on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, if I remember well, because the time now is a little fast and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u23	Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u24	Monday, Tuesday was normal. We'd said before, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u25	We held a conference, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u26	... we said that once there is a referendum - do not repeat the debate - that the House should stop to liberate the MPs and move on the basis of what everyone says about the referendum. He wasn't heard. Okay, from there on, we can't impose it. At the moment we have the debate here. Of course, someone can reasonably say whether such developments should continue the discussion. We have no problem and the debate will continue. Let's make up your mind. As far as conscientiousness and all the rest are concerned, one word will be said: the Greek people have not authorized anyone, but no one, to return with a memorandum. As far as we are concerned, the proposal put forward is the one that was tabled before the referendum on the part of the government, which is, in our opinion, the one that we are learning, and that is not disproved from nowhere - a new memorandum, which has nothing to do with what the Greek people have decided and believes today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u27	Mr Paphie, just clarifying yourself in order to refresh your memory, because as you said the days were dense: we met on Tuesday night, after the meeting on the Deputy Minister for Social Security's bill containing the provisions on reinforcement was concluded and it was on time. It had to be voted on in order to benefit from these beneficial provisions for workers. Both your party at the Conference of Presidents and in plenary had agreed that this procedure should be completed. Afterwards, most of the members of the Conference, i.e. all the members of the Conference other than myself and Mr Koutsoukos from PASOK, voted not to hold Parliament's debate on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, so that Members may also find themselves in the regions, to deal with the referendum. That was the proposal tabled by you and the Conference decided unanimously then that today's bill, which would not be discussed on Wednesday and Thursday the day before, would be introduced tonight and tomorrow. It is a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, and on the basis of this decision the agenda was adopted on Tuesday evening from me, and that is why we are coming here today. Perhaps - I don't know - you got misled saying that the proposals were not heard, etc. Just as the proposals have been put forward - and it was almost right that the Conference of Presidents should be made available - and that is how they were implemented. At the moment, a new proposal is being tabled, which is to postpone the debate because of the developments, in which I understood that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u28	If you'll excuse me, just a minute. I don't want to go against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u29	No, we don't argue. I remind you a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u30	We agreed to discuss Mr. Army's bill, so to speak, on the basis of the fact that it was a matter of urgency, mainly, and a number of other issues. But this could have come last week. And we said to stop all the work. That's what I'm saying. In that we couldn't say no at that moment. So I say, in this respect, that we have no problem. Decide whether you want to continue or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Gerovali has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a difficult time for the country. It's crucial. However, it is not a day that has timetables. The Eurogroup met and it is inaccurate that it had a very negative development, in that it was a Eurogroup preparation for the summit. Indeed, what was also appreciated is that, if there is political will, there can be an agreement within twenty-four hours. We are therefore waiting for political will, which we do not know in how long it can give an agreement. But, in any case, we are here today to discuss a bill which I did not see separate from us, in the sense that the part of citizenship we have all agreed in here that it is part of our European identity, as far as we are concerned about the view we have on it and the legalisation we are doing. Of course there are differences, particularly in the time of citizenship, etc., but it is not something that divides us. From there on, in this debate and in the course of the debate on bills within Parliament, political issues are also being discussed. And here we are, to show and what divides us, what differentiates us and what unites us. We're here to prove that. There is therefore no reason to postpone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u34	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u35	I would also like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u36	I won't give you the floor again. Mr Christodoulopoulos, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and then Minister Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u37	I wanted to say that the facts are too serious and the juncture is critical. However, our differences, which are ideological, do not relate to this juncture or to any other difficult situation in the course of our country. Evidently, ideological differences are not removed from the political circumstances and the issues they raise at a time. I would like to stress that what the referendum showed and the last concentrated days recorded in our country were, among other things, the willingness of Greek citizens to record their will and exactly what we are discussing, namely the status of the citizen. Whether with their great participation in the referendum or the choices they have made in 'no', what they are asking for is for Europe to be heard, for their will to be heard. This is the content of our bill: Who and how to acquire the status of Greek citizen, on which terms can one join our people. I think it is a good time that this bill is being discussed. Because we can do exactly with these results, with this obviously difficult situation that we are experiencing - which is a situation that has to do with one with tendencies of inclusion in Europe and tendencies of exclusion from Europe, the great contrast that exists between the European peoples - and we in our way as a Greek state want exactly what we want. Do we want people living in our country to be included, incorporated or excluded? And it is not just a question of immigrants, it is about democracy itself. I therefore believe that the day is a flagrant day and in that sense I think we can continue. Furthermore, I would like to stress that there are some provisions on matters which are urgently needed to be voted on. One issue concerns the Management Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, you should know that we still have no Management Authority to get European funds. I want to inform you that the feeding programs for immigrants and refugees in pre-regions are over, and are coming up with uprisings, because we are not giving them food! It is not possible, if the provision for this Management Authority is not passed by tomorrow, to get a euro from the European funds. That is an urgent point. You know that this provision had entered the Katugalu bill and for some technical reason the Court of Auditors rejected it and restore it. We cannot allow this provision not to be voted on. The second issue concerns some of the amendments that we are making on the situation on the islands. You know the situation on the islands is degraded. We are trying to make some arrangements and some changes that make life easy for the districts, mayors, refugees and the inhabitants of the islands. We can't let them go. We cannot let the summer pass, because we do not know and what developments will be. Therefore, in addition to the flagship of the day, which I said at the outset, there are urgent reasons for this House not to interrupt its debate. After all, the House is an instrument of popular sovereignty and we must also show in Europe that we continue to do so in Greece, despite all the problems and concerns that Greek citizens have and despite all the expectations we all have for a good agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister. Minister Voutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleague, Mr Mavragani, the bill to be discussed on the articles has already been voted on in principle, with the public statement of all opinions and the extensive debate that has taken place days ago. Therefore, it is not something that is being put forward and is going to create a high climate of confrontation and division. After all, in Parliament we are discussing all the agreements and disagreements that exist on every issue and we are reaching decisions, proposals and legislative work. We are not selective about what separates us and what unites us. There are no such issues. In other words, there are no issues - in addition to the debate that is taking place in the different opinions, the compositions that exist - that divide in depth and form camps which come outside this House's debate and should therefore be avoided. I would like to stress that yesterday's communiqué of all five parties following the debate with the President of the Republic is expressed and is concrete and entirely helpful to both the Government and the role that he will play today - tomorrow - in the debates on this issue on the big issue, which has emerged and for which yesterday there is a detailed account of the views and the consensus provided by the five parties. It does not go into other issues or create a new framework for the country's political situation and for the perspective of the individual issues that we are discussing here. I think that is a common view for all of us. It is therefore precisely because this bill and the amendments that have been tabled are very important and we should be given a new start to the debates and work of this House, it is clear that we insist that this sitting should be held today. In any case, there was a great intersection, which condensed itself to the fact that a large percentage, in essence, is much higher than what appears in the outcome of the Greek people, participated in the procedures of this referendum, raised its opinion in one way or another, and there was a great decision of the Greek people on the crucial, cruciform and strategic issue for the country. On the basis of this decision and having in its luggage this decision but also all the climate and views from all the parties and the verdict of the Greek people, the Prime Minister, the Government, these days give their battle and we are sure that there will be the best possible developments for all of us. Madam President, we recommend that the debate be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Minister. After these locations...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u41	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u42	Mr Theocharis, I am not going to give the floor for secondary reasons, because you have also rightly expressed the insistence on commitment to the Rules of Procedure, and I think it is now a glorious glorious field for you to comply with the Rules of Procedure of this House. The views of all the groups other than the PASOK, which has not been placed, have been recorded. I don't know if there's anyone from PASOK who wants to be placed. All the rest of you, I think they've been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u43	I do not wish to speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u44	All right, Mr. Arvanitides, you don't want to place yourself. There is, therefore, this request or wish on the part of the Independent Greeks to postpone the debate. Parliamentary Representatives of all parties and representatives of the government were placed. As President of Parliament, I would like to say that the House is performing the parliamentary function, which is a very important function of the culture, and it is not appropriate to paralyse in anticipation of developments and regardless of other parameters. This bill has been tabled for a long time, it has been passed at the outset for a long time. I am amazed to note that parliamentary groups who were protesting when the debate had not been concluded are protesting today. In order not to generalize, I shall refer to Mr Georgiadis. Mr Georgiadis, you were protesting when the debate on the articles was not concluded two weeks ago and now you are asking for a postponement. In any event, the Plenary Assembly shall decide in principle. I shall therefore ask those who consider that the debate should continue, in accordance with the agenda decided, by raising the hand to state this position. [[Members of Parliament from the wings of SYRIZA, Potamia and KKE at this point are raising their hands.]] I would ask those who consider that the sitting should be postponed by raising the hand to show this position. [[Members of Parliament from the wings of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn and the ANLL]] I would ask those who declare "residences" by raising the hand to declare it. [[At this point, two Members are raising the hand of the European Parliament.]] Two Members state'representations'. By overwhelming majority - I think - the plenary decided to continue the debate. I therefore ask the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Vassilis Katrivanou, to come to the Step for her introduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u45	Won't the Minister precede it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u46	Madam Minister, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u47	Shouldn't I introduce the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u48	You can do it. At the beginning of the debate you do so at the beginning. In the articles you can do it or not. Would you like to precede? It's even better for the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u49	All right, let me get ahead of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u50	You have the floor, Mrs Christodoulopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u51	For how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u52	For eighteen minutes. Are you enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u53	I hope so. I'll tell you soon. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have a follow-up to the debate on the bill - although some time has elapsed since our discussions, both in committee and in plenary - to show what points there are on the basis of which there is some disagreement, to highlight the points where there have been shocks and on the basis of which to try - anyway - to reach agreement on this bill. So I start with the articles on citizenship. You know that the position of SYRIZA, as it had voted in 2010, is to have citizenship for children at birth. However, we, when we decided on this bill, went back our opinions. We have been critical of them, precisely in trying to find an average, on the basis of which all parties will agree, so that we can vote for a law which reflects the entire mood of the House to regulate a social issue which concerns a large category of people living in our country, which are the children of the second generation, which we want to include in our people and to whom we want to give the status of the Greek citizen. That is why, through a very great debate - I assure you - we have tried to formulate in this article the conditions in this regard in order to enable these children to acquire Greek citizenship. I am obviously referring to Article 1A, which is the article regulating the performance of Greek citizenship to children born in our country. So I start, and I say that the children born in our country, the children of the first generation immigrants, think they are a distinct category, which needs legislation, precisely because they have been born here, they have acquired genuine ties with the country, they have gone to school, they have not met another country, they have not met another language, they do not follow the life model of their parents, but the life model of their interlocutors. From this point of view, they have all the genuine ties to include them in the concept of the Greek people. I shall try very briefly to respond to the disagreements and objections made at the previous meetings. Objections were made because a child born in Greece must acquire Greek citizenship when going to the first grade and why not take it when the primary school or later, when the nine-year compulsory education is over. I want to answer that. I will respond first to scientific, social and political. When does a child need to acquire the status of Greek citizen? We know that children have a conscience of themselves and of the world when they first get into a community and school is the first community, except for the kindergarten to which they belong. Then they acquire their identity - their social identity, their national identity - by which they are grouped. They call them scientists, SYRIZA doesn't say it, I don't say it. Science has judged them. In this sense, we think that a child, at the age of six, who is late, but, in any case, we have retreated to it - should not be considered a stranger to his classmates, not to be alienated, not to be isolated, not to be subject to violent behaviour, not to be treated differently and immediately, because this is what is of benefit not only to these children, but also to the Greek society, to become normal, in order to be really what is desirable - which is the social integration of these children into the Greek society - in a generous way, in a way that these children really will join and develop no hostility either to our country or to their peers. Other MPs from other parties said that this may make it easier for the school to leak, that is, a child we ascribe to him when writing to the first grade, may then stop school, because he will have taken citizenship and have no other reason to continue school and he will leave. I think there are too many counter-problems in this argument. I will just say a few, to see that this argument cannot stand up to common sense. I do not think that a parent, a first generation immigrant family makes so much sacrifices to stay in our country, to be legalised through very hard procedures, to have a child, to wait for this child to be six years old, that is to say, over thirteen years, and once he writes it in the first grade, to get it out of school and get out of school and go away as Mr Athanasios said, with one example, that a child from Georgia left with his family and went to Canada and thus this child will also have Greek citizenship. First of all, let us say this: the legislator does not legislate on the basis of exceptions. Otherwise, we wouldn't have legislated anything. We would always predict that there might be a misappropriation of rights and we would say that, since this could be done, we would not create a law. You can't do that. We can't get a possible or unlikely exception, so we can't make a law. Second, there's no school leak. You should know - because other Members have said so - that the children of migrants who go to school are very little indeed now. Why are they very few and why does this article concern very few? Because this law mainly concerns children over 15 years of age. It is about legal immigrants who have lived in our country for many years, and it is not about immigrants who came to our country the other day, so their children are now six years old. They won't make use of the law of new immigrants. They will use the old immigrants who have already given birth, whose children have already gone to school, who are already most of them finished primary school and nine-year compulsory education. We should therefore see that school leakage, i.e. rates that appear reduced for migrant children, is due to two reasons: Firstly, many of these children have already acquired Greek citizenship, so they are not listed as foreign to the school lists and the evidence of the Ministry of Education. That's the only reason. The second reason is exactly what I said, that most children have finished school grades and there are no children attending, especially in elementary school. Besides, the school leak never has anything to do with citizenship. It is mainly about the socio-economic conditions in which people live. The Roma are Greek. But they have the highest rate of school leakage. This explains their lifestyle and choices for their education. I therefore think that these arguments - that they will leave their children illuminated and we should protect them and therefore set a higher limit on education or that they will make use or abuse of this provision, to take citizenship and leave - are an arbitrary version, which is not confirmed by life. And I think that this argument has no strength. The third is that it's considered too early. I said before - and I have spoken very much - that there are provisions within the Code of Nationality, from which it appears that there are provisions that stipulate that a child can acquire citizenship because they have become Greek parents and according to the Code of Nationality, Greeks can become immigrants who have lived in our country seven years of legal residence. If, then, the Nationality Code itself gives the right to first generation immigrants in seven years to become Greeks and to become Greek children automatically, we cannot in the children who have been born here and who have arrived at the age of six, who have to go to school, deny this right. That is why we have chosen six years to be close to this provision, which provides for the naturalisation of first generation immigrants. Many other provisions of the Code on Immigration provide for much more favourable provisions. For example, it provides for automatic acquisition of citizenship by the so-called third generation. While, in other words, we will now torture the second generation to look for what provision it is, if the school is finished, how old it is, it is, if it is twenty-one, if twenty-three, to see where it comes from, the third generation will become direct Greeks, without any procedure. This is a provision that exists in the n. 3838 for which the S.H.E., although it has made the strict decision 460/2013 - with which we disagree - did not say a word. So when there is a framework so diligent for citizenship for all children who have grown up, who have been born, have studied in our own schools and are an organic part of our society, we cannot come and say that these children will not be awarded Greek citizenship as a special category, especially when all the legal classes in Europe have attributed to most children with their birth and only make conditions for parents to have lived legally eight years, one, the other, ten years, depending on the country, in the countries of Germany, France, Austria, by putting in a mixed system and soil and blood. So I think that is what we are divided into at all these meetings. For the other two articles, which refer to the acquisition of citizenship after nine years of education in Greek schools, after graduation from high school and high school and from AEI and TEI, there is no disagreement. Since, therefore, there was no disagreement on this, we went to legislative improvement and divided Article 1A into two articles so that Members of the parties who only agree with the second case of citizenship have the pleasure and satisfaction of voting on it, because we are not interested in blackmailing any votes. We want what is to be done consensually, so that we can truly address a call to these people who have grown up in our country that we want them to join the Greek society. These are, therefore, very briefly, the provisions relating to citizenship. I now move on to the other provisions to which I shall refer briefly, because I am already speaking for thirteen and a half minutes. The other articles, as follows, are the incorporation of two European Union directives, one of which has expired. By December 2013 we had to have incorporated it into Greek law and did not. We have already received a letter from the European Commission on a fine. There is another urgent reason - I did not tell him before - for voting on this bill. It provides for a uniform residence and work permit for all foreigners, so that there is a possibility and a facilitation of the lives of foreigners, but also for the control of all legal conditions for living in our country. The second directive concerns seasonal workers. For the first time, in any case, a regulation is being made on how the seasonal workers will come - up to six months - how many times they can come in a year, how many ways they will work, so that this black work we know there is - particularly on the part of Albania - and because of which we lose resources for our insurance funds, be eliminated, restored legality and be able to obtain income from our insurance funds. Article 8 makes some technical recasts and regulations, because there were some errors in the wording of the n. 4251/2014, i.e. the Code on Immigration adopted last year. Then we go to the article on humanitarian and exceptional grounds for granting residence permits to various categories of foreigners. Here I think there is a serious study on the part of the Ministry in order to restore various injustices in various categories of foreigners or those who have fallen legality, because they have not been able to renew their residence permit and work. We really had to bring these people back to legality, through the excellent speeches, so we set a provision for them. In the humanitarian reasons we put this well-known provision of Article 19 -- the famous article Baltaku - which had been withdrawn in the previous House and had come out of a relevant CSR. We have included it in the body of the citizenship bill, so that it also marks the Greek Parliament's will that it is really important to give the country the opportunity to stay for those who are victims of racist crimes or witnesses or anything else. All of this under conditions, on the basis of the decision of the prosecutor exercising the criminal prosecution. Other provisions of the Migration Code concern family reunification. You know that this is a regulation arising from European Union directives so that foreigners living in our country who have residence permits can join their families and children. There is an irrational arrangement in the Migrant Code saying that the woman who gave birth to a child in our country, since it is not lawful, has to leave and that the application for family reunification should be made. We have arranged this, saying that there can be a family reunion and while both spouses are in Greece. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] The same applies to the relatives, and we put it in a special arrangement, because for them there was a similar ban, because one of them had to leave and subpoena him for family reunification. Then we put the residence permit for second generation children not subject to the provisions on nationality. Because there seem to be children who are adult and who are leaving their parents' residence permit and who do not have the opportunity to live in our country. So we're putting these kids, if they're studying or having a student's status, to be granted a residence permit. We also have various arrangements that we think make it easier - in fact it is not important to tell you - the lives of various categories of people who live in our country. Now I would ask the President to sit down in my place so that I do not interrupt the flow, so that I can refer to the amendments that are on the table and report them to you once and for all. And the MPs and ministers who have submitted them to come to the Stepma to defend them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u54	Madam Minister, if I understood correctly, would you like to refer to the amendments that you are accepting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u55	Yes, and there are some of my Members and some of them, ministers, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u56	Can they be supported first and then?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u57	In relation to the ministerial amendments, please refer to them to the extent that the ministers are here in order to introduce them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u58	Good, and then write after the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u59	So our debate will be extended to the articles and amendments. If you already know that you intend to accept parliamentary amendments, I would like you to mention them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u60	Yeah, I'll tell you what I'm going to accept and which aren't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u61	I would like to ask those colleagues who have tabled them and who have tabled them, to ensure that they are speakers in the five-minute period provided for in the Rules of Procedure to state the contents of the amendment, to set the good example and not have 'phrases - ghosts' that we had in other periods.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u62	Well, let me say the following: First of all, Article 9 of the bill recasts it. It's the same, it doesn't change. It's just changing form. It is that of the Management Authority - the most important thing I have said to you - that we will present emergency assistance from the European Union, etc. It's our ministerial amendment. There is also a parliamentary amendment - I put them by date - that are the Members of the SYRIZA to suspend expulsion of Syrian refugees entering our country. Here I will tell you very soon - you will read them, they will be distributed to you - that you know that every one who enters the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u63	Excuse me, Minister. They must all be available there. If there is a colleague who does not have an amendment, he will say so because they must all be available.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u64	And the overall number, if you want to, say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u65	And if you are kind, Minister, please refer to the number, general and specific number of protocols.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u66	The amendment of SYRIZA Members is 163/62/12-2015. So, as I have said, it refers to the suspension of expulsion. I will say to you very briefly that someone who enters our country is subject to thirteen administrative acts, which have been counted by members of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and sent them to us. That is why people are so late on our islands and we have this indescribable picture, that people are there congested and that we cannot give them hospitality and their rights. We have therefore tried, with this amendment, to correct two actions. We haven't been able to do much. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u67	The MPs have tried.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u68	Yeah. They say here, therefore, that because there is a deportation decision and then again the police make a second decision to suspend expulsion, we have four actions. By means of an act, it decides to deport the incoming. The second act is that it notifys them of this decision to sign. The third act is the suspension of expulsion, because they are Syrian refugees and is forbidden to deport them. Fourth act is that it notifys them of the decision to suspend expulsion. That's how we're doing the thirteen acts -- it's supposed, if that's how it's done - nine. We therefore accept this amendment. There is also an amendment to the Potamiou, the 160/59/11-6-2015, which we do not accept, because we believe that this combination of criteria it has set for Article 1A is also consistent with the decision of the S.H.E. We therefore consider that, as formulated, our own article is more facilitated by constitutional issues. In addition, as you know, we have the decision of the Central Preparatory Committee and the decision of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which speaks of the constitutionality of the provisions before you and, in particular, of Article 1A on which our disagreement has emerged. We therefore think that we should not go under it. Also, the ANEL amendment, number 161/60/11-6-2015, on outstanding debts to PPC, is not accepted because it is not related to this draft law. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] SYRIZA's amendment on the legalisation of land workers, number 162/61/12-2015, is also not accepted, because this is mainly a matter of the Ministry of Labour, which is already working on the question of how to control and legitimise black labour. Also, with regard to legislative proposals, I would say - because it is not an amendment - of the PASOK, the Ministry, as I have already announced at all previous meetings, reserves and works in this direction for the relatives. With regard to the JRC's amendment, on the subject of ‘Consolidating debts from OGA insurance contributions’, number 164/63, it is also not accepted, because it is not related to this bill. There are also other ministerial amendments. The first thing I mentioned about the Management Authority is just recasting, so it already exists in the bill, in Article 9. One of the amendments we are tabling, one is 172/65/12-2015, which refers to the possibility of transport, mainly concerning the islands and especially the island of Lesvos. You have all heard that in Lesvos island refugees and immigrants come out to various parts of the island and then they walk endless miles, from forty to sixty-five feet, in order to reach the police or port authority to surrender and become the thirteen administrative acts I told you. It is not allowed under the previous legal framework to enter either the CBELs or the taxi or hitchhike, because the transfer is considered to be a felony. With this amendment, we are therefore trying to facilitate, on the one hand, their transfer by all means, without being a felony, and, secondly, the regions that want to hire special vehicles to carry refugees all along this route. You will have seen images carried by themselves on foot and in the trash carts to have their children. This spectacle, which has travelled across Europe, is really embarrassing and, above all, it has no effect, because these people do not want to leave. Everyone wants to surrender and everyone wants to get their six-month temporary residence permit, because without it they cannot enter the ships. So there is a typical legality about the ban on transport, which we must do with this amendment, so that people can actually be transported without any risk of losing their lives or with the heaters having anything and having other problems. I also said this in paragraph 10 that we give the regions the opportunity to make these leases to transport vehicles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u69	The exit gates? For the prefectures they want to leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u70	Now I'll tell you about them. From there on, we are starting the new amendments. We have an amendment concerning the issues of supplementary occupational insurance funds. It's a parliamentary, Mr. Yannis Statha. We're accepting it. Also, we have an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u71	I'm sorry, that's relevant to the bill, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u72	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u73	To get to know each other, is that relevant to the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u74	No, but she's a parliamentarian...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u75	Ours, where wasn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u76	She's out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u77	I'll see you around, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u78	Don't complain. It's all going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u79	There is an amendment to harmonize with the OECD, signed by Mr Hatzilabrou. And she's a parliamentarian, we're accepting her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u80	That's relevant, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u81	There is also an amendment to student transfer. You know, so many days have passed since the House was closed, there's been a few of them. It is signed by four SYRIZA MPs. They're going too. There is an amendment from the Ministry of Health. The Deputy Minister of Health is here to develop it. Refers to outstanding debts of the ERC hospitals and to the way in which the administrations of the hospitals are appointed. I think I have said all the amendments. I think that they should be distributed, so that they can be developed by the competent Members, take into account all of them and all what is being discussed. That's all. Have a good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u82	Madam Minister, do you have the kindness, because they are asking the Services, so that Members can also be facilitated, to give us the number of amendments that you are accepting, to serve Members as well, so that they can be acquainted with and placed accordingly? Please, you have one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u83	Half of them I've said. I imagine you've noted them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u84	If you don't have it ready right now, we can interrupt another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u85	I'll give it to you in a minute. You guys go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u86	The rapporteur has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA, Mr Catrivanou, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill, the Legislation on citizenship, but I will start this position from the referendum on Sunday. The reason for this is that what happened on Sunday is an earthquake, I would say, on many levels, both political and social, and at the level of our everyday life, and I think it is necessary to raise it and discuss it. This is our first plenary session. I consider the previous referendum to be very important. The people were asked to speak their opinion. It is a catalytic process, because its dynamics surpassed us all, and it also surpassed those who supported 'no' on their part. It was something that crossed us, something that we liked. It was revolutionary the way people, people, and he said what he wanted. It was something I've never lived before, it was something unique. It is certainly a vote of confidence in the government and the Prime Minister, but there are many others. It is the break of fear and a great 'no' in the horrors of the canals and the old political world, in the terror of lenders. But most importantly, it is a 'yes' to resistance, collectiveity, to a Europe that resists. Because what has happened is not only about Greece and it is not just about politics. The 'no' said by the Greek people creates another unity at the base. It is also a hand which is spread across Europe, to all the citizens of Europe who are fighting. Suffice to see the demonstrations and demonstrations of solidarity that are taking place in Paris, Madrid, Barcelona, London, Brussels, Lisbon, all European cities and all over the world and see what the slogans are. The slogans are: 'Europe says no', 'Thank you to Greece', 'The Greek people voted for us as well'. I had to be placed because, whatever the subject of today's bill, I do not think I was allowed to go ahead without saying what happened. However, there is also a second reason that the battle of the Greek Government, which is today the battle of the entire Greek people, against the needs of the lenders, the "no" and the bill of citizenship that we are discussing now, have close ties, because each one with its particularities is votes of the same project, the struggle to rebuild the Greek society, to create a new path of reconstruction, a path of dignity and a path of solidarity. The Government's attitude to the requirements of lenders is not a matter of figures and accounting. It is a battle not to dissolve the social fabric, so as not to increase the number of people who are violently ignoring their future, so as not to cancel the debt of every choice of this people. The Legislation on citizenship is part of the same struggle, so that there are no two categories of children, our children and other children, so that there are no more walls and other blockades, so that people who have the right to be legal and who are capital and wealth of the Greek society are not thrown into the margins. Like the areas in the penitentiary, the opening up of the ERT, the enlarged cohabitation pact for homosexual couples, all are digits of the same vision, which, despite the terrible difficulties that exist, are struggling to implement them, because we really see and believe and create together a society of justice, solidarity and all of us. So, today, two days after 'no', at the same time as one of the most crucial negotiations for the future of Greece and the whole of Europe, it is not at all a party to deal with the children of the second generation and the integration of immigrants. It is necessary and imperative. The rights, ladies and gentlemen, are not luxury, but unnegotiable goods. At times of crisis, not only can we let them enter the second fate and wait, but now they are gaining even greater value. Because with the bill, what we are discussing now, while all the debates on Europe are being held, Greece is sending another message to all the peoples of Europe: that there is another way against Europe - a castle of fear, xenophobia and intolerance. There is a path that sees the nation as the future of people living together and want to live together under the founding principles of the democratic culture, regardless of their origin, to vision and create together. About ten days ago, major disagreements were recorded in this Chamber, but the climate was for a general consensus, with the exception of Golden Dawn, as to the body of the bill, that the children of the second generation must take citizenship. That's what we have to keep. We want members of our people who are born and raised in Greece, who are trained here and in short, form their conscience as members of the social group in our country, regardless of the origin of their parents. Late acquisition of citizenship is a recipe for social failure. It creates people angry on the sidelines. We do not premium hatred and xenophobia, as the previous government did, but solidarity and integration. We want to make use of the wealth these children mean for society and move on together. I will say a few words about Article 1A, which gives children citizenship by enrolling them in the first grade, since it raises most objections. For us, as for most European countries and non-European countries, citizenship is not a grim prize awarded after many trials or - even worse - following obstacles. It is a legal bond that comes to confirm the already existing and real bond these children have with society. To us, citizenship is a tool for integration, and I am sure that, despite the difference of our lives, if we go to the neighborhoods of Athens, we will understand it, because we will see six-year-old children playing with each other, laughing, speaking Greek and we will not know who they are, and who they are, only if they are darker. But that's where we're going to another conversation. So if we think about it, then, that citizenship should be given to the first grade, it hides a conception of citizenship as a necessary evil. So, since we can't avoid it, let's give citizenship as late as possible to the F grade or eighteen years. We are opposed to this. We believe that it is necessary to give priority from the outset. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] At the same time, as the Minister spoke, I will say a few words about two major amendments tabled. The first is ministerial, and criminal sanctions are abolished for the transport of citizens of third countries by public or private means. In particular, it stipulates that no criminal sanctions are imposed in the event of the rescue of people at sea, the transport of people in need of international protection, and in the case of promotion within the country, in order to follow legal proceedings following the illegal entry of citizens of third countries into the country. This puts an end to all the criminalisation of the transfer of people observed in Lesvos, where, as the Minister said, inexperienced people are trying to get in from the entrance and reach the country of Mytilini to be recorded. On the other hand, there are solidaritys, who give them help, taking them into their cars, who are criminalized, and as a result there are constant trials. At the moment, in fact, our Member is there to witness these trials. Now, finally, after all this time, right now, this shameful law is being abolished, this shameful provision. At the same time, there is also the parliamentary amendment, which we tabled, which is protected by the expulsion of citizens from third countries, in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement, which is laid down in many international instruments which are also international obligations of our country, such as the Convention against Torture, the Geneva Convention, the status of Refugees and the ECHR. According to this principle of non-refoulement, a man should not be returned to a country in which he will face persecution or serious harm. There are other amendments which I will mention below. I just want to say this: at the moment, today - tomorrow, the Greek Parliament, the Greek people are sending out a message of practical humanity, solidarity and equality throughout Europe and throughout the world, because this means, together with the struggle we are giving, the vote of this bill on citizenship, which is at the moment - and it is very good that it is being made at the moment - a message that is at the heart of European values, at the heart of movements, at the heart of the struggles of the peoples of Europe from 1789 to the present day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u88	Well done, Mrs. Catrivanu! You gave us four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u89	I'll take them, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u90	There's no one to get. The rapporteur, Mr George Georgios Georgios, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I will follow Mrs Catrivane' s example because there are forty-six Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Georganta, excuse me, but I want to make three announcements. I'll keep your time. I read a letter from Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, which reads as follows: "To the President. I request a fortnight's leave from my parliamentary obligations. For family reasons I must travel abroad from 9-7-2015 to 23-7-2015.’ Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u93	The House approved the requested permission. I will briefly make two letters. The first one is the Secretary of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, which is designated as the Parliamentary Representative of PASOK in the drafted bill by Dimitris Konstantopoulos and the second one is by the Secretary of the Potamian Parliamentary Group Mr Panagiotis Kartsoulis, which defines as Parliamentary Representative Mr. Thank you, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, there are forty-six Members registered. The sitting had to start at 6 o'clock this afternoon and we see that until now we are in the second rapporteur. It is understandable that the way must be found so that Members can actually speak. I do not know how the Bureau will achieve this, but I think it is also in its responsibility and responsibility. So I should like to take this opportunity first of all to comment on political topicality. I think it is necessary to stand there because today is an important day for the country. So I just wanted to say this: the Prime Minister of the country is in Brussels having all the supplies he has asked for to achieve a good result in the negotiation. I am referring to the following: Firstly, it has the consent, the approval of the Greek people, as it was wanted and has achieved it on the basis of the outcome of the referendum, in order to strengthen the country's negotiating position. That was what the government and the Prime Minister are demanding and achieved by a very large majority. Secondly, it has the consent and consensus of the Heads of the political parties in order to achieve the result that we all want. It is therefore in his own responsibility now to prove that he has the capacity and also the consensus of the two parties to the conflict, so that the good results for our country can come as quickly as possible. We all hope for that. The New Democracy, as a force of responsibility that always guarantees the country's European history, will indeed support all efforts towards this purpose. Before I go into the matter of the bill and some of the articles I would like to mention, I would like to make a comment on the amendments, because the Minister has already made several of them. I am pleased to see that the Minister rejected some of the amendments tabled because they are irrelevant to the draft legislation under discussion. However, it only referred to some of them and was not placed on others, who are irrelevant to the bill. I hope that the same attitude will be maintained by the government in their vote, because some of them are not just irrelevant to the draft legislation under discussion, but also late and are not justified - at least as I read the texts of these amendments - the urgency of the situation in which they come to a bill which they do not concern. In relation to the bill itself, there has been a lot of discussion. I think that the debate was held properly in committee and also in plenary, but there was also a public debate. The New Democracy's view and position is clear about the draft legislation under discussion. For us, it is not just a standard criterion that can be attributed citizenship to someone. The essential criteria which both the Constitution and the legislator and the Council of State have set out as a contour in which we are obliged to move. So there must also be the fulfilment of the essential criteria, namely those that demonstrate the real, effective integration of a foreign child with the Greek society, with the Greek people. So we all understand very well that the simple registration in grade 1 does not provide these guarantees. That was also the main reason why the Council of State in the previous law was negative. So we need to balance between the need to really deal with a situation that has been established in our country, a situation which has to do with many thousands of foreign children born in the country, and at the same time to ensure that we actually have citizenship to these children, these families will be given as the peak of an integration process. It is not citizenship efficiency the instrument for integration. It is the culmination, the escalation of a process to be followed, a process of effective integration. There are many issues that I mentioned in detail in my previous position and on which we must see and distinguish our attitude and position on the basis of them and taking into account the importance of such a draft law, which, as I said, has an irreversible course. It's not a simple tax bill that you can say you had a failure and you come with another law tomorrow and you fix it. This is a bill which will have a course that is unrealistic if it is not what it should be. Why should these children not be obliged to complete nine-year compulsory education, which, anyway, also applies to all Greeks? Why wouldn't that happen? I heard as an anti-profession that at the age of six children are starting to form a consciousness and there they will feel differentiating their origin or ethnicity. I think that anyway, a foreign child in the small society of a school whether or not he has citizenship is not something that his classmates can find out himself or give it to them. But I do, as I imagine all my fellow Members, want to know when this child starts to realize where he is, what his origin is, and what country he lives in, to know that in the successful completion of these studies he will have as a matter of fact and without any other prerequisites the possibility of obtaining Greek citizenship. It will be the escalation of this effort, this substantial integration, which will be coming along the way. Is it possible for a child of six or seven years to see whether or not there is any nationality on his face so that it can be incorporated more smoothly, as I have heard from the other side? This can't happen. On the other hand, why do we not take into account the fact that there are groups of immigrants living permanently in the country, but avoid sending their children to the Greek schools? We know very well that immigrants who basically come from Muslim countries do not want it. I think, therefore, that by making it compulsory, we are actually helping these children themselves not to be diagnosed. That is something we know very well. I think we all see that. If we look at the percentages of minors, foreign children, who go to school, we find that the children with this religion that I mentioned are much smaller than everyone else, although their presence in the country is especially enhanced. Why, then, should we give another possibility to any parent who wants it? Because we need to distinguish that. Eventually the foreign child is entirely dependent on his parent. His parent will make his decision on how to regulate his life course. So why not give any such father or mother the opportunity for his child to go to a Greek school and to be integrated in this way, but he wants to gag it? But if he makes a simple registration and gets Greek citizenship, why not help such a child? We're actually helping these kids. We actually oblige their parents to take them to school. We are basically helping them to acquire a education and education. Otherwise, if we simply give it a chance to acquire citizenship, without the need to finish nine-year compulsory education, we are doing so to these children and not good. I think that our positions and our objections, which were permanent on this particular issue, have been analysed as adequately as possible. From there on, it is up to everyone to put themselves on this issue. I will only make two comments on specific articles. There is one article, Article 10(6)g, which refers to the exception to the expulsion of foreigners who denounce offences against them. A correction has been made on the part of the Minister, but I think it is not enough. The correction was made, which puts the part of the finding made by the prosecutor of the criminal act complained of. However, the article continues and states 'those who come to denounce'. I think, therefore, that this wording, at least for anyone with legal knowledge, shows how broad that is and how much it can create issues. What will he say 'who comes to denounce'? It should say 'whoever denounces'. Otherwise, anyone who is arrested at any point, in irrelevant time and in irrelevant location, could say that I was going to come and denounce tomorrow the criminal act that took place at my expense. Oh, no! Whoever denounces or whoever's on the way to denounce, whoever's out of the police station. The article must have such a wording, which must be made very limited. It is very important, because it is a door, a ferry from which thousands of immigrants can enter the country, which we cannot deport. Because we know very well that it is too late for the prosecution to come. One final comment, because I would like to be consistent with my commitment to the President to finish as soon as possible. In Article 8 there is an amendment to Article 17 of the Treaty. 4251/2014, which, with regard to foreigners who come to work in companies or to create companies, says that this company should have at least twenty-five employees in order to obtain the residence and work permit. This is an amendment to Article 14. Why this restriction? Don't we want companies to be created in the country? Do we not want to create and have an investment from foreigners as well? Should we limit the number of workers to twenty-five? If someone would explain to me why that restriction, I might have accepted it. However, they have all avoided mentioning this provision, which I consider to be very important, and I think it should be withdrawn. Otherwise, someone should explain why this restriction exists. Mr President, I think that the plenary and every Member of Parliament must decide, with his conscience, in such an important bill, a bill that enables us as joint legislators to decide who will be the highest for a Greek, that is to say, who will be called Greek tomorrow, is responsible for each of us to assess on the basis of not our political position and our political head office, but indeed on the basis of the balance of needs, and to show the person that our country, the European person, should have, in relation to dealing with such needs, but at the same time, the necessity for the Greek people not to become just a group of people without any link between them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Michael Arvanitis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, we are playing players in view of the fact that the vote - euphemistically called - has already passed and will be voted on. This bill, which is ruined for our country. We find ourselves facing two fronts: one to west, the Esperia of the loan sharks and we are under storming, group fires all the time, by some with particular tension. And there the Prime Minister of Greece is already fighting - and this is what we hope - against the austerity, against the suffering of the Greek people, on the issues of liquidity, which at present have old-age tails, patients, to get five-tenths in order to eat a piece of bread - and, in general, for the so-called enslavement, if it is able to remove this balance, to become lighter. That is what I hope and I think it is right that the Prime Minister of Greece is currently fighting for. All Greeks, at the moment we're talking, are hanging on TVs and those who don't have televisions - very few - are watching radios to listen with an agony what's waiting for them tomorrow, as far as their survival is concerned. Nobody hears what we're talking about here today. Is there anyone who believes anyone has their TV on the Parliament channel? Oh, no. Everyone is hanged on TVs and fastened with anguish in order to hear what will happen from now on. And the government, in particular, the donor of the government, has brought here insidiously and politically immoral a bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u97	What Minister? What's a donor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u98	He meant he was a State and said he was a donor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u99	Yeah, keep an eye on what he's saying! To withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u100	Yes, I take care of them and write them in the Minutes 'as a State'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u101	That's what ate us! On the other hand, we have a eastern front, and there it is and it works the other way round. What do you mean? There we don't fight to face the enemy, the enemy of the race. There, on the contrary, we are fighting for invaders! We are fighting to come to our country to settle, integrate, if possible assimilate, if it is possible to assimilate an incompatible graft. But such a battle is being fought, that is, a battle for unconditional delivery to the Africans and Asians, for whom the Minister expressed the fear, which I, as an instrument of Greek understanding and by the committee, had the responsibility before which the current bill was being discussed, but also today in particular, that I have nothing to do with the Minister of the Greek Government, but I have to do with a representative of Africans and Asians. He came here with the look...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u102	What's he saying? Watch what you're saying! What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u103	Please, at least have the elementary courtesy not to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u104	They won't interrupt you again. But, Mr Arvanitis, you who are dealing with the Greek language perfectly find another way to express your ideas freely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u105	I don't think my terms are hybrid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u106	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u107	My terms are not hybrid. I tell you what impression as a Greek citizen I have obtained from the way he speaks in favour of invited invaders. So, here's the time we have this war west,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u108	You're not an average Greek, you're a congressman!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u109	Can you shut up?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u110	No, you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, they are seventy-five Members to speak. Don't fall into traps.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u112	You're gonna listen to me, you don't want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u113	Rescind! Your expressions, sir,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Balaura!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u115	At the moment, the disadvantage is that the Greek people are not listening to us. The only thing you can hear from us is you who are reacting in this way and who want and wish for the gradual genocide of the Greeks. There are boats coming, among them they are slaughtered in Lesvos and other places in Rhodes and Kos Afghans against Syrians. These gentlemen want priority! Later, the Minister said, we'd have a riot. We will also face up to uprising if we do not meet their demands. Do people have rights, where, from their legacy, father? And will they come here to the detriment of the Greek people living, feeding here, where we have unemployment at these heights? They come to feed here, to go to our hospitals, to bring infectious diseases. And beyond that, along with all these lyrics, which invade our homeland and we welcome - why this term has been used - in these jihadists, murderers, there are rapists, there are prostitutes, there are prostitutes, who bring and carry infectious diseases, and a thousand other two, whose presence here will contribute to the rise of crime to the birthplace. What's the point? Is that the question? In fact, should Greek citizenship be awarded to them? We were told astonishing that citizenship and citizenship are the same. The Greeks do not know or bring us new principles of politics and constitutional law. When someone comes and buys a house here, Italian or German, as long as he sits there is a Greek national, he is obliged to obey Greek laws. He can't outlaw and say "know anything? Why are you blaming me? This is not provided for by the criminal law of my country, by France, or by Germany. No, he's a national, he doesn't want to! So where is citizenship identified as citizenship? The indigenous Greek who has citizenship necessarily - it is a consequence - is definitely a national. But this foreigner, who comes here, definitely takes citizenship, not anything typical, is necessarily a national, must obey and respect Greek laws. Do you know Greek or do you want me to teach you Greek? Where does the word citizenship come from? It comes from the word "thys", which means a step forward, then, along with the word, the term "generation". It's about continuity, the advancement of the race. What genus? The African, Asian or Greek?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u116	The people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u117	I have heard the Minister say that this will be a law that can stand over time. People - he says - are anxiously waiting to regulate their lives. And what do our people here expect with anguish? Did a bill ever come here about the most acute demographic problem? Here, a post on June 25th! A man who has ten children, and has thirty years of craftsmanship, could not hold it - Greek with ten children, Greeks! - and now he's a clerk somewhere and he gets 600 euros a month! I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Michail Arvanitis - Avramis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And we are interested in having the comforts and all the rights of the Greek citizen! Where are we? Where do we live? Do we live in an unreasonable space? Do we want to kill ourselves? He cares why people want to regulate their lives too, alas! We do not want to regulate our lives, which are also such unemployment, that the Greeks are leaving, the young scientists and managers of research centres in the United States, Germany, England and Australia? And we bring here all those who I described earlier, to bring us their culture, to integrate with us. We are a single set, with history, with morals, customs, which cannot be affixed, because others are their genes, their blood. Mr Pafilis is not here, who spoke with blood transfusion. How to do it! It is a natural given fact, we cannot overlook it. Not because they have other genes than us and more blood. Oh, no! But we in this tortured country are the ones who are and are looking to solve our problems. And Mrs. Minister is interested in and cut off, with this large style, for these people! What's he saying in there? I'll see you in a minute. I think I have some time. It says 'from pity to democracy'. What will they contribute to democracy? Tell me what they'll contribute that I can't understand. He said it. It's the Minister's words. 'For social cohesion'. Will social cohesion be or will there be a break-up of the social fabric? There will be a breakthrough of social peace. What did Israel do? We dare not say a word about the europeans and the Israelis, we respect them, we have them, we have a picture, above all. Why don't you hate them? Is Netanyahu and his government fascist - and I ask you - when Netanyahu himself says that I have no right to cause a population change to my people and disrupt social cohesion? And he has made a mileage fence in the Negev desert, so that no one comes near, that is, he protects his genus, and he rightly does it, and I congratulate him here on the Step. Instead, we are looking to gradually destroy - we have already done great harm spiritually, already principles, values, ideally, all this has been deported - and we are only being diverted to seek material benefits. Nothing else. If I ask a Greek populus, who knows how to speak Greek - no education - what the purpose of his life is, what he wants, he will say "living, eating something, working somewhere". That's what he'll tell me. All the others that keep man at human level have been forgotten and do not imprison him at animal level. Unfortunately, this is what our potentials and loan sharks wanted to achieve, and so far they have achieved it with the help of some who want to wreak Greece into their hands. It has been said by one rapporteur that no one other than Golden Dawn accepts that our children, our children, should not take citizenship. I know that all the children and all the Greeks, whether children or grandchildren, are our children, all of us. But I don't know how our African girls are. I don't understand that. Am I going contra naturam? I don't understand it. In addition to that, this so-called bill - because I would describe it differently, but the President has observed me and has told me to use, in any case, other terms - it violates the Constitution, it is in breach of the Constitution, and Article 3 clearly infringes Article 1. It infringes Article 16(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The Constitution has prescribed for the Greeks, clearly. Our children! I hope, Mr President, that you will give me one or two minutes after the time limit...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u118	Because I ate you a minute, you'll have it. But one, one and a half, because they are seventy-five Members registered to speak. I'll give you time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u119	I understand, but the way you talk is like what you hear doesn't matter to you. Oh, of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u120	I told you one more thing. I am interested in all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u121	Because I don't think that sounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u122	Whether or not I care is my right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u123	Do your duty! Well, here, then, he's prescribed... Are you smiling, sir, and looking at me even below high?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Arvanitis, proceed to your speech. Do not address colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u125	I do not know if some colleagues, some Members, have bothered to read this monument, this model of legal, verbal, linguistic and reasonable arthropology! Did you read the explanatory statement? Are you satisfied? What's he saying here? It says: The reason for the arrangement is the need to ensure the smooth development and the integration into the Greek society of foreign children born in Greece, etc. It is a moral and political foundation for the effective expansion of democracy." What's that? Is that reasonable, and I don't understand that? He talks about popular sovereignty and about the Greek people, who decides to make it up. You're making a mistake! The national legislator shall decide on the composition of the people. And if you believe what you're saying, that the Greek people decide on their composition, make a referendum get a 90% vote - not to say where, you understand it - in the face. Make a referendum on this major national issue! Do you dare to do it? You don't dare. A 10% is who wants to exploit these people, 'black money' and the rest, and who doesn't care about developing crime. What else can I say? In the explanatory statement, he also says elsewhere: "... shaping, in this way, a Greek national identity". Where? From fig milk? "Consequently, the Greek nation is a community of origin within the meaning of Article 1 and the rest, which establishes so-called blood law as a technique for obtaining Greek citizenship. But it is also a nation of choice and consciousness', that is to say, our people choose that they want to stay with Africans around here, which will be numbered in a short time, and with Asians! You asked the people? Who did you ask? The criterion of common will, of 'object to him', regardless of the origin of people. Because it 'likes' that anyone can come here. Immediately will citizenship be sold in the kiosks - 'please give me a card of nationality?' - to any stranger who comes out here at the invitation. What articles should I refer to? I will only refer to the fact that, apart from not respecting the Constitution, the Constitution does not respect the prerogatives of the Supreme Court, which clearly state that it is not the national legislator who is responsible. So he disregards this bill - because I do not want to mention the Minister - and the Constitution and the case law of the Supreme Court since 1990 - please - to this day. Where are we going? Is that a form of dictatorship or isn't it? What we want, because we have a majority, do we decide at the expense of the nation? If that's possible! And I just want to read to you something other than what the legislator clearly says from the decision of the supreme canceler. "The clause in favour of the nation established by Article 1(3) of the Constitution" - which the Minister despised - "interpreted is designed to maintain the continuity and unity of the Greek nation". That's the point. You, the government, do not want a Greek nation. You want a multiracial state, like we're a reception place. We have always been a country of origin, not a host...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u127	I shall conclude, Mr President. We never had a heavy industry or an advanced technology or anything at all that we need immigrants to come here. Multiracial state, sinful intercourse of heterogeneous racial elements here at the expense of the Greek race. This is a crime you're committing and that our children, our grandchildren and other generations will pay. Unfortunately there is no hope. Mr President, I very much wanted to make a point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Arvanite, I'm sorry, I've given you three and a half minutes extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u129	I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u130	- But finish because I can't take time from the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u131	In all these millions of Greeks, they hear five to six...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u132	You have a denture for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u133	...to hear things terrible. What do you mean? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come We're here for your insurance. We're here for your rights. Our people, let's go where they came from. Unfortunately, I don't have time. I could talk too much. I'll leave to the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u134	Yeah, but it can't be done. Please, get it over with. Don't make me turn off a microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u135	But don't I give the Minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u136	Give it to me! You've been talking for 20 minutes. Let's have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u137	And it's cut if they're rioting. Bulgaria put a fence. Hungary put a fence. Israel put a fence. We'swallow dogs' and don't give them any gratitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u138	Mrs. Antigone Lyberakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u140	I'm sorry, Mrs. Liberty. Madam Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u141	We are tabling the following legislative improvements: Article 1 of the draft law, as I announced before I was placed, is divided into Article 1a, which has the prerequisites for obtaining citizenship for children born here with a parent who lives legally five years and with their registration in the first grade, where we consider that he has the genuine bond. Then there is Article 1b with the other two conditions, namely compulsory nine-year education (high school, high school) and graduation from the HEIs and TEIs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, since you are so typical, the Minister standing up when he comes to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u143	The truth is that the Rules of Procedure provide for other things when a Minister speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u144	I didn't know that. I'm sorry. I don't have a problem. Therefore, as I have announced before, this gives the opportunity to those Members who do not want to vote for 1a, to vote for 1b. Two other legislative processes are the recasting of the two European Union directives, which are incorporated into Greek law. They simply formulate themselves better, so I announce them to be in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u145	Put them in the Minutes to be copied and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u146	There are other ministers I'm going to tell at another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u147	These are legal. One more, the other one. Mrs. Libertyraki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very serious issue under conditions that one might say are dramatic, historical. There are too many characterizations that do not sound too much. However, rhetorical expressions have no value. What's really worth is considering with coolness where we are and where we should go. Because in the end, we are all on the same boat. The 'approximately' relates to the previous speaker. As you know, Potami and I personally fought for 'yes' in the recent referendum. With all our forces, we have fought, because we believe - and we still believe - that a clear 'yes' would greatly facilitate our country's position in these difficult circumstances, a 'yes' in Europe so that there are no misunderstandings. Having given this battle with confidence and braveness, we believe that no one can deny us the right to make two bitter remarks to our European friends. The first bitter remark relates to their attitude before the referendum, when their statements from a high point of view actually brought the opposite result from what they were supposed to have sought. When the hearts of many Greeks and Greeks said 'no' and their minds said 'yes', these statements came too and made the spiral turn towards 'no' even when the mind was pushing towards 'yes'. And they are fellow citizens who believe very deeply in Europe. The second criticism - and perhaps it is more important - is that after the referendum we see many Europeans showing an impressive lack of magnanimity, a attitude which does not at all remind of the adult attitude which Mrs Lagard invoked in previous abstentions of her speech. When the neighbor's house burns, it's not the time to remember that when he had a party last weekend, you were disturbed by his music, which was too strong. You do everything you can to save the neighbor and his home and the rules of the tolerable noise levels at the future parties, you take care of them right after. Unfortunately, at the moment, we do not see the necessary or expected magnificence. While we believe that European leaders really have a leading front, they see - or they should show that they see - that it is not allowed and that it is shameful in a European country that is inhabited by European citizens, men and women, in the 21st century to happen what is threatening to happen to us in the next few weeks. Because we belong to his supporters "yes", we call them with great seriousness and consciousness of our responsibilities to be lifted to the extent of the circumstances. And we are doing this in the name of the United Europe for which we are fighting with great faith. In this surrounding atmosphere, our collective attitude towards immigrants, immigrants and their children is at risk of being deformed and misunderstood. The immigrants and migrants who came to Greece shared our destiny at good times and bad times and left behind debris, the debris of their countries, whether they were in the Balkans, either in Eastern Europe later in the Middle East or in North Africa, or in cases of countries that were flirting with civil wars or war riots. They came, they worked, they worked, they overcome, they overcome adversities. When some of our fellow citizens cursed them as strangers and assailants, they remained and proved how unfair they were. Ladies and gentlemen, as an economist, I can tell you that I see the impact of the first and second waves of migrants coming in the 1990s having a very positive effect on the Greek economy. If you want, it was perhaps the only most important factor that ensured these growth rates and stimulation of the economy. Interestingly, too, in many fears, while increasing the workforce by 12% - this is a very great increase in international data - at the same time reducing unemployment. And you know why? They didn't take our jobs, they made jobs. And by making jobs and taking care of their own advance, they also made the lives of all the rest of us much better. But as a university teacher I must tell you that with great pride I read excellent writings from students and students whose name alone shows that they have origins other than Greek. I see these children participating in the achievements and the struggles and hopes of all the children of their age. In short, these people then and their children have now helped us in the good times and made them better and difficult were here again. And now that the worst is threatened, they share the agony with us and put back on the difficulties. I'll tell you a completely Greek story. My parents came in 1992 from Albania, worked very hard, put their child to school, collected their savings, which in 1997 were completely lost in the shape of the "pyramids" of that time in the neighbouring country. They stayed, continued, worked, saved. Their daughter excelled, now ended the university and took a small scholarship for a postgraduate in Germany and her grandfather in Tirana sold his home to help his gifted granddaughter. And they brought their money to the European Union, to the Greek bank. And now her child and family wonders what will happen, how she will be able to leave, how she will succeed in accomplishing what she and her family, two generations, have worked very hard. Because immigrants were with us in the easy and are still with us and in the difficult circumstances, because they have met the obligations of the Greek citizen, it is time to welcome them as well. The debate on immigration cannot continue to be dominated by myths and fears. The debate must begin by saying, at last, that the children of immigrants are not immigrants, they are Greek and Greek. And we cannot continue to deal with the oppressed refugees from Syria in the same way, the previous desperate economic immigrants and the children who were born or raised in Greece and who are located in Greek schools and universities. We must finally understand that if we do not give full rights to these children and to these young people, we cannot deal with any other category than those who need our help. It is therefore a very long time for us in Potami that this law on citizenship has come. It is a very great honour, and I want to say this openly, because there has been enough noise and many misunderstandings about an amendment that we tabled in Article 1 and which we understood in committee, and the Minister has repeated today, is not acceptable. We believe that this law is dealing with many of the loose ends that hypocrisy and lack of political will on the part of the older governments, with the only bright exception of the Ragonism Act, which, however, was against an institutional wall. We believe it is the task of all the progressive forces, all the Europeans and Europeans to do what we can to suppress the law, not just pass it. I do not want to explain exactly why we wanted a different wording in Article 1. I could say that a child doesn't need citizenship to feel good in the first grade. I cannot imagine that the children whose parents are immigrants and immigrants in the first grade are also holding the nationality certificate to be accepted. There is indeed a question of accepting the different people and children in schools, but this is not dealt with by showing a certificate, it is dealt with in a direction that celebrates diversity, diversity, enrichment and the value of equality for all people. And the demonstration of a certificate, even if it were true, would create other walls between the children who are entitled to it and the children who have to wait to finish the third grade or the second grade to reach citizenship. So the basic issue - and I think that the political system should turn more carefully - is how it enriches the values, principles and attitudes of the school in favour of equality and respect for any diversity. We have made several comments on the articles. Some of them also refer to the Scientific Service of the Parliament. I would not like to expand, I would just like to propose a legislative improvement to Article 2 and paragraph 5 on applications. It would be possible for people who have a pending application to reapply in a much simpler process, as well as for pending applications for the physicalisation of retired and homosexuals to have a later date. I understand, of course, that the provision of a law on end dates will not say that the problem is automatically solved, because there is a whole administrative workload, which often does not conflict with good and bad mood, simply incompetence or an exceptional workload. What I would like to point out, however, is that, while our country, all together, is giving a very great battle to remain at the core of Europe, to continue to be Europeans and Europeans, at this point in time the vote on the citizenship and other provisions is a lasting act of European perspective, it is a demonstration that we are Europeans and we will continue to feel Europeans and Europeans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u149	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. We also want to salute from this step those workers who fought against false trapping dilemmas, all those who, in conditions of ideological terrorism, tolerance, anguish for daily survival because of the restrictions on banking transactions, payroll, redundancies, and redundancies, have fought to make the position of the Communist Party of Greece known for 'no' to the proposal of the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, 'no' to the Greek Government' proposal for release from the European Union to power. The economic and political processes followed and the joint communiqué demonstrate how popular votes are used as supposedly the adoption of the people to close a new anti-grass agreement - a memorandum with the European Union, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund. We are addressing the workers' strata and we invite them to organise the resistance to anti-popular policy that continues with the people's bankruptcy. We call on the working people's movement to develop its own line and to unite in anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly direction. Not to be trapped in the theories of the subjection and unity that are being promoted, because the interests of the working class are contrary to those of capitalists, their imperialist alliances and the governments of capital. As far as the bill is concerned, especially about citizenship, as we were in the first place when it was discussed in plenary days ago, our party - we said it, and then we say it now - had a completely different approach. This approach stems from the position that there is no discrimination in the rights of any child. That is why, in the context of claiming and fighting for years now, the full rights to all children of migrants born or raised in Greece are, without any separation, in accordance with the status of the legality of their parents. Secondly, registering in special polls of the municipalities inhabited and, thirdly, the self-righteous acquisition of Greek citizenship by their adulthood, if they so wish. We note that the arrangements of this bill are worse than those of previous law, of 3838/2010, especially those concerning child's parental residence permits, on the grounds of adapting to the decision of the Council of State. Of course, it gives citizenship to immigrant children who have strong and long-lasting residence permits. For this very reason, that is to say, some immigrant children who have the preconditions of the bill and that only through the acquisition of citizenship they will be able to have equal rights, we would vote in favour of Article 1. Of course, the Minister has broken it into Article 1a, 1b for other reasons, but we are a positive one. In the same direction, we place ourselves on Article 2, which includes transitional provisions, as well as on Article 3, which replaces Article 19 of the Code of Hellenic citizenship and enables the child who has acquired the Greek nationality, being a minor, that is, at the request of his parents, to be able to request when it is adulterated. With regard to Article 4, we consider that the Code of Greek citizenship has unacceptable provisions that need to be amended, such as the question of naturalisation, as well as the fact that criminal obstacles remain, namely resistance to the principle, slandering, public order and security and the conditions, such as, for example, incorporation and agreement with the political system, as well as the high paradox in force. With regard to Articles 5 and 6, which incorporate the Directives of the European Union, 98/2011 and 36/2014 respectively, we are voting against Article 5 on the basis of our disagreement and our complete opposition to the European Union's policy, which is incorporating this directive, since immigration is directly linked to the labour market, namely the exploitation of wage labour and even worse conditions than local workers, despite all declarations on equal rights. In Article 6 we shall be voting 'at present' because it is recognized in words and with exceptions of some paid equality of rights. As far as the seasonal workers are concerned and the revocation referred to in Article 7 are concerned, we are voting against it, because it adapts even more to the invitation of migrant workers by an employer for a specific time and concerns a specific job. It is therefore more appropriate to adapt to the needs of employers, in line with the basic principle of selective and so-called 'cyclical' migration, which is, of course, the cornerstone of the European Union's migration policy and capital. At the same time, it worsens the existing legislation on the seasonal work of migrants. Article 8, on emblematic provisions and on individual regulation issues, sees it positive and we shall vote 'in favour'. Article 9 concerns services responsible for the absorption of funds. Rule 10 will be seen again, because there are some improvements, from what I saw quickly, Minister. First of all, we think it is a good thing that the children of immigrants who are attending a Greek school, victims and witnesses of racist violence are not allowed to be expelled. But we would like a response from the Minister to form our vote on Article 10. We would therefore like to ask the following question: first, if immigrants say they want to leave the country voluntarily, they lose their right to work all the time until the time they leave? Secondly, we ask that you see and dismantle the regulation of the n. Article 37(5) of Regulation (EEC) No 3907/2011 and, in particular, Article 37(5) that migrants, whose expulsion has been postponed, will be able to work in the so-called 'free economic zones', i.e. in terms of remuneration, work and insurance, which are worse than for the rest of the workers, even under which national collective agreements exist. In fact, that is why there was also an amendment to it. We will be putting the amendments tomorrow. As far as Article 11 is concerned, we have disagreed with the so-called 'one-stop Services' because the only aim is to reduce services and those who serve immigrant demands, to concentrate them and the suffering of immigrants. We shall therefore vote 'the present'. With Article 12, which concerns arrangements for homosexuals, we are in favour. With regard to Article 13, is it related to the legislation on citizenship, Minister? I mean the creation of a public limited company managing natural gas, for which the government has not submitted any plans. He's creating an anonymous company. Is it a matter of citizenship? I don't think so. Why did you reject as 'non-relevant' the amendment tabled by the Communist Party of Greece concerning the inclusion in the arrangements for the insurance contributions of farmers who could not be paid? And we're talking about two hundred and fifty thousand people! Is that not a serious matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u151	This is an urgent matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u152	I am sorry, but at the same time that you do not accept our amendment, you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Lambroulis, you better know the Rules of Procedure. No dialogue with the Minister. Say what you want and he can answer if he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u154	I say what I want. The Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u155	If the Minister wants to answer, she'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, take note of the Minister. I'm looking at her, looking at me, but I'm talking. Now, if she talks herself, you will judge that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u157	Especially when the speaker speaks, he speaks to the House and not to the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u158	I'm coming back to this. At the same time and perhaps well - I have not seen the amendment, I must say - you are accepting another amendment concerning insurance. Why don't you take her? We're waiting for an answer. At the same time, both the Commission and the first debate, we tabled concrete proposals in the Minutes. Did you consider them? We need an answer! These are four key issues with some subdivisions in respect of point 3. Soon I'll repeat it in summary, as I have the time. We say, firstly, that we need to abolish the requirement that parents hold certain residence permits. You know that about half of them are the so-called 'legitimate immigrants' who do not have the permission for long stays. In order to obtain this licence, an income of 8,500 euros is required, with an increase of 15% for each protected member of the family. What about those who don't have this income? So will some "immigrant" be excluded, some children? Secondly, we ask and propose to abolish the paradoxes, which are unfair and especially in the current poverty situation, not only of Greeks but also of migrants. It's unbearable. Thirdly, on the issue of seasonal workers, we have made concrete proposals. We are talking about the provision of accommodation that it is undone by the proposal of the bill, in fact, by the employer's obligation to provide accommodation. As far as the withdrawal of the two months is concerned, we're talking about three, as it was before. Also for the insurance contributions, which you put in insurance contributions for a month, abolishing the two-month period. And much more and by the way, we put it in the first debate, we say: the question of safeguarding the workers of the land, the Greeks and the foreigners. We say they need to join the IKA rather than the OGA. We believe that there is no real reason, but also a legal reason for this distinction, since they provide work. We therefore believe that the trick of their insurance in the OGA saves employers contributions, because insurance in the OGA is cheaper, but at the expense of total social security. The fourth point concerns the incorporation of the two directives. Unacceptable exceptions are introduced into the bill in terms of equality of rights for migrants, which are not mandatory by the directives, but you put them. We therefore say in this direction that these exceptions must be abolished and even proclamationally there should be no exception to so-called 'equal treatment', i.e., to 'populated' labour and social rights. Otherwise, employers are depopulating - which have already depopulated with all this legal arsenal that they have behind them - completely and trespassing every right. We'll count "Manololes" in the future all the time. For the last time - and I am closing down with this, Mr President - we ask the government to take a serious look at the amendment we have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u159	And I, Mr. Lambroulis, and for saving time. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. Here, Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go far, because our view is that today we should not even discuss our position on the draft bill. We've been through this on several occasions. We have talked about it in our first place. That is why I will only focus on the following: As regards Article 1, which was legally distinguished at 1 and 1a, I would say that it marks the whole bill. Our position is that the character that is wrongly given in the performance of citizenship as a lever for pressure from some very sensitive groups, despite their unadulterated will to use the request for citizenship to obtain a legal arsenal for protecting their social rights, gives a bad text to the whole bill but also positive expressions. That's why I think he's cheating, he's wrong, he's not supposed to. We had proposed reaching compulsory education, full compulsory education, so as to ensure that these children, at that point in time, would have their willingness to acquire that national conscience that would allow them to acquire Greek citizenship with free will. However, at the same time we proposed, because there is indeed a huge social issue with the non-performance of rights in these children, in order to join the Greek society in the years until the completion of compulsory education, that these rights should be awarded independently of Greek citizenship, so that - let us say - they can be entered in the polls and have a enjoyment of equal rights in their apprenticeship - learning life until the completion of compulsory education. So what did we actually say? We removed from the rest of the citizenship cover the real legal arsenal that would be given - and now given - with the nationality of the child, we give the legal arsenal to the child and we give him citizenship later. It makes very sense, it removes any argument of a humanitarian nature. But it was not accepted. So do you understand that, in addition to the pretext - in my view - of this provision, a pretext that is based mainly on the fact that you are giving both in immature situations and in poor political situations, citizenship, to people who do not ask for it, but that it is being broken, in fact what you are doing? You give some groups, especially weak socially and economically, a citizenship and you will receive as your reward the school leak, which is almost certain in a large percentage. I have heard from the Minister at previous meetings say 'Will we legislate on assumptions that there will be a school leak in the future'. But is it not a case that they will be able to complete this training? And is it not, with great probability, that the school drain, when these children belong to weak social and economic groups, where, of course, their parents, as we have seen it happen with other social groups that are already bound by the obligability of education to do so? They leave school with parental conquest, just to cut home incomes at a little older ages of seven and eight. We will create, ladies and gentlemen, with certainty - but it will be too late, when we see it - a community of poor, uneducated people, which is unprotected and we will have practically ghettoized these people. However, in Article 1 - because we are talking about the articles - there is also the paragraph g, where a legislative delegation, ladies and gentlemen, is given to the Minister or Minister concerned, in order to change the documents required to establish this right. You are also doing the same in Article 1a(8). It is a legislative delegation which effectively cancels the legislative initiative, the legislative will of all of us today, because imagine whether, in this dominant issue of the documents required, the supporting documents which are based on this right come with a legislative authority, freely, without any evidence being specified, the Minister concerned has to change these, what is the point today of what we are voting on? In Article 1a(5)a and 5b there is the insistence on the bill that studies have been completed in the twenty-third year of age. To date, for many years now, the legislator has wisely predicted the completion of the twenty-first year of the age of these studies. What for? Because the sooner the studies are completed, the closer we are to the large percentage of national and social consciousness. If a person has a national and social conscience, a different person from the Greek, complete study later in Greece, what exactly does it make sense? Does this have anything to do with Greek citizenship and national conscience? Obviously not. That is why the legislator so far had predicted the 20th year of age and we insist on it. That's why we think it's wrong to insist on five seconds and five. Now let's go to Articles 7 and 8. In these articles, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to repeat myself, I would say that last time I mentioned the decision of the UN Commission on Human Rights of 17 March 2014. At that time, he was unfortunately absent - the representative of the Hellenic Republic. The decision is essentially in favour that all human rights have been violated in Greece, in order to achieve budgetary objectives, in order to serve external debt, and that - and that is the important point - it was unacceptable under the rules of international law and that the human rights project should be promoted humanitarianly. Today, however, I see in these extremely difficult economic conditions that the Hellenic Republic and the Greek economy are in difficulty meeting its basic obligations towards Greek citizens, with ease - while we are not required by the respective 2011 and 2014 Directives - to grant benefits policy rights to seasonal or longer-term workers in Greece foreigners. The incorporation of the directives, you know, must be read in detail, because with wisdom the Union legislator has provided for exceptions in terms of subsidised policy, because he just wanted to take into account the economic specificity and economic specificities of each society, every nation and every state, how much more so in today's economic situation, which is so great that we ourselves are in doubt at the moment when we are talking about how easily we will be able to give the benefits to the Greek citizens. If this is shared with others, will the situation not make it difficult? Does he really not, at the time when we are talking about, do the enthusiasm ruler really have to propose his will to protect the rights of Greek citizens? It is obvious - at least in our opinion - that both Articles 7(5) and (6) and Article 8, which refer to this subsidy policy, are in the wrong direction. With regard to Article 8, paragraph 7 makes a special reference to the circumstances in which, in the case of victims of domestic violence, a residence permit may be granted and even a residence permit may be issued, which shall have a duration or may reach a period of three years. Look, for us at least that we have been dealing with and conducting a fighting law for several years, the trick of family violence, in fact, in people who are in despair, is very easy. I'm not talking about the rest. I've specifically chosen family violence. I pointed it out to the committee too. I pointed it out from the outset and at the outset my position. I'm reiterating it. You will see cases where with ease people - couples essentially - will memorize each other so that they will just get legal ground to apply for the residence permit. He wants special attention to be paid to this. I appeal to see it again. In Article 8(f), again, it is the reference made to Directives 36/2014, 98/2011, where I must repeat exactly the same thing I have said before about the policy on benefits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I just want a minute, Mr President. To conclude by saying that by listening to the Minister earlier to speak of an amendment to the criminal offence involving the transfer of migrants without permission - I have not seen this amendment and I imagine that any of you until now - I want to see this amendment with a lot of thought. We must not rush on that thinking. You should be aware that we will open a very large portal for illicit trafficking and trafficking. The tricks that can be destroyed and invoked are too much. If we're going to think of leaving such a ferry, we'll all be accountable to ourselves a few years later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Mavraani, please don't go because I didn't understand anything. You have referred to some of the amendments. It does not exist in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u162	Yeah. I heard the Minister mention. Was I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u163	Mrs Christodoulou, do you intend to bring in any further amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u164	No, I've testified her. It is an amendment by the SYRIZA Members, who are talking about the abolition of the transport felony for Lesvos, which is about sixty kilometers. If the district can rent coaches...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u165	Okay, don't analyze it. It is one of those that you are already in place and you have said that you have accepted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u166	Yeah, yeah. I've accepted her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u167	So there is. Look for her. All right, Mr. Mavraani, and excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u168	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u169	It's not like Mr. Mavraganis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u170	Last special speaker from PASOK, Arvanitidis Georgios. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has been heard here that one of the tactics of the states may be to raise walls. Do you know what's going on in history? Those peoples raised walls, at the end they themselves threw them, all together, because they were caught in them. This is as an observation. Today we are called upon to comment on articles of a draft law very important to social justice and social cohesion. With the government's laudable tactics, we are also discussing this draft law in 'and five'. We accept many of us that the provisions for restoring injustice to children and young people are urgent for ethical reasons. A lot more urgent for practical reasons is the arrangements concerning the management of migratory flows and financing by the European Union, precisely to deal with them. There are people, women and children trying to survive, and the government is just an observer. You have no sense of urgency, ladies and gentlemen, in this government. Sunday's referendum was held, to ask for national conciliation in retrospect. The PASOK National Covenant has repeatedly called for it, not at the first time, to be taken over by the government, but at the very first moment in the crisis. You were devastated then and some of you bet on splitting. Now we hope you're actually landing and hope it's not too late for the country. We have taken our full responsibility as a party to the Opposition. We are not undermining the national effort, as you have done in the recent past. Now it is left to the government to prove that it assumes its responsibility, the responsibility you did not take over all the previous period. The command you've given is not an order to break. You have to find a solution, achieve a sustainable solution that ensures the country's equitable stay in Europe and in the euro. You have to govern for the benefit of the country and its citizens, for banks to open up, for the liquidity to be restored to the market and for the daily lives of the citizens and for the state to function, so that it is not the hope that you have just promised an election slogan. It's very strange today. Under normal circumstances, the draft law would have been discussed some time ago and today would have been the law of the Greek state. Today we cannot even safely say what our position in the European family is. A component of Greek citizenship has been questioned by you and the partner lenders - or whatever you say - in the European Union. I hope the adventure that we live as a nation has a good ending. The irony is that, together with the issue of citizenship, we are discussing two European directives, which are accepted by the overwhelming majority of the House, but also an amendment to regulate how we will finance the management of migration flows with European natural money. We all know that the reason for the delay in discussing the draft law was your strategic choice, so that there are no intra-governmental disputes in the crucial for you, but also for the country, a period of time. It is annoying that you have decided to interrupt Parliament's legislative work last week. You said that you did so that Members could go to their constituency to inform the people of the referendum. On Monday and Tuesday the House met for another more friendly draft law. So the conclusion is that it was very critical the previous Wednesday for informing the citizens, but Monday and Tuesday were not. There is, I imagine, awkwardness to your government partners. They want to talk about national dividends and traitors, but also to enjoy the polite euphoria of the victory of Sunday's referendum. Today, according to 'a little pregnant', for them you are 'a few shareholders', ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I remind you of Mr Haikalis' position a week ago when he said a lot of creepy things. I am keeping what he said 'how much I am interested in European legislation'. Look next to you to understand how European you are giving the country. After the referendum, you have lowered tons and we hope that your change of attitude will continue. We're tired of your tactical moves. The country can't stand them anymore. The Minister, in her honour, tried to avoid tension in the previous meetings in committee and in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Interior has opened the way, despite the initial disagreements of the New Democracy, to deal with and heal the problem arising from the decision of the Council of State. The New Democracy must prove that it is consistent, at least by voting on what it has proposed. It will only be able to claim that it is actually included in the European front. The Minister did what you asked her to do. With the separation of the articles, you are now given the opportunity to vote for the acquisition of citizenship by means of a student. We are consistent with our principles. Again, PASOK doesn't put the rights of our children into any micro-participatory balances. He will vote for the Minister's proposal and not the government's, because the draft law does not have the government's declared name. With our votes, it will be voted on by the votes of the opposition. I have made you in committee a reservation concerning the ability of the administration to meet the needs of the new provisions. When Mr.3838/2010 was applied, many children could not apply for, because of the bureaucracy they did not have permission in their hands. By transferring the powers of migration from the municipalities to the decentralised administrations of 2011, a new era began that was completed by the resolution of the Code of Migration a year ago. The results of this methodical reform are seen today, which in most cases permits are issued quickly. We have five hundred and twenty-seven thousand permits in force today, and a year ago we had about four hundred and fifty thousand. At the same time, as a result of a series of arrangements, the possibility of the award of migrants has been reduced to a minimum. In adopting the law, it goes without saying that the administration will have to deal first with the pending requests from the previous law. At the same time the system will be under pressure from all categories of beneficiaries. We can objectively say that older children, those who are adult, must be served more quickly. Their needs are immediate and have been more unfair than the delay in the treatment of the problems arising from the decision of the S.H.E. We should therefore give the administration a chance to breathe and deal with the most urgent issues. We have proposed that you use the provision of our own plan, which provides for an alternative written test, to dismantle the services from the first generation. You have not even raised yourself in this regard. It is, however, hypocritical not to bother children’s parents, for which you have such good words to say. We're not saying that you're just giving your parents citizenship. But we want the opportunity to examine their request quickly. I hear that there is a great deal of delay in your ministry, even by promoting the procedures for people who have already been positively passed by the Committees on naturalisation. Something is wrong, and we hope the delay is not intentional. However, the question that you have to answer is a very serious one. Is the current procedure only symbolic, or do you really want to give rights and citizenship to people? There is a possibility that the increased turnout of beneficiaries will make the citizenship services of receiving requests rather than their examination. I suggest that you transfer by one year - and please listen to what I say - the start of the application of paragraph 1. A small legal improvement needs the last article. In practice, this arrangement will speed up and will not delay the yield of citizenship to children. You must also reinstate provisions for homosexuals, which you do not include in your plan. The devices are in your hands and you can do it. You must not wait for the committee to draft the Code of Nationality for such urgent matters. I have seen that you have given many people through the committee. After we give you the parliamentary majority in most of them, why do you not implement them now? I understand that you do not want to touch the issue of immigration policy. But you could even tell us a word about it, whether it's in your design or not. We are not forgetting the attacks that we have taken from you on this whole issue. Now you're government and you can't escape. As far as the issues regulated by the transposition of the two directives are concerned, I will make a few comments. You see that the European Union is not a 'bulk' or an enemy of immigrants or anything else. There have now been progressive arrangements for the rights of immigrants and the organisation of seasonal work, with which we cannot disagree. The central idea of the directives we are debating today is that migrant workers must enjoy equal treatment with Europeans and their Greek colleagues on a long range of issues. Equal treatment is not a concession to immigrants. If this does not exist, the labour market is distorted, conditions are created for cheap labour hands which in the end essentially fall to the detriment of Greek workers. I would like to reinstate today the link between the seasonal work directive and the right to work for foreigners and asylum seekers. We do not need seasonal workers who will now come into the economic crisis with huge labour rates if we make use of the local workforce. The OAED must finally function in the rural area and the seasonal jobs must be occupied by internally mobile workers. The performance of the right to work in the removals to be deferred can act as an incentive to record non-documented migrants. The law of PASOK, n. 3907/2011, enables you to return this temporary regime to a large number of people. With this provision, the Independent Greeks disagree. They're doing what they don't understand? Don't they really understand? They said that n. 3907/2011 is a Memorandum Law. Solve the matter between you, after you have already told all tons that the full implementation of the law is required. We're in this with you. We suggest that you allow immigrants without paperwork to apply for status and give them the right to work with the police decision. The police should issue, once the application is made, a return decision and, at the same time, a deferral decision that, if the services are able to withstand it, may have a shorter duration than the one provided for by the law, so that if immigrants are immediately deportable, they can be deported. In the period between now and the decision, however, immigrants should be able to work legally. It goes without saying that refugees from war zones and if they do not want to apply for asylum, they should immediately be entitled to work with the duration of six months under the law. Let's set it up in transition, so we don't have to wait for the CIA's publication. With regard to the arrangements - additions to the Immigration Code, I would like to ask you to be careful not to disturb the good functioning of services that operate for the benefit of immigrants. You introduce many accusations which differentiate what has so far been made by recourse to the system of exceptional reasons. The arrangement you found ready to restore to the legality of immigrants who completed five years of residence permits in the past ten years, facilitates access to the other categories in the existing system of exceptional reasons. It is not administratively correct to refer other cases to decentralised administrations. Upon the beginning of the system, it is a pity to sabotage it with this decision. Do you have a picture of the number of people who can be subject to these arrangements? Do you know how many hours they'll be added? Have you taken into account the possibility of developing corruption circuits? Let's leave the extra categories you brought after the consultation and see the real needs of the services. Try the application of the new system to decentralised administrations and then come and change what is possible administratively. It would also be appropriate to amend the transitional provision on the same subject in order to take four years in the previous ten for those who have already submitted an application to the Ministry of the Interior. In this way you will earn the time lost by delaying the adoption of the relevant regulation. Minister, with the Code of Migration we have simplified the procedures and reduced the required documents by making use of all the means that give us the information systems of the state. Don't change the logic and spirit of the code. We have no problem with the legalisation of people living and joining the country. Keep any changes you want, but the services of the Ministry of Interior. To close, I can only refer to the issues of the management of mixed flows, which are basically refugee flows. We have seen with interest the amendment that you have tabled in order to organise the management of European funds for the 2014-2020 programming period. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u172	You have it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u173	In 2010 and 2011 PASOK, with Action Plan, adopted by the European Commission and its resolution n. 3907/2011, laid down new, modern and effective rules for the management of mixed migration flows. You didn't vote for him. 3907/2011, you did not support the implementation of Action Plan, but today is the basis of your policy. You've managed the matter in communications so far. You created a Ministry of Immigration, which, for the first time, had no Minister, had no authority. You're confused with the Citizen's Department. You did activisms in Amygdaleza, and then you retreated. You held meetings and visits and argued - rather memorablely - that you urged the committee to change European immigration policy. You didn't prepare yourself, but how do you prepare yourself? With what resources? We understand that, as far as human resources are concerned, Mr Katrugalos's view is dominant: 'The public is not a service to the citizens, but a working refuge'. With the restoration of injustice, as the law adopted has been called into question, you have created a turmoil within the summer in the operation of the asylum service. If one considers that you are now Deputy Ministers at the same Ministry for better coordination, the following question arises who will coordinate the coordinators. As far as the financial resources are concerned, what can one say? Unfortunately, you are bound and victim of the political negotiation and free whack of the Prime Minister and the financial staff. You haven't left a single euro on the fund. If health is a priority, education, reception of refugees, if anything else is a priority, you had to prove it by giving the money. They will not sleep in solidarity theories and will not eat sensitive communications from refugees. We don't want you to fail. It will be at the expense of social cohesion. The only ones who have to win from your failure are the xenophobs and the racists. But you should know that we don't give anyone a white cheque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u174	I would now like to have an agreement before I hand over the seat to Mrs Charalapidou. Tonight we'll go by 12:00. I would like the parliamentary representatives to tell me at some point if they want to speak tonight to follow the 'five Members' system - a parliamentarian. So far no one has asked me to speak, but we need to know how to make our programming unless they want to talk tomorrow. Otherwise, we will enter the list of speakers. Mr. Blonde has asked for the floor to defend...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u175	I have been appointed, Mr President, a parliamentary representative, and I want to speak this evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u176	Good. You will speak after the first five Members to speak. I note, Mr. Constantopoulos, that you will speak tonight. Mr Blonde will speak to defend an amendment. I would like to say to Mrs Christodoulopoulos that, first of all, the amendment to which Mr Mavraanis referred was not a parliamentarian, but was a ministerial one. That's to write right in the Minutes. Secondly, I believe that it is in your knowledge and you will have taken care of it, but I am obliged to tell you, because otherwise there may be a formal problem, that Mr Tsakalotos returns to send paper to the Government Secretariat that he accepts the bill. Why does Mr Varoufakis sign this amendment and despite the obvious nature of it, there must be this paper in order to ensure that the bill is incomplete? Mr. Xanthos, do you get five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u177	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u178	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, I would like to make two amendments from the Ministry of Health. I believe that in a bill that strengthens our state's rightful core are related amendments that support and strengthen people's fundamental right to care. One of these two amendments concerns the treatment of delayed debts by hospitals to their suppliers, it concerns the treatment of specific problems in two hospitals, Samos Hospital and the UNHCR, where due to multiple bureaucratic problems there has been a difficulty in authorising and paying suppliers for a long time, which is being dealt with. It is also about the possibility of health centres, which we know very well that after the n. 4238/1-1-2015 have been administratively subject to the DPOs, but they were unprepared to meet their supply needs. We give an extension of six months to the extension given by the last law, n. Date of birth: 4316. We take it until the end of the year to facilitate the supply of essential materials, sanitary materials, reagents, etc. for health centres, which have been in a very difficult position today because of this change which has taken place without preparation. This one amendment regulates such issues as better supply of health establishments, hospitals and health centres. The second amendment concerns the administrations of hospitals and the Minister's right to cease the current administrations without harm to the public and to choose the new administrations, the new administrations, the subordinates and the members of the boards appointed by the Minister. This amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u180	Will the new commanders come in?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u181	Let the Minister finish. He'll explain it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u182	I'll answer that, Mr. Comrade. We all realise that the question of the management of the health system is very critical. We do not think that the problem of the health system is basically administrative. We believe that the problem of the health system is mainly a matter of political direction and political priorities. Many administrative models have changed in the health system over the past 15 years, without addressing its pathogens and distortions. There have been models with simple presidents of management boards. There have been manager models, without the participation of workers and doctors. There was the last model with the managers, who had increased responsibilities and powers. We believe that the real issue is the political direction of the health system. Nevertheless, we consider that at the critical juncture of the health system, it is the government's right and duty to choose people who can support its political plan in the field of health. The previous administrations of hospitals, commanders and sub-governments were selected to serve a completely different political project, leading to a downgrading of services, high degradation, merging and changes in the institutions, which provided for cutting down of departments and clinics to a major overthrow in the structure and functioning of the system. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] Therefore, for the majority of them, regardless of their technological qualifications and their adequacy, we believe that today they cannot respond to the political priorities of the new government. Obviously, there will also be people who have shown themselves to be cooperative during their term of office, who have been able to deal with the issues of the daily life of hospitals with sensitivity and work with the human resources. Some of them will probably be evaluated positively and can also be exploited by our Government, just as it was with the administrations of the Ministrys, where three subordinates from the seven Ministrys were chosen to remain and today they continue to offer their services as system managers. We believe that this change of administration is a social requirement today. It is not a party obsession with state control, as you may blame us. We believe that the majority of today's commanders, with their actions and their omissions, but in particular with their behaviour, have annoyed the human potential of the health system, which, under very difficult conditions, is now being called upon to offer services and have played a leading role in the interventions of authoritarianism towards workers who had taken the lead in mobilisation in the area of public hospitals. They have created many problems even at this transitional period of five months, during which they have remained in place. That is why we are tabling the amendment until we go to another model, which we are evangelizing and which we believe in the next year we will be able to bring it in the form of a bill. We are talking about a new administrative model for the health system at all levels, namely at the level of the Ministry of Health and Hospitals, with a more democratic choice and not a ministerial choice of the administrations, with the other composition of the administrative boards, with increased participation of both workers and receiving health services and local communities, with the institutions of accountability and social control of administrations, so that it can be founded on societies and in the country, that the fewer human and material resources that exist at the present time are shared fairly, that there is a democratic planning of health services based on the real health needs of the regions, based on medical and epidemiological data and not on known customer and local interventions and functions. This, in our view, will be a serious resolution in the management of the health system. We have not had the opportunity in this five-month period to move on and as a transitional arrangement we prefer this amendment which we are tabling today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Georgiadis, you are obviously asking why, to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u186	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u187	So I'm putting on your time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u188	Yes, Mr. President. I'll use my dentistry time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u189	Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u190	Minister, I admire you. Your speech was really excellent. If I hadn't been a Minister of Health, you might have convinced me. I am referring to the first amendment on the legalisation of so-called non-contractual expenditure. We will be voting in favour of it. You know, Minister, last year, when I had brought my amendment to it, what was Mr Kurublis, the current Minister for Health, on the amendment on the legalisation of non-contractual expenditure? Tomorrow I will take the Minutes and read to you what SYRIZA said last year about a similar amendment. There was also a front page in one of your own newspapers, "THEI", for "Georgiadis scandal" and extra-contractual expenses. Look, Minister, how power changes them! What you said last year is a scandal, you are now introducing it as Minister, because - he says - you did not have time! But we are not SYRIZA, and we say that hospitals should really be able to pay their expenses and not be at risk for the patient's lives. So we will not plunder, as you plundered last year in this Chamber for exactly the same things. That's our difference. Let us accept here, Mr President, that there is an emergency, even though you had five months to bring it. In any case, let us say that there is an emergency element, because some hospitals may be left with materials if this amendment is not voted on. As a sign of responsibility, we vote for it. But I would like, Mr President, before I answer the Minister, to ask a question to the Bureau. Mrs Konstantopoulou has made a commitment that late amendments which are tabled in relation to the draft law under discussion will not even be put to the vote. I would very much like the Bureau to tell me, after I conclude, whether the Bureau accepts and whether the honourable Member accepts an amendment, which obviously does not have any point - nor did we hear from the Minister any point - to substantiate the urgency and why we must violate all the principles set by Mrs Constantopoulos in this House and discuss this amendment. However, this is a point of order and I would like the Bureau to reply. Let us now see what the Minister said about what this amendment says. To understand this, the Minister - not you, Mr Katrugale, I am referring to Mr Xanthos - has promised that they will soon bring in a new law on a new model for the appointment of hospital administrations, which will not be a ministerial body, but will be on merit and everything he has said. But until they are able to bring it, they are asking for the legislative authority so that the Minister can appoint anyone he wants. Excuse me, but that's all SYRIZA can do. You are at the same time announcing that you will bring a plan that will be non-ministerial, with transparent and pragmatic criteria, but because that is the right thing to do, you are asking the House today to grant you legislative authorization for the exact backwards so that the Minister can do what he wants for two years. I confess, Mr. Xanthi, that this is beyond your rhetorical cowardice. However, let us talk about the essence of the matter. First of all, in order for this House to know, the Minister for Health has the opportunity today to cease any commander who wants from those who have mentioned, the bad people who make incidents and who do not find them with the workers. Whoever you want to get him out. Who told you you can't? How can you? In line with the procedure, i.e. by submitting an assessment report, stating what the problems that this commander caused and explaining with figures are. For example, we have set criteria for payment of time limits, patient care, such objective criteria. So bring any commander you don't like, make an evaluation report and get him out. You don't do this, Minister, because you don't care to tell who's good at and who's bad or who's bad at his job and who doesn't do his job. You're interested in dismantling all the old commanders or even the ones you didn't find with them to put your own. In fact, on what criteria? In fact, on what criteria? Whoever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u191	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u192	Excuse me now. I'll ask you questions. Don't be in a hurry. First, then, tell us why you do not choose the evaluation report procedure provided for in the existing law and to take out any commander you do not want. The second question: here in the explanatory statement you say 'due to the failure of the governors to perform their duties'. All commanders, that is. I'm sure any commander you're making on the basis of what you're writing here, except the second one I'll tell you later, will take you to court for slandering - and he'll do well! - and, personally, you who write that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You say that all commanders are incapable. Yes, sir! And that they might be at risk of lives. Yes, sir! Aren't you telling me, Minister, the damages they will claim and will probably get in the case-law of the courts, will you guarantee them with your personal property, or will you charge it to the Greek State? Because I imagine that you have a lawyer at the Ministry to explain to you that the House too is also entitled to vote for the 'damagely' you are writing here, has been judged by the Marios Ice that the House cannot come and change a working relationship, Mr President, which is damaging to the person who has signed it. And that the signature of the Greek State is valid. So you get people who have three years of contract paid for three years on the basis of their contract and who, in order to stop being paid, have to follow a specific procedure. You will legislate here to violate the procedure, they will of course go to the courts and receive all the sum due in interest after a few years. You won't be Minister, and that's what the Greek taxpayer will pay for. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you want to fill out that you'll pay for it from your property if that happens? Put under "I, Andreas Blonde, guarantee that whatever sum is awarded, I pay it from my pocket". Why do you charge them, gentlemen, to the Greek taxpayer? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, what will happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u194	And let me ask, Minister, why do you say in the explanatory statement...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Georgiadis, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u196	I'll be right back, Mr. President. Well, it's embarrassing what you keep saying about alphabetical order. The selection of governors was made by a committee with the participation of the Vice-President of the AACC. The alphabetical order, which you always say'series and series', what is it? The ones finally chosen by the committee put them in alphabetical order to hand it over to the Minister. Listen, Mr President, what I hear! The committee was set up with the participation of the Vice-President of the AACC and of the two and a half thousand applications selected the governors. And in the paper he gave the Minister, the ones selected from the two and a half thousand, ranked in alphabetical order. So, how would they give it to the minister? In what other way? Like they wanted? Now this 'in alphabetical order' is said by Mr. Kourublis, by Mr. Xanthos, in the explanatory statement. Who? The ones chosen by the committee with the Vice-President of the AACC. Does Mr. Xanthos want to tell us that this committee wasn't good? Does he want us to suggest here that we have a better one? Does he want to suggest that we have more transparent criteria? Does he want to suggest that we have a better assessment? These are all steps forward. We must support them! But you come here and tell us that because the previous committee didn't like how she did her job and because in the future we will build a better one, as we have in mind, let us now appoint whoever we want. Obviously we are voting against this amendment. It is an amendment 'introduction' in fact! It's embarrassing. It will create great compensation claims to the Greek State, which will be the sole responsibility of Mr. Xanthos who suggests it. To conclude, Mr President, I repeat that it is necessary for the Bureau to respond to us if it accepts an amendment which is unrelated to the draft legislation under discussion. Let's bring a bill to the Ministry of Health and let's get it in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u197	I have heard that, Mr Georgiadis, and I will answer you. Don't ask me three times the same thing! And I'll answer you, even though it's not my responsibility. As you are well aware, you refer to the President's opening speech, which we have all heard. Tonight Mr Blonde presented the amendment. Tomorrow, when it comes to voting time, it is an issue that you can raise. And I tell you that if the President does not accept it, there is a plenary which can decide whether or not he wants it. That's the process. You're right. She's just defending her and presenting her tonight. As I explained to Mr Katrugalos, who wants to do the same thing in another late amendment which is irrelevant to the Ministry of Health, this does not necessarily mean acceptance by the Bureau tonight. Tomorrow at the time of the vote, the President or the Plenary Assembly will decide whether or not they are accepted. That thing is clear. Will you allow me, ladies and gentlemen, in excess and by way of derogation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Blonde, sit down now. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u200	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u201	Excuse me, but they are seventy-five colleagues. For typical reasons, I stopped colleagues from talking. Tomorrow you can continue in dentistry. I don't take time from colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u202	Give him my own four minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u203	That's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u204	All right, Mrs. Catrivanu. You know this isn't happening. In any case, you will allow me, in excess, to welcome to the House the former President of this House, today's Vice-President of my party, and I hope tomorrow at 12 noon and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group - I am willing to support him - Mr Vangelis Meimarakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm sorry about the derogation. She was human, for an old friend of thirty years old, with whom we walked together. Mr. Xanthos, you only have the floor for two minutes. Please keep low tons so that Mr Katrugalos can present his amendment and enter the list of speakers. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u205	Mr Georgiadis, and hypocrisy has its limits in this Chamber and in this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u206	I agree, I agree!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u207	There is no limit to hypocrisy in this country. It's unlimited!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u208	That's it! To be called for partyism by its representatives for decades of harder party and client-political system in this country, I think it is causing people's intelligence. And these days, especially on Sunday, it has been proved that those who cause the intelligence of the people of this country are losing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u209	Now I think you're causing intelligence, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u210	Let me reply, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u211	You can answer the substance!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u212	On the substance. Firstly, the evaluation committee provided for in the previous law did not carry out any evaluations. No evaluations!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u213	You do it! Why don't you guys do it? Why don't you do an evaluation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u214	It's completely false! What he did...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u215	But why don't you run an evaluation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u216	As in this country the concept of'reformation','reformation', etc. etc., like you personally, Mr. Georgiadis, you have appeared to be a reformer of primary care, and today society knows that you have broken up what was still left of the old problematic and distorting system, so the concept of evaluation has been abused. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] He did not carry out any evaluations, so the committee provided an alphabetical list to the Minister to choose the people of his choice. In fact, the whole society knows that it also happened with an algorithm: "Four, two, one" was the ratio. So don't make fun of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u217	What "Four, two, one"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u218	"Four, two, one" was the ratio of the appointment of governors to the health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u219	So what? What was the ratio?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u220	Four New Democracy, two PASOKs and one DIMAR. We know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u221	But DMAR was gone! When we put the commanders on, DMAR was gone. I put them on. When it was my term, DMAR was gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u222	You're causing us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u223	But, to understand the size of the lie, there was no DMAR then!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u224	All right, you defended them! That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Georgiadis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u226	It is also challenging to tell us and support, to give political coverage to the requirement of governors who have been chosen on an absolute political basis to run the health system, to show them as an appropriate technocrat and manager, who must remain in their term of office for a year and a half, and that if anyone dares to prosecute them, they should be compensated for by the Greek State in a period of poverty in society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u227	That's what the court will do!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u228	That's a challenge! It is a challenge and it also shows a concept of plundering the state you have had over time. Does this government have the right to choose the political, human potential that the health system will run on the basis of its political plan, yes or no? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u229	That's what you're doing directly!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u230	The answer to every wise person is that he has it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u231	On some criteria, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u232	So we continue and are completely opposed to this criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u234	Just a minute, Madam President, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Georgiadis, what do you want now? Here, you have the floor, just for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u236	Minister, I take the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u237	They want the rest of them to talk. What you are doing is disrespectful to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u238	Listen to me. In your prototype, Minister, you told us that you wanted to set up a system of meritality, not related to the place of origin and the rest, and transparent. And now you're telling me: does the government have the right to choose governors who will serve its political project? But choose which one you want. Do you want a plan of merit, transparent, criteria, or do you want your political plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u239	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u240	If you want your political plan, sir, don't pretend to bring in another transparent, programme, etc. Tell us 'We want to put our party people in SYRIZA'. It's cleaner than all the others you told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Georgiadis, your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u242	Madam President, I would like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u243	You only have the floor for half a minute and you and we are going straight to the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u244	We will obviously bring in an extremely democratic draft law on the administration of the health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u245	Bring it! Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u246	Because we, Mr. Georgiadis, believe in democracy and have no...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u247	We don't believe in democracy, do we?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u248	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u249	So we do not believe in democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u250	We believe in democratic culture and participatory culture in the administration and health system and in general the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u251	Lots of divisions you've been making lately!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u252	I think the Minister became very detailed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u253	However, in this critical period for the survival of the public health system, which we have in front of us commanders who are causing us daily problems, which, even this week before the referendum, many of them were trying to create a picture of the imminent collapse of public hospitals, huge shortages of medicines and health material, so we have a right at this critical time for the health system to trust people who are in line with our political plan and do not have the perception of entrepreneurship for public hospitals, the perception of private financial management, the perception of public and private sector competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u254	All right, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u255	So the criterion is to agree on the political plan. Mr. Katrugalos knows the compensation they'll get.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Georganta, don't yell!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u257	We are part of public care, and we are not with those who have systematically dissolved public care in the last four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u258	The actions are entitled to be against you and not just against the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u259	We're moving on to the MPs. I have also consulted Mr Katrugalos who wanted to intervene, to allow two Members to be placed, and then I will give the floor to the Minister. Mr Katanas Charisios, Member of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for seven minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, why are you yelling? I would like to inform the House that because there are too many speakers that the procedure, in consultation with the Minister, will be concluded around 0.30'. Mr Katana, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I regret that the amendment was not accepted to the draft law that the Members of the Independent Greeks had tabled to the Minister, and it concerns the regulation of the dues to PPC. For the reason of the truth and for Greek citizens to know, I must read it: "The proposed arrangement allows households, farmers, businesses, etc., affected by the policies of austerity of the previous years to meet their debts towards PPC. Any debt to date vis-à-vis PPC by private or legal entities, legal or natural persons, can be adjusted - at the request of the debtor - up to 100 instalments, while the debtor cannot contact another power provider other than PPC, which is directly obliged to reconnect if the power supply connection has been interrupted. In enterprises with a turnover of more than 5,000,000, the upper dose limit may be exceeded by a decision of the board of directors of PPC." That, Minister, you do not accept. I want you to know that the Independent Greeks are against you in this. At a time when we are going to stimulate entrepreneurship, which many people do not have power in their homes, in the middle of the tourist season, do not accept, in the pretext that it is inappropriate, and this bill sign it, anyway, by two Ministers. The point is that Mr Lafazanis signs this bill and you tell us that what we are asking is not right. Your responsibility to the Greek people. You're not in agreement with us. Let's go down. Today we are discussing a very important bill in the middle of the government's great deal of negotiation on the debt issue. The moments are very critical and we all hope that there will be a good development in the discussions that are taking place at the level of Heads of State at the Eurogroup and with the Institutions. Under these circumstances, I honestly do not know how many of our fellow citizens will be informed of this meeting and how many will understand what it means to their lives, but above all to their children's lives, to vote for this bill. Unfortunately, however, the government decided in the midst of a storm of negotiations, when everything hung on a thread to close the agreement with our institutions and our partners, to table in plenary the draft law on the change of the Code of Nationality. If it can be submitted at the moment! The reasoning of the bill that goes down to vote is based on the well-known 'ground fairness', also known as 'colonial law'. It is really oxymomile and, at the same time, tragic - I am coming back to what I said earlier - at the time when we fought to end with a series of laws that we said make us a debt colony - and I mean, of course, the Memorandum - to introduce another draft law with colonial features, which no one has imposed on us, but we are doing it on our own, obviously on our own, on ideological grounds or in order to satisfy a percentage or some of the components of the SYRIZA. It's your business. Unfortunately, SYRIZA does not seem interested in the Greek people's view of the other parties either. This was also seen in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Obviously, you are not interested in consensus, which is what we do with you. For this matter, you seem to be moving forward with the PASOK, the Potami, and the world is watching. I fully disagree with Article 1, namely the assignment of Greek citizenship to minor foreigners under the conditions you have set. As I have already said, I do not agree with the logic of automatic Greekization as described in the bill. It is a mistake that citizenship and citizenship have been identified for years together. For me, these two should be separated. Of course, we all realise that the privileges of citizenship and citizenship are the same. However, there is the important difference that for naturalisation the person concerned must be an adult and, above all, he must apply for it. You're told by someone who had three citizenships in his life, but every single one of them. You are trying to convince us that an adult is part of the Greek society if he can possess a document. No human being is part of any society in the world if he does not want to join itself. That is why it must be a conscious decision whether or not to acquire Greek citizenship and I repeat that every foreigner concerned must be at least an adult. The yield of citizenship could be made to foreign children directly, as to Greeks, since their parents had been naturalized as Greeks as defined by today's law. Assimilation in this way would certainly be much better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u261	So, eighteen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u262	With adulthood. In addition, citizenship - we could agree - to give fast procedures to adults who were born and raised in Greece and met at least some basic conditions. Of course, we should give the people who have legally entered the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid we are sending out the wrong messages to the world with these positions. Our country today accepts a large wave of illegal immigrants, mainly from the East, at a historic time when things within the country are objectively very difficult for both Greeks and foreigners who live with us. We are aware of the problems that exist in the world, but it is impossible to resolve such difficult issues by accepting a disproportionate number of foreigners in relation to the population of the country. I would also like to point out to the Deputy Minister that all illegal immigrants are not refugees, Minister. Unfortunately, this has been said. By relaxing the criteria for naturalization, giving practical citizenship to children we cannot know if they will join the Greek society, we send the wrong messages "Come to Greece and at some point you will get your papers". Ladies and gentlemen, it is a mistake. Normally, the conditions for naturalization would be even stricter under these conditions. We Greeks love this planet - I said it again - so the word 'friendly' and 'hospitable' is Greek from their creation. But when your house's on fire, you first look to save it and then you can accommodate it. It's enough that you can nourish those you're going to host. Unfortunately, this bill is moving in the wrong sense and even at the most inappropriate time. It moves in the wrong logic of the anti-constitutional "law Ragosi". Indeed, those who made him are said to be the same faces. I am sorry, but you do not offer any service to our country in this way, and you certainly do not solve the integration problems you imagine. But the worst thing is that you carry problems that exist today in Greek society in future generations. Really, tell me, isn't that what happened with the public debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Katana. Ilias Kasidiaris, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u264	Today we are facing the greatest challenge within Parliament, a political fraud on a major national issue, because the vote on this 'christmas Plan' on Golden Dawn is equivalent to a thousand Memorandums. Your political fraud is from now on: that this major nationally important "plan" attempts to pass it, "night", "in fines", in ignorance of the Greek people. You are taking advantage of this process in which you have led us through your five-month hardship - rather it is not inappropriate, you have taken trips to Brussels to pay for it by the Greek citizen, you have done your fun and you have today led a whole people to be humiliated by banks' money making machines - and we are therefore talking about a political fraud, because you have concealed that you will immediately bring law to legalise illegal immigrants and give them the Greek citizenship that does not belong to them. This is a major, important reason for a referendum. If you were honest, you were supposed to be interested in the people's will, you would have a referendum on this 'plus plan'. However, you do not do it because you know that the Greek people's answer will be a strong fist in these bride plans and would come out of "no" in this case, a clean "no" percent. I see the Minister has left. He'd go to welcome a Pakistani, no illegal immigrant, because when they call truths from this step...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Cassidy, let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u266	... they don't like this government, which has a work unwilling to do. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u267	Mr Cassidiari, just last week in the discussion procedure, the President of the Greek Parliament called on you and you accepted - if I remember well - not to use...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u268	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u269	...the word "death immigrants". Today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u270	Madam President, you have not followed the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u271	Very well. I would therefore ask you not to use the word 'lathonmospheric plan'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u272	I want to answer your complaint and give me this time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u273	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u274	Wait a minute, Mr. Arvanitis, please. I want to give an answer, but not to waste time from my speech. So I replied to the President that I will certainly use this term, because I respect the Greek language. I have explained that the term 'death immigrant' does not have racist content. As a "smuggler" the one who trades goods illegally, as we call "smuggler" the one who seeks illegally, so we call "smuggling" the one who enters the country illegally, so we call "smuggling bill" a bill that, according to the Council of State, is unconstitutional and illegal. So I insist on these designations and I continue to do so. Such hours it is really disgraceful that appointed ministers come in here and say that the House is "burning" to feed the "death immigrants", that is, while Greek citizens do not have to eat, that Parliament should run the procedures to feed free "death immigrants"! And it's not just nutrition, because we talked about racism. The only racism that exists in this country is racism against the Greeks, because if a Greek goes to the hospital and needs to be forced by the authorities to pay. If a 'broken immigrant' goes to the hospital and needs it, it won't pay half a euro, it's all paid by the European Union. So the poor Greek is in a more unfavourable position than the "death immigrant". So this is the only racism that exists in this country, it is racism against the Greeks. Under no circumstances are you humanists. I am sure that the reason why, with such anguish, you are bringing this 'chronomical plan' to a vote is because you want to create armies of new voters. You are not humanists, you are not interested in young children, because young children are drowned in the southeast Aegean, in this illegal way they spend in Greece. But you're not interested in that. You are interested in creating new armies of voters, because with SYRIZA's policy we will see them in the days when new memoranda and new national dividends are evolving. There will be no Greek to vote for you in a while. So you need new foreign armies to vote on you. I will not analyse the articles of this bill. It's a billing abortion as a whole. It's illegal - I repeat - not according to my opinion. It is a carbon of the 'ragon plan', which the Council of State itself has been unconstitutional. I am therefore saying nothing about the articles and the whole of this'solvency plan'. A national government when it takes over the administration of this country will abolish it by a law and an article. Not as you said you would remove the memorials and smash the memorial. This is how we will tear the specific "plank" and throw it into the ballot of the unusable political history of Greece. Until then, until the Golden Dawn is the government in this country, we will fight by every means any illegal law. We will certainly use the right time to the Council of State to cancel this anti-national legislation again. At the same time, dynamic mobilisations, legitimate political events, in response to the Greeks against the settlement of the country by foreign invaders, will be organized throughout the territory. And I want to repeat that in these events I will not be able to participate, Mr. Arvanitis will not be able to participate, Mr. Gregos will not be able to participate, Mr. Michaloliakos will not be able to participate, Mr. Lagos etc. The leader of the country's third political party is currently under house arrest. There is no democracy in Greece, when MPs have a ban on going and speaking publicly at events of their party. Three MPs are in jail right now. So this is the so-called democracy of the Memorandum, which a resounding 'no' a few days ago by the Greek people was heard. The Greek people provoked a "no" and today, after this famous council of the Memorandum Heads, the "no" became "yes", the "no" in practice became "yes" and what we are learning at the moment, the messages that are coming from Brussels are that a new remembrance lies before the gates of the country, in direct contrast to the popular mandate that was given very recently, as was given on January 25th of this year. SYRIZA and Tsipras and his colleagues in this government, the ANELs, have as a contractor the destruction of this country through the new memorandum, which they impose, where they will turn us into a debt colony and through illegal immigration, will turn us into a colony of foreigners. In a very short time from today, in a decade, according to this plan, according to the policy pursued in recent years, the Greeks will be a minority within our country. And here, of course, comes the role of the Golden Dawn, which is a role crucial to the course and the future of this nation. The Golden Dawn, therefore, commits to safeguarding the continuity of the genus of the Greeks, the genus which the Theodoros Kolokotronis certainly mentions, is not a racist term - like all the fighters of 1821. For the genus and for the blood of the Greeks themselves, all those who were struggling in the course of their historic time with their blood wrote in gold letters in history the word "Greece", from the generation of Leonidos, Miltiados, Pausanias, Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Nikiforos Fokas, Vasilios Vulgarokonos, Konstantinos Palaiologos, Kolokotoni, Karaiskon and Athanasios Diakos, until today, until Major Belissarios, Colonel Davas and Captain Stavriacos. The genus of the Greeks will be preserved in eternity. "Greece is meant to live and will live." And that is the purpose of the People's League political struggle - Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u275	Mr Katrugale, as I promised - and I thank you very much for your understanding - you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u276	I shall be brief, Madam President, from respect for the time of Members who have not yet spoken. This amendment aims to address the fact that some disciplinary boards have not yet been set up primarily to change the structure of the ministries. What's the problem? With the n. 4325, the recent law relating, among other things, to the amendment of the Disciplinary Law, was predicted, as you know, the replacement of the fair holiday by the potential. However, in order not to return officials who are disciplinaryly accused, for whom there is a matter of immediate integration into their service, the law provided that the sole representative, the Minister or the manager of the legal person governed by public law, may, with his signature, set them up and within 30 days, the Disciplinary Board may be seized to convert the suspension of duties into a potential holiday. Where we have no disciplinary boards, it is clear that this competence cannot be exercised. With our circular we faced this, assuming that in general the principle of administrative law that the non-incorporation, the absence of disciplinary boards is a reason for higher violence which allows this 30-day period to be extended. For reasons of legal certainty, however, we come with this amendment to provide that this official is not returning himself, in the absence of a complex disciplinary board, until he is established and we also put a final date for the protection of the staff member, so that it is not without a crisis to extend his holiday until 15 September. Therefore, that is the point of the provision, to ensure that there is a judgement of the Disciplinary Board on the necessity or not of the official's position on a potential holiday after the abolition of self-righteousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr George Stylos, Member of the New Democracy, followed by Mr. Bukoros Christos, also Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today called upon to place ourselves in the legislation on citizenship, with our country literally on the edge of the cliff. You will allow me to speak first of all about what today is about the country, which is nothing but the avoidance of bankruptcy, our euro and the European family. I want to read to you the decision of the board of political leaders that just happened yesterday. It says, therefore, that the decision on 6 July 2015: ‘The recent verdict of the Greek people does not constitute a breach command but a mandate to continue and strengthen efforts to achieve a socially just and economically viable agreement’. So this refers to the joint announcement by the Heads of State or Government. And they continue: "To this end, the government assumes responsibility for the continuation of the negotiations and each political leader will, respectively, contribute to its institutional and political role." Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the commitment made last week that we will have an agreement within forty-eight hours. I also want to say that I take the non-rescue as a commitment to the country's euro stay. The announcement of political leaders with other commitments that specialise. I would like to make a point, however, today, on a page quite popular in the areas of the Left and SYRIZA - and perhaps in other places - on the website called 'iskra.gr' - and I present it for the Minutes - there is an article clearly mentioned in national currency. The article speaks of liquidity and clearing out of the euro. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Stylus, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think it is of great value for Greek society and Greek citizens to make a commitment from SYRIZA - since this website is made up of members and the authors are members of the SYRIZA - which will clarify and clarify to us if they respect the decisions of the Board of Political Heads, the decisions of the Prime Minister, the commitment of the Prime Minister to the referendum, that they ensure the country's stay in the euro. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the referendum is respected by all of us, as is the joint announcement of the political leaders I have referred to. There must be no doubt about that. But here, we have some specific data. The country is on the edge of the cliff. Along with the deficit crisis, competitiveness, the debt problem, after the five-month 'creative ambiguity' we have also created another major crisis: the crisis of our banking system. At the moment, then, we have a country with the economy of dissolved and literally frozen, the banks closed, the pensioners in the tails, the tourism sector taking the catalyst, the real production melting day by day. In this context, the government goes to the negotiations based on the previous Yunker proposals, the basis of which the Greek people voted against. And here we have this paradox: we should go on the basis of these proposals, partners or lenders to say that the old proposals do not apply, that the previous programme is over and that the negotiations should start from the beginning. The macroeconomic data have dramatically deteriorated. Time is not there, as in two days, in my own personal assessment, we cannot in no way have an agreement. In short, we are going to ask for more money than before, as you add to the needs of the country and the need to recapitalise our banking system, with people believing that a better deal will come than the previous one, after voting. The paradox is obvious: We go to the rocks and celebrate! Ladies and gentlemen, we have only been informed a few hours ago that the Greek side went to the Eurogroup without proposals, cutting Juncker's previous proposals, with the partners considering the scenarios of even a Grexit. That's worth it. We ask the government for information. Right now, we don't know what dawns. We cannot have an agreement because we do not have time. Are we going to a deal - a bridge? In what terms? Do you guarantee, gentlemen, the continuation of projects financed by the ESRB? Do you guarantee the completion and payment of the Ionian Road projects that have stopped? Thousands of seven hundred workers work on the Ionian Road along the axis of western Greece from Antirion to Yannina. The banks when will they open? Do you guarantee the testimony of Greek citizens? Do you guarantee July's wages and pensions? What about the instalments of the European Central Bank due in two weeks' time? How much can the Greek economy stand under the present conditions? How will you deal with the humanitarian crisis? How will you reduce unemployment? Are you really considering Grexit scripts? These are words of anxiety and - believe me - they express most fellow Members from all parties. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, supports the national effort within the framework of the joint decision of the Board of Heads. For us, the red line is the country's euro stay. Gentlemen of the government, dignity does not exist in impoverishment and poverty. That's where you lead us. You should know that the New Democracy won't allow us to take us to the rocks. I want to make two references to the bill we're discussing. The Minister spoke and did not mention any evidence to substantiate the objections of our rapporteur for Civilian Responsibility regarding the question of the registration of a student in the sixth grade to obtain citizenship. I'm talking very specifically. I want him to give us evidence, how many of them can be registered, how many go abroad, how many use registering as an alibi and then they can come back. I expected there to be a better organization, more statistics, more evidence to avoid ghetto situations where students would write, take citizenship and leave. It is very right to separate Article 1 and it is very right to give citizenship to those who are legally resident in the country, who have come to the country legally, work legally and monitor and complete their circular studies. Finally, I have heard the Minister accept an amendment that has been tabled - I see here the amendment - by MPs, first-secretary of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which concerns student relocations in the next academic year. There is absolutely no care for the multitude. There is also no care for third parties. I hardly doubt the criteria you set here if a family with three houses will be able to receive a transfer. And I'm talking about which families? For a third-country family with an income of EUR 25 000, it will not be able to take the amendment as you have brought it in and as you have tabled it. So there's a contradiction. We are bringing legislation on citizenship, we are making all Greeks free of criteria, without actually setting objective parameters, and on the other hand we are giving them the possibility as they are here - I cannot analyse the amendment. If you give me the chance I'll talk tomorrow more - to get a transfer. And I would like to make a provision: they will all receive relocations which are not Greek or which will come from other countries and have been in Greece for years and will not be able to get Greek citizens. I would ask you to accept the amendment on the relocations to withdraw it, to come the ministers to justify it and to defend it more fully and to take care of at least three houses. There can be no family living in Arta, studying one child in Athens and the other in Mytilini or Thessaloniki and no care. And I'm making you a suggestion. Leave the relocations to regional universities free of charge. I told the previous government. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Style. Mr Christos Bukouros, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor and Mr Fotis Grakikos is prepared. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we all understand that because of the densities of developments in recent days and because of the critical moments in the negotiations, the bill under discussion is undoubtedly in second degree. Only two - three comments on Article 1. Madam Minister, both the rapporteur for our prolongation and speakers from many parties have asked you for some modifications, some changes, some improvements. What I would like to ask you is why what is envisaged for the children of the Greeks, the nine-year compulsory education, is not provided for the young immigrants who are seeking Greek citizenship. If you cannot take into account anything else that has been heard in this Chamber and in the relevant committees, I would ask you to see the protection shield that this requirement creates in the children of migrants. When the kids are away from school, and registration alone doesn't guarantee that, someone will worry about these kids. It will be their teacher, it will be the school's parents' and guardians' association and you will also provide them with some equipment to cope with their lives in Greece or abroad. However, because, Minister, this bill is directly or indirectly linked to the immigration problem, which has been very strong in our country over the past few months, you told us before and I would like to stay on it, that Immigrant reception centres no longer have the funds and we are in front of explosive situations. I do not know if you have been informed, but today in Samos the doors of the host centre were opened, so that these people would be led to the island and the city of Samos to seek food, because suppliers have not taken a single euro for many months. Really, from the budget over the past few months, couldn't some of the costs be repaid so we won't get to these situations? I would also like, Minister, to refer you to the statements made last week and while in Greece we celebrated the referendum that will take place, in neighbouring Italy, both by Prime Minister Mateo Renci and the Minister of Interior, Angelino Alfano, who, speaking to Italian and foreign journalists, demanded that the European Union accept the redistribution of incoming immigrants into Italy, otherwise, as the Italian Prime Minister and the Italian Minister have said with one mouth, Europe will know another Italy. What do we really do about this matter? How do we deal with it? What's the plan? But, Minister, as I said at the beginning of my speech, this all goes to second degree. The gaze of all Greeks tonight is at Brussels and at the summit, where the negotiations started to see what the future of Greece will be, what the next day will be. But it's good for everyone to refresh our memory and remember how we got here, one step before the disaster. SYRIZA won the January elections, reassuring the Greeks that there is no chance that our partners and lenders will not accept his own proposal, which would be a proposal without memoranda, without measures, sustainable and development. This is what we all know that there has been no more proof of this than the failure of the agreement of 20 February. Next and then, throughout the five-month period, the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers assured almost every day the Greek people that the agreement is before the gates, that it is cleansed and will certainly not happen, to come to a referendum a week ago, all of a sudden, a referendum that modern Europe has not met, a referendum held in one week with an act of legislation that changed all the dates provided for by the relevant legislation, with a referendum that was held with an unprecedented vote on civilised and democratic Europe, which you have constantly invoked, a referendum that the Prime Minister and the entire government of SYRIZA - INALY asked to vote in favour of with a strong 'no' as a negotiating weapon for a better and more sustainable agreement. And the "no" came from the Greek people. And this resounding "no" within a 24-hour meeting of the political leaders on Monday of the referendum turned into a grand "yes", to get to tonight's night not to know if the Greek people are "no", if "yes", or anyway what they are. Let me remind you here, of course, that the Prime Minister has agreed with the rest of the leaders that Sunday's 'no' is not a breach command. And I would also remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that just two days before the referendum, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, in his dilemma, addressed to the Greek people, once again assured him that the strong people's mandate in 'no' will help him to reach a better and sustainable agreement within forty-eight hours. A proclamation that played a role in shaping the result in the Sunday referendum. I just want to remind you that, in one hour's time, the information coming from Brussels is only encouraging. What we have learned so far is that a bridge agreement is being discussed so that Greece does not develop or face up to the urgent problems of the real economy but simply to pay the dose of the International Monetary Fund and the EUR 3.5 billion dose to the European Central Bank on 20 July. This is where we are now, and that has not been ensured either. Of course, as our President said at the meeting of the political leaders, it is the government's responsibility to reach an agreement, as has often been committed to various opportunities for the Greek people. Our party will support the country's European course, but today, unfortunately, no matter how much the Prime Minister has postponed reality, it is time for her to be re-examined. And the reality is in Brussels and in the negotiations. Two are the paths of the government and of Mr Tsipras: Or sign a large memorandum - because in the meantime, the state of the economy, all its indicators and the real economy have deteriorated rapidly - a large memorandum similar to the 'no' of Sunday or the way of breakage and the return to the drachma. And this is the result of SYRIZA's policy since it took over the country's governance. We wish for a sustainable and positive agreement to be reached, but this is not the case at this time, ladies and gentlemen, it is not apparent. It's time for the government to be rescheduled with reality. The communal terrestrials, the vigilance of vote and false assurances are over! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mr Fotios Grassikos has the floor for seven minutes and the PASOK Parliamentary Representative will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Madam President. It is a shame for Parliament to have a bill on citizenship which, in fact, calls on us to negotiate the nationality of the Greeks. In other words, to negotiate what is Greek, what is Greece and above all to negotiate the future of the nation of the Greeks. This is something that we have no right to do and even the thought of it is treason for us. So you want to turn thousands of immigrants into Greeks, as if Greekity were something that was defined by the laws and papers, of course forgetting Herodotus's words, that "national is the sum of the omam, the homosexual, the homoglogue and the homogeneous". And because you spoke with inaccuracies about the Greek education system and that "Greek is whoever has Greek education", I will mention a few more words from the same Word of Isocrates, "Panygiri" which is related: "We are building in this country without having expelled others from here, nor have we understood it by finding the wilderness, nor are we mixed with many nations of people, but we are well and genuinely, because we possess the country in which we were born and live throughout our history, since we are natives." There is, of course, still something else on the question of Greek education: What Greek education? The one who forgets the genocide of the Pontians? The one who talks about a crowd in Izmir? But even the Greeks have no contact with Greek education, as much as the children of immigrants. But let us now consider why all this is happening. Because it is not just the voting speeches that make you do so, or your need to remain in power at any cost - because you know that now that you sign a memorandum again, the Greek people will spit on you! In fact it is something much deeper: it is your own complex existence and your hatred for yourself and your origin, which makes you hate Greece and anything Greek. That's why you hate Golden Dawn. Because you spoke of "humanism" and "democracy", you are actually fake humanists and fake democrats and you are not telling the truth. You're not talking about what Greece you want. Because we have heard Mrs Catrivanou talk about needs, as if the needs of each individual were to determine his or her origin or nationality. We heard him talking about gay couples, gay marriages and European culture. Here, let me become a little raw, because we obviously have forgotten Greek culture and the European is more important. But what is European culture? We see them in Europe, in the Netherlands, in Sweden: paedophilia, brucellosis, drugs. We saw recently in some country saying that there is no father and mother anymore. There is a 'Family I' and 'Family II'. What does that practically mean? Let's just say it so people can figure it out. Why, that's what you want to do, gentlemen of SYRIZA, but you don't dare say it. It means that a gentleman who is likely to be from Peru, for example, after five years left in Greece, has taken Greek citizenship, can marry another gentleman, who has also been in Greece five years, who may come from Mozambique, to adopt a child from Afghanistan, and that will be the Greek ship of the future! This is Greece, which you imagine and dream about. In fact, Mrs Katrivanu remembered Colkotronis too. I would remind her of some other words of Kolokotronis, who said: "Our genus and sometimes crucified, but behold, we live!" This means that you may bring this bill, but Hellenism has spent four hundred years of Turkish domination and many other difficulties and survived. As much as you're trying to break him down, you won't make it. For, Hellenism is the light of the world, it is the light that dissolves your darkness, this neo-communist darkness that wants to dissolve what was in Greece, our whole history, our race, our culture, what matters and wrote history in this place. Of course, Hellenism will turn your bill into a health paper, wrap you with it and throw you in the can of unusable history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u283	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman of PASOK Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor. Mr Stefanos Gikas will be followed. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u284	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have very difficult times, historical times. I really hope that we will avoid national catastrophe, that our people will not live in a new tragedy. It's the seventh working day with the banks closed down. This is the seventh working day when the market seems to be on holiday. It is a grim situation, especially for vulnerable social groups. We have wasted valuable time and now society has been subjected to a hard test. We have seen 'no' dominating the referendum and we have to understand the popular verdict. The Greeks have suffered a lot in the past five years. They have paid dearly the price of exiting the crisis, but without her coming. There are no other tolerances. However, we cannot close our eyes to the contradiction contained in this 'no'. Because it is a 'no' in measures accepted by the Greek Government at around 90%. Today, this time, the eyes are at the summit in Brussels. We are anxious to see Europe standing up to solidarity and cooperation. To save the rupture, bankruptcy, isolation. The Greeks believed that with a "no" the government would reach a better deal with viable solutions and debt restructuring. They believed in the Prime Minister's guarantees and now the Prime Minister holds the fate of the country in his hands. So let us all wish him, leaving aside any reservations and our disagreements, to succeed. That's what we want, that's what we want! Let us hope that our country will come out of this adventure and that future generations will live in a better Greece, in a better Europe. I cannot, however, underline the fact that the PASOK since the 2012 elections was talking about consensus between the political forces and a national negotiating team. Then SYRIZA built his antimony front. He was talking about the fiancés of the memorial. He ignored the needs of national cooperation. But yesterday everything changed. He even invited the political leaders to find a solution and support for his effort to agree from all parties. So here's how useful it was for PASOK to be heard when he was talking about a national negotiating team. We got verified yesterday. After the meeting, the joint decision of the political leaders was 'yes in the agreement as soon as possible, not a break'. There is, of course, a oxymomile here: will the agreement, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of SYRIZA and ANEL, not have any measures? Because the world may still not understand that it is again called upon to take measures to get the country out of the deadlock and the hard stuff. You have simply put the referendum on the Greek people, because you wanted the popular validation of your presence in the negotiations and the maintenance of your party cohesion. Your task has become your people to strengthen your institutional position. This also served the vague question in the referendum, the question of no content, which she set out the country in Europe, and gave European officials the right to talk about 'yes' or 'yes' in the euro'. Now what did you do? The 'no' you did it 'yes'. That's the truth. You are burning up for a package of interim financing not only banks but also the economy, so that we do not go bankrupt. I can only remind you that before the January elections Greece was preparing to go through the preventive credit line as a final step out of the memorandum. I only remind you that we had achieved at the end of 2014 a small primary surplus, which under the 2012 agreement allowed us to claim debt haircuts. It's all ashes. In 2010, Mr. Tsipras said that when the left government arrives he will cancel the memorandum. And in June 2015, the Prime Minister of the 'first time Left' himself signed a proposal for measures of 8 billion to the partners - creditors - and to use his own expression - a proposal toward European terrorists. The former Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, said in April 2011, that if a referendum is held, the economy will collapse, the country will sink into absolute darkness. Prime Minister Tsipras assured in February 2015 that there is no way Merkel will say "no" that she will agree and will be day after day, that we will not hold a referendum, that we will apply the Thessaloniki programme faithfully. Where are they, Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Thessaloniki programme? Mr Sakellaridis came out and said on June 18, "There is no case for capital control. The deposits are secured and the banking system is strong.’ Mr. Sakellaridis, Mr. Papa, Mr. SYRIZA Members, what has happened since the last Monday?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u285	Earthquake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u286	Didn't capital control come in? Or you have joined the opinion of Mr Leucakou'money is paper and will be found, dignity will not be purchased'. Really, retired and disrespected people will buy their medications? Is the drugs with dignity going to pay for the warehouses that require prepaids? Will importers with dignity pay for the goods in front and in full? The Prime Minister said in one of his speeches before the referendum that he personally guarantees citizens' testimony. I hope that we do not see and cut the deposits, we do not have to witness yet another denial, because we did not see a deal, as the Prime Minister had promised, because it was Tuesday and the banks did not open up, as Mr Varoufakis had promised. I really hope you will honour the vote of the Greek citizens who have given you the 'no', as the former Minister of Finance said about a better agreement, because you have the obligation, gentlemen of the government, to bring in a better deal with less measures, open the banks, prevent their collapse, restore the smooth operation of the economy, pay wages and pensions, keep the country within the Eurozone and the European Union, achieve - in any case - a reduction in debt, increase and make use of available development resources. We're waiting to see all this. We'll be here to remind you of them. We will support this difficult time at home, as we have done so far, because for us patriotism the country means first, after the party. And we did it by taking responsibility so that the country won't go bankrupt. That's why PASOK arrived at its present rates. That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot but consistently continue our parliamentary work. The bill that the House is discussing today contains very important regulations for children of migrants living permanently in Greece. It is a bill that had been drafted and planned the PASOK agenda as long as it was government. I would like to mention and record in the Minutes that we are the first to highlight the need for the children of migrants who were born in Greece, to follow the domestic education system, to speak the Greek language and have been nurtured with Greek culture. I remind you of the n. 3838/2010 recommended by PASOK. The same kids were involved. Then we had all the extreme right forces toward us. There was SYRIZA of the sterile opposition. This is a big difference between us and SYRIZA. We in PASOK will not move with party bumpers, but on the basis of our principles and values, which is why we voted for the bill at first. We really expect to see what attitude your government partner, Mr. Kammenos, and the Annells, who have worked so badly because they obviously do not want to pass this bill. Greece is a country of entry of refugees and immigrants. We all know the links that connect us to the people who are forced to flee their homes. Greece is a people who have experienced immigration. It is our duty, then, to bend over the human side of the problem, to see how we can relieve ordinary people who live in unusual conditions and seek a normal life, to see how we can relieve our society of a xenophobic logic that prevents them from being integrated. In our country, about six hundred thousand immigrants live, holding a residence permit. The majority of these have been in the country for over ten years. The articles of the bill therefore need to be pointed out. Article 1 regulates the conditions for the acquisition of Greek citizenship. There is a question about how citizens of third countries are shielded because of the economic crisis they have lost their jobs and access to social security together because of the necessary information, so that they are forced to lodge an application for a residence permit for exceptional reasons and it is something that does not ensure legal residence until such time as this application is decided. So what about these people? The cumulation of the conditions of legal and permanent residence raises a question for children whose parents are out of legality. Also, with regard to successful schooling, reservations have been expressed, as it is commonly known that immigrant children face many problems of integration into a different educational system. According to the bill, the monitoring of a certain number of classes is a special bond between the minor and the Greek education, which is needed for its allegedly essential integration. In my opinion, however, there is also a need to count in kindergarten as compulsory educational grades. With regard to paragraph 6(a) and 6(b), which relates to the deadline for applying for citizenship to twenty-eight and twenty-three years, I wonder whether this right is considerably limited. As far as paragraph 11 is concerned, I believe that the absence of any prediction of the financial capacity of applicants for the acquisition of Greek citizenship poses a major problem, since today there are many of our fellow humans who are below the poverty line. I would also like to refer to some of the arrangements for immigration policy. As far as Article 8(6) is concerned, there is provision for a transfer of competence from the Ministry of the Interior to decentralised administrations, which may create problems as a result of their shortcomings and weaknesses in both infrastructure and staff. As far as paragraphs 18 and 19 are concerned, the issue of a residence permit may bring about a significant load of service, since the corresponding provisions of the Staff Regulations of Officials and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities are applicable. 3386/2005 had led to a great circumvention of the provisions concerning the validity of the supporting documents produced. We need to take this into account. In conclusion, I would like to stress that it is a progressive bill, a bill that actually bears the PASOK seal. Let us hope that it will make a significant contribution to the institutional strengthening of our country's immigration policy. I wish everyone good power in these difficult times. In the difficult circumstances Greeks have always been united. The difference of opinion does not mean war, it means that we still have a way in front of us to go and to go as Greeks all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u287	Mr Stefanos Gikas has the floor. Mr Athanasios Petrakos will then be prepared and, if he is not here, will be followed by Mr Emmanoulidis Dimitris. Mr. Gika, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Madam President. I too, before entering the essence of the bill, would like to make a few points about the historical moments that our country is going through. The truth is that our country is currently going through an unprecedented crisis. Hundreds of thousands of citizens are suffering every day. Our economy is in danger of being completely blown into the air every day. So is our tourism. Unfortunately, there is no solution that will soon be able to restore calm and smoothness in the country. I think that, after yesterday's events, the will and decision to come to an agreement is right now so that normality will soon be restored. This agreement, however, which, according to the Prime Minister, should come in forty-eight hours, appears not to come in the form that Greek citizens expect. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide. Greek citizens were invited to vote in a referendum and voted 'no' in the memorandum. I do not think anyone in this Chamber has any doubt that, if we want to stay in the euro and in the European Union, the solution, which will come, will be accompanied by a memorandum. But this is a conversation we're going to have when the time comes. We, as our President has said, support this effort of Mr Tsipras' government to bring the agreement, but it must be brought, because time is running out. Just a few days left. I now come to the essence of the bill. It has already been mentioned that this draft law is of special and special importance. It directly addresses the sensitive national issue of our immigration policy, which at this time, as we all know, is in a particularly critical situation. At the same time, it is equally important that the results and consequences of the draft law will be permanent, irreversible, since thousands of foreigners will acquire Greek citizenship. In simple terms, if we hurry, if there are wrong moves and manipulations today, we will not be able to correct them in a few years. I remind you of the Ragosi Act, 3838/2010, which was considered unconstitutional. Nevertheless, it allowed thousands of foreigners to acquire Greek citizenship, on the substance of it illegally. Today this is not reversed. Today the Government comes and submits a draft law, which I consider to be contrary to in the context set by the decision of the Council of State, judging it then. 3838 unconstitutional. This in itself is of particular importance. The decision of the Board of Directors clearly stipulates that a minimum term and limit of the relevant legislation on the award of Greek citizenship must be the existence of a genuine link between the foreign state and the Greek state and the Greek society. In his decision, S.A. made it clear, among other things, that the necessary substantial integration into the Greek society of the minor child is not guaranteed by his registration at a Greek school, especially when the length of the training falls short of the nine years of education, which requires the Constitution for the children of the Greeks. Also, this law did not deserve any substantial relationship between parents and the country, nor does it apply to today’s bill. All this must concern us, especially when we see that S.H.E.'s case law is ignored. We therefore have a duty to lay down safety barriers, specific conditions, which will ensure an effective and smooth integration of the foreign child into the Greek society. In any case, its entry in the first grade is not such a criterion. Ladies and gentlemen, to be clear, in the New Democracy we are not opposed to making it easier for certain foreigners to acquire Greek citizenship. After all, our rapporteurs have also made this clear in the committees. But I am referring to second generation migrant children. If they achieve university education, either complete secondary education or even in nine years, there is no objection. Apart from the points on citizenship, however, I would like to make two comments on the issue of immigration and our immigration policy. We have seen a rapid increase in the influx of illegal immigrants in recent months. You are now coming under Article 8(5) of the bill and you are reducing the years of constant residence for exceptional reasons from ten to seven. What is the reason why this is being introduced? Why are we doing this? That's how we encourage situations. Also, in paragraph 28 of Article 8 of the draft law, you regulate to derogate from the conditions of Law 4251/2014 the granting of residence permits to the other parent, in cases of childbirth in Greece, by a parent residing in the country with a residence permit. This is contrary to Directive 86/2003 of the European Parliament. We have to be clear. We don't think it's a reason. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you think that is how you will offer a solution to the issue of the country's subgenitality. We do not think that this is right, however. As time goes and I would like to be consistent, I would like to tell you, Minister, with all due respect, that the bill is moving in the wrong direction. It's a setback for our country. It is a setback to address the issue of citizenship, which is directly related, both to migration and to the chronic problem of subnatality in Greece so concisely, I would say superficially. My personal position remains that Greek citizenship is a highest price and therefore it cannot just be given. On the contrary, it must be attributed when there is evidence of the will and the ability of the foreigner to fully integrate into Greek society and offer it. This does not, however, result from formal criteria alone. In conclusion, I would like to say that I was impressed by the saying of the respectable colleague, Mrs Catrivanou, who, in short - if I wrote it well - said that "we want Greece as a nation of people who live together, regardless of their origin". I think that is a completely wrong philosophy. I am not going to go into what other colleagues have said, about the homonym, the homogeneity, the homoglogue, the homogeneity, etc. which has been distorted too many times. But I will say that we cannot simply give the status of the Greek citizen nor say from this Step forward that a nation is a place where people live, without having common origin. We call on you to withdraw these provisions and of course we will vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Gika. Mr Emmanoulidis has the floor for seven minutes, and since Mr. Kalofatis is not here, Mr. Famelos will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are some moments in the course of time which mark and signify the historic course of the people. Such was the moment of July 5, just the day before, as a new page was written, followed by pages showing that this people, in their DNA, have engraved dignity and pride. In a system that has suffocatedly wanted to create a bleak social climate, the people have endured and confidently demonstrated that, apart from any difficulties their everyday life has brought about, they can stand up and find a need for dignity and pride. This, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me to be a lesson which must be heard more and finally to be embraced by all those who, during the whole explosive period of last week, actually wanted to humiliate a people, because they were being humiliated and treated, in the face of all this grim European system, with its willing expressions here. The marginal situations I think should enable us to learn from our tragic mistakes. I now come to the bill under discussion, to say that in a previous position I have pointed out that the difference in our space from other political forces is basically cultural. Because we realise that as individuals and as collectives we must be particularly keen on those who live under the state of a deficit. Immigration, ladies and gentlemen, is a deep wound to everyone, because it is an outburst that can only trouble those who experience this disfellowshipping from roots through life. As a people, we have a deep knowledge of this reality. We have been afflicted by arrogant and punishing behaviors, by behaviors that are incompatible with human nature. Throughout the time, we have come here to manage a problem that has to do with our journey in time, but with a completely different role, to manage the fates of the immigrants who are hosted in our country. Easily approach is to say that they cause problems. Problems, ladies and gentlemen, and colleagues, do not create people driven out of their destiny requesting part of life. What I have to say is that we must finally not move them as occasionally powerful to other groups of people. This is the left-wing attitude, and I think that any calm and humanitarian attitude to life must be blamed on it. This bill comes to cure social injustices. It is incomprehensible for a child born in this country, who is learning the language of this country and now taking it as a mother, to a child who is fermented with the cultural and cultural elements of that country, because these are his recruits, that the state stubbornly refuses to give him self-evident, the right to feel equal to his classmates, equal to his peers. They may claim that all those who refuse to grant and return citizenship at the age of six, i.e. when the child goes to primary school, to elementary education, consider the performance of this nationality to be a prize when it reaches 12 years. But we know very well from sociology and from psychology that the traumatic experiences created by this unequal treatment nest within us. Finally, what more human than just and justice? This attempts to heal this bill and shows a deep faith in ourselves. Because giving rights to the weak I think it is the practical certification of individual and collective self-confidence. I think it is now a good time, and indeed, mutatis mutandis, to what we have been suffering from the'strong's who actually testify to their weakness. Because all this time, fear made them exportable and they invested in him. One look at more substantial and careful, this thing shows that the fear they wanted to inspire in society was their own fear of the mistakes they have made so far. These mistakes, then, should we not repeat to social groups who need to feel a human blur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides. Mr Famelos, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor and Mr Balaouras, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u292	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one day like today it is obvious that our eyes and hearts are far away. It is where our colleagues, the Greek Government, are negotiating a fair solution to the interests of our country, so that our country can return to its feet, a solution which corresponds to and follows the Greeks' decision, which was expressed very strongly in the face of all the attacks and blackmailing in the referendum on Sunday which passed us, but a decision that cannot have winners and losers, which cannot have divisions and false confrontations anymore. I would like to say and make it clear that poverty, austerity, tolerance, hunger are not just problems on the left, it is not just problems of the working classes. They're everyone's problems. And that's what has to unite us. I think that there are no longer any excuses for 'cutting' in this Chamber and restoring the arguments that existed before the referendum, since the Greek people were placed, decided and strengthened, at a top democratic time, the government's negotiating tactics and position. I think it is very important that we have chosen it here in the Greek Parliament and lived at the moment of popular expression. And honestly, I can't understand how you stayed out of this expression of popular interests and defending the interests, which aren't in the history of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u293	What did he decide? Get the Yunker pack out the door and put it out the window?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u294	The government has dared not only to ask the Greek people's opinion but has dared to overcome the differences and to ask all together, through a Council of Heads, to agree on a common future for the future of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u295	When the memorandum comes, we'll see what you're gonna say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u296	Unfortunately, however, we are listening today - the first day, of course, after the agreement of the Board of Heads - to voices that they cannot understand the change made by SYRIZA to the Greek political scene. I think that what the people decided on Sunday to leave behind the old political establishment, you must understand that, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the rest of the parties that supported 'yes', very quickly, because we want to take Greece forward together. But if you don't want to, the people will leave you behind, as they left you in the Sunday referendum. Because I cannot understand from the voices I have heard from this Step today if Mr Georgiadis, Mr Stylos, Mr Bukouros, with the position of the New Democracy and Mr Meimarakis, President of the Officerial Representation which represented it in the Board of Chiefs, agrees. Have you agreed or not with the overall single negotiation? Have you authorized or not the Prime Minister to proceed with a fair solution, at the same time as interventions in both the debt and the development package? Do you know whether we're with 'yes' or whether we're with 'no' or even confused? I think we need to resolve this. I think we should and should accept, first of all, that we put aside the argument before the referendum. But now we are together, and if there is any problem from any of the opposition parties, I would ask you to put yourself here, in the Greek Parliament, if you disagree with the negotiation and the single position, and I would ask that your President, rather than the Members, should have a different position and that everyone should pass through the Step, just to make an impression. However, for the PASOK colleagues, I think we should make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this is another thing about the 8 billion - which have a brave social redistribution and an important social sign - and also the Yunker package with which you joined and, if you like, you have supported it, supporting the 'yes' against the interests of the Greek people. But all this has been within two days, because now we are talking about an effort, which will put Greece back on its feet and put an end to a dead-end austerity policy and along with it will restore the function in many pieces of democracy in our country. It will reopen the democratic rule and the bill that we are discussing includes important areas in terms of the functioning of the civil society. There are changes in the definition of citizens, which, unfortunately, we left behind when discussing only memoranda and taxes. Because we also have major deficits on the European acquis in this area. From the second part of the bill it becomes clear that issues such as residence permits, 2011 directive, seasonal work, 2014 directive, family reunification, 2003 directive. The European peoples and the Member States of Europe have resolved these issues for years, not only institutionally, but also in a social and cultural context, in an area where the parties to bi-partyism have not invested, namely, in the real change of culture, the acceptance of the different but also the common function at the place. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that the candy that all the issues of democracy in Europe have been solved are wrong. Because there are major problems, above all, even the recognition of the right of a State to determine its future. Because the Europe of rights and the Enlightenment has granted the right to decisions for the future only to bankers through an insurmountable economy. Unfortunately, we also lived very strongly during the negotiation period, the refusal of the institutions to recognise the possibility of a state having its own options. Because it appears that rights in Europe exist only when the rights of the few are not affected, when the rights of capital and of their own entrepreneurship, not health, but the one that feeds their parties, are not affected. But, ladies and gentlemen, these policies, and at the European level, have brought Euroscepticism back to the right, they have restored the discrimination and separation of citizens. We must return to Greece's democratic modernisation. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to pursue the best, fairer and more rational way, the best legal relationship that will link the people who choose to live in the same place. That's what this bill does. To institutionalise this bond and liberate all the healthy forces of society through new rights and obligations, because a coherent, strong state, a sovereign state has nothing to fear from people who may not be native, but who live, produce, form and choose to have a common home. Because, ladies and gentlemen, our country has become the most reactionary citizenship regulation. Even Germany, which had about a century ago the law of blood, has chosen to change this legislation and to set shorter periods for citizenship, less than the ten years that the current bill sets out and no constitutional court has questioned it in Germany itself. So we cannot deny to any child whose family lives legally in Greece, who produces Greece, who is in Greece, that he does not have the same rights as the children with whom he sits in the same gallery. We cannot allow the Greek culture of 2015 to have children 'things'. Because there are two ways of politicising. One way is to look back at the past and mock small social groups, but they become minority groups. The other way is to look into the future. That's what the bill does, that's what our proposal does, because it chooses the real, if you want, democratic socialism, which can give the Greek school and is based on Greek education, which our ancestors have chosen. If we do not choose this, all I think we will do is do, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to this bill from a conservative reading, it is to keep open the scenes of opposition, keep open sources of crime, leave people outside the social framework to have security problems in society so that you can justify your existence and often replace the state and society in security matters. But we know that equal rights mean for society and security. This is essentially what we want: a society with rights and security, which the citizens themselves contribute to. The reason why we support an open and extroverted society is that such a society has more chance of going well, has more power available and in these difficult times we cannot afford to leave any possibility lost. I would like to close my place with a piece of the Greek Constitution of 1827. In the Constitution of Greece, therefore, of 1827, he said: "Those who came from outside who came to dwell in the territory of Greece are like the native inhabitants before the laws". That's the Trizina Constitution. I think he has something to say to us younger people. Many things our ancestors have to give, but they have to give things to progress rather than delay things, to which you want, especially the far right-wing, to keep Greece. Greece will go forward and go ahead with democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Femello. Mr Geramos Balaouras has the floor, followed by Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Madam President. The day before yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, will soon be in the universities. Rose, we say the previous referendum will be taught to postgraduate students in political science, because it is a overthrow of even courses. Now are the seminars that a people have given to a rotten political and mediating system both of the country and of Europe. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how many people thought that yes would come out. Where were they supporting this thing? Was it possible to vote 'yes' one and a half million unemployed, three and a half million young people, the unemployed young people, the migrants of these young people, the parents of these young people who do not work or go to immigrants, the pensioners we said we would not cut them off? They thought that the old recipe of subjugation would work, as they knew it long ago, which, of course, collapsed with a pit? Terrorism: Train an example of bank closure. I do not have time to say that, in any way and from the establishment declaration of the European Central Bank system, this is not allowed. The basic principle is to defend the operation of the financial system entirely throughout the euro area, but also in each country separately. The second is the current one, the current one, that they closed the cannagus before the program was even finished, when the program had been finished for two months and they were fed to "intensive". So neither terrorism nor blackmail nor false news have passed. Here they took out a troubled Turkish who cried with two carved bread in his hands, which was from the earthquakes of 2008, that he is now a citizen of the country, who has no eating and weeping gums about the tragic situation in which we brought him, as well as they took out of Africa ATM and so on. Finally, they took political skeletons out of the wardrobes - not to mention many names - whether Simitis is called George Papandreou or Karamanlis. They got Chochazopoulou! How the hell did they get Chochazopoulou out of prison to say, "I, too, with you on the forehead"? What did he pursue and why did they do it? Colleagues, this vote has another feature. It's a strong class vote. It is not simply that these methods insulted the democratic sensitivity, which at the same time touched on the dignity of the Greek people. Colleagues, it's a historical cut. Sunday's smiles will be a smile tomorrow. I am sure of that, because I think - and here I think it is a mistake from the Major and from the Elisson Opposition - that we are like a samurai. I'm not going to analyze it. Everyone knows that the rheumatians can't be separated except with a serious operation. Therefore, the death of one body will also be the death of another, unless others can heal it, which I don't think have the potential. Let's talk about the bill. The bill is necessary and we are right to talk about it, because SYRIZA, as he will take part in economic class interventions, wants to make interventions to society. It's an incision. Let us remember only our immigrants, Greek immigrants in Germany or much more in the United States, which was the second largest national migration group. But, Minister, while we have dared, we have not completed our boldness. I would like to refer to an amendment tabled by many SYRIZA Members under the heading 'Level permits for land workers'. As you know, I'm from Elias, from the Manolada Lehannes area. This whole area has strawberry production. I went in the course of the motions many times to defend, to fight, along with my companions and companions for rights and against affliction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] As a parliamentarian, I have also met immigrants and producers. Producers also want a solution, because they want to take off the spear of what they call strawberries and blood off them. So there are shocks, which I do not have the time to mention in greater detail. There are shocks in labour rights. There are shocks in human rights, without their "protectors" dependants. They want and demand - and we have to give them medical care. Finally, even in our interest, in the difficult situation in the country, Minister, we can also talk about the sabbaticals, in order to get them from them, as they must be paid by every citizen in the country who works. We all know how they live. Don't try to hide them under the rug. In fact, this is where I want to do a parentheses. Recently, the state, the court, of these immigrants who were hit by the rifle gang, also asked them for the change to pay the court expenses. I hope that the Minister for Justice and the other Ministers will take the initiative, because it is going very much and I think that the whole society will revolt and, first of all, all the Members of SYRIZA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But I'm going to give you one last example. Mixed tiles of IKA auditors, IKA tax, etc. are going. and make checks. Immigrants, Minister, so they wouldn't be arrested and obviously, because afterward, if they're allowed to be arrested, the employer won't take them, but he'll take others, they jumped like frogs on the canals. They didn't breathe with reed, as happened in Vietnam. It's just that people were in the canals hiding like ashores and frogs. I appeal, even at the last moment, to the Minister, but also to the Minister for Labour, because the Minister said that she does not accept it because the Ministry of Labour does not accept it or discuss it or is looking for it, recalling that some months ago SYRIZA MPs as opposition had tabled a forward-looking amendment to a bill of the New Democracy-PASOK coexistence. Colleagues, we must defend the rights of those who have no voice. So all the other words don't match us. The only words that match these people's voiceless words, so that they can finally speak as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr Balaura. Mr. Nikitas Kaklamanis is not here. Mrs Alexandra Chanaka, Member of the SYRIZA, will speak and Mrs Fotini Vaki will follow. Here, Mrs. Chanaca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Madam President. Although Mrs Merkel, from what I have learned, makes statements, I will be allowed not to say anything about the great 'no' of the people that we have been through on Sunday or the forthcoming agreement. I will pass on the question of a nineteen-year-old Cavaliotis born in Albania. He said to me: “And where should I go? I don't know any other language. I don't know the story of another country. I don't have another home. Why am I a stranger to you?" These words shocked me. In our view, the question arises: 'Who can be Greek citizens?' I claim that the State grants citizenship to those who have a common and equal interest, the national one. I claim that this is an interest that goes beyond the formal element, which concerns something exclusive, the peculiarity of the fate of a people to defend everything against others. Who are they who have this fate? Are they the ones who say they live in the same place, or are they only have the same blood? The so far debate on the amendment of the Code of Greek citizenship highlights the conflict of two perceptions. The first concept is xenophobic, racist. It is a concept governed by our national or racial cleanliness syndrome, the idea that a Greek is born and you are not. It is the concept that wanted the citizens of this country, those who have a different religion or language, enemies or citizens of second-class, with bars and an ID check, to go to their villages. The second idea is internationalism. It is the concept that accepts the identification of people with the living space, the culture and the shared life that they experience and shape. These people are involved in common education and at the same time have a conscience - and the will - to claim the above as elements of their human identity, individuality and collectiveity. It is the concept based on our history, the concept based on the struggles of our people, the concept based on Greek tradition, the Greek spirit, the universality and especially the assimilating power of Greekism. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, becoming Greek citizens, the children born in Greece, the children who have learned letters, who have been trained in our country, are not only moral but also an imperative social and political task. With this certainty, I believe that the regulations introduced really meet social needs. They are arrangements that compete with the request of children for life, confirmation and future, as the Minister, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, pointed out. They are arrangements that shield democracy and social cohesion. They are arrangements that give about two hundred thousand citizens who live and grew up in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that even today there are voices trying to convince us that our national status is in danger of being altered, because some thousands of migrant children want to naturalise Greek citizens. And they're suggesting that we build walls for our protection from the Asians, that is to say, build a prison to get locked in. It is well known that, as SYRIZA, we would like a more advanced bill in relation to citizenship. Our view is that Greek is the one born in Greece rather than what we are tabling today in the bill. However, we have nothing but to accept the decision of the Council of State. And that, because we consider it successful is a bill that lasts time. This bill can produce results and form consciences. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of the reports by some who have been heard here, that SYRIZA is sending a call for a thorn and massive entry of immigrants into our country? When did we say that Greek society can withstand an unlimited number of immigrants? Why are you confusing the problem of current refugee flows with a genuinely social issue? Is that about these huge waves of refugees that SYRIZA is responsible for? For the wars in our wider region and their consequences were caused by SYRIZA? Is SYRIZA responsible for the long-term policy to protect the wealth of the countries of the Middle East and Africa? Is it for Dublin II the SYRIZA? Is it because of the neoliberal Europe and its policies? It has been heard here by the speaker of the PASOK on how good the European Union is on the issue of immigrants. However, the last Council of the European Union closed its eyes in the face of the immigration problem. Why have European leaders refused to take up hospitality, even forty thousand refugees from Greece and Italy? Please remember that this event has even angered the Italian Prime Minister Martino Redzi, who said: 'They are not worthy of being called Europeans'. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the bill under article, thinking of Mario and Crustacean. There are two neighbors of mine in Kavala, fifteen and seventeen years old with parents from Albania. One of the two retained the Greek flag at the parade of 28 October. Since the first month when I became a member of the SYRIZA and whenever they see me, they ask me: “When will we become Greeks?” We owe them that. To make them Greek! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mrs. Chanaca. Mrs Fotini Vakis now has the floor for seven minutes, and then Mr Nikolaos Orphanos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's refusal to sign a humiliating agreement, recourse to the people's verdict, the strong 'no', to the stubborn extortion of extortion, ultimatum and media coups, a 'no' that wrote a history page in which the next generations will be proud to be overthrown and the citizenship bill, along with other bills, are parts of the same vision. They are part of the vision of a society of solidarity, justice and democracy, of a society that separates us all, which does not create exclusions and second-class citizens. It is very encouraging that the bill on the multi-faceted theme of the Code of Greek citizenship is now to be voted on in an article in the Greek Parliament, guaranteeing a broad consensus. But it grieves the fact that citizenship in children of migrants has impacted such intense resistance and ideological strife of a state that wants to call itself "European" and "greedy". The anti-racist reflexes of a society and its enlightenment, cosmopolitanism and hospitality are tested in times of crisis, when the first world migrates to the third and the third to the first, making borders fluid and indiscriminate. Love for the chosen self and hatred for the other, the irresponsible cries of the crowd in parades "You will never become Greek", the oral representative of the Golden Dawn saying "You are born, you are not" in the Committee for the Discussion of the bill, which is entirely consistent with the very vulgar term "lathing immigrants", used for coronary purposes within Parliament, for some are signs of racist hatred. Others are incidental historical amnesia. The identification of citizenship with the law of blood gave birth to the laws of Nuremberg in 1935, which provided certificates of blood purity, deprived citizenship of the German citizens until then and placed people in lives worthy on the one hand and worthless on the other. The identification of citizenship with the ommon and homogenousity created Nazism. And Nazism raised biology and racial hygiene to a destiny of history and healed politics, interpreting it as a community sterilisation from the barbaric, foreigner infectious virus. The matching of citizenship with the cleanness of blood opened concentration camps and sacrificed the concept of human rights in the sense of the chosen race, the tribe involved in a war of destruction of the lower and lower. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not born Greek. You're being Greek. Citizenship is not a privilege, but a right. It is not being awarded by the lines of blood, but isology, isopoliticalism and dignity, as the coordinates of a rule of law. In 1797, in the wake of the French Revolution, King Ferraios at the "New Civil Administration" designates as a citizen the one whom, regardless of religion and language, is designed to be a worthy resident of the country. How many arguments should they be invaded and how many trenches of trenches should citizenship be given to children of migrants, children born in Greece, have life horizons in Greece, go to school with our own children, play with our own children, the language of their parents is a second language and take part in Greek education? And remember Isocrates, twisted by Greek-centres, while what he meant was: More worthy to be called Greeks are those who participate in the day-to-day education than those who have Greek origins. The foreigner who has taken Greek education deserves to be called Greek more than by nature the Greek who ignores it. Remember Chenai, too. In attending the previous debate and studying the minutes of the committee meetings, I was amazed at the attitude of the Communist Party, a party identified as internationalism, as reflected in the well-known word "proletarians have no home", not to give citizenship to the First Elementary, but to adulthood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u303	Is that what we said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u304	Yes, "proletarians don't have a home". And Marx used the rights of the citizen as a felony of exploitation relationships.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u305	You're not going well!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u306	But let's not expect them to be given...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u307	Madam President, they are distorting our position. It is unacceptable that what is being done is done! It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u308	I read this that the Communist Party proposes in the minutes of committee meetings. So let's not expect them to be given...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u309	You have now heard the proposal I have put forward beforehand. I developed it and you heard it. I said it, and at first...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u310	...as a trophy or as a prize at the end of a painful social integration race.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u311	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u312	Please, Mr. Comrade! Let Mrs. Vaki finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u313	If you have decided during the consultation to vote on the article, we are very pleased about that. I read in the minutes of the meeting that citizenship should be given to the fourth grade. Allow me, then!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u314	Did we make such a suggestion?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u315	This is what I read in the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Bright, don't react. I'll give you the floor for a minute to make a correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u317	If you vote, we are very pleased about that. However, it is surprising that the position of the river, which advocates giving citizenship to the F' elementary. The river, which defines itself as cosmopolitan and highly pro-European, sometimes invoking us for ethnicism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is a fervent desire and passion to remain Europe and citizenship at twelve that looks at first sight oxymomile. Of course, Europe, which, as long as you want to stay, is far from Europe that we very much want to remain, as classic liberalism from the new one. Because classical liberalism has spoken about rights, neoliberalism has drowned them. Classical liberalism has supported Parliament's Republic, neoliberalism is dominated by emergency situations. In the Europe of financial creditors who create humanitarian crises in its countries in the 21st century, in Europe which raises Jihad and intolerance, which turns the pre-eternal symbol of world civilisation, Mare Nostrum, into a moat and tomb of migrants, and becomes Saturn that eats the values and rules that she has given birth, they do not leave rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill must be passed, because the nation is not the homonymous and homogeneous, but the framework within which one can enjoy the status of the citizen and therefore the member of the sovereign authority. The nation exists neither before nor regardless of the democratic process that brings it into the world and which is no longer the one that gives rise to citizenship. This bill must be passed because citizenship is not a grace and a donation, but a right. But it's also our debt. We owe her. We owe it to the children of those who used the Greek society as a backup army that set up the great Greece of the great projects, exploited, exploited violence, left them uninsured and uninsured, filled the manolada strawberries, treated some as human beings or slaves. We owe it to remember what Russo said: "To decide that a slave's son is born a slave is like deciding that no man is born." We owe it to remember that man deserves his name only as a citizen. Because a life without civil rights is a life of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. I'd just make you, Mrs. Vacque, an observation about the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u319	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Lambroulis, would you like the floor for half a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u321	Yes, Madam President. Madam President, because, in cooperation with colleagues - it is not secret - I took the Minutes, I would like to say that they were another colleague from the Communist Party in the committee and the bill in plenary, because of a problem with a particular MEP, I have done so. And now, at the outset, in our position and in the articles on our position with regard to citizenship, the position of the Communist Party, it is clear here too, from this step two times in the committee, that we are saying the same thing. So, don't look for them in the JRC and squeeze. We are clearly saying that what happens now with the bill? This is where citizenship goes to give rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u322	Don't do any more analysis. Make a correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u323	We say, every child born in our country has the rights of all children, regardless. And we're talking about registering, and so on. And citizenship to take her with his adulthood if he wishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u324	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u325	So here, with this bill, what's going on is what? To have rights, you have to take citizenship. That's what's going on. That's the main difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u326	All right, Mr. Bright. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u327	So they don't blame us. And much more, we have been placed for these articles as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u328	Good. Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u329	The rights are acquired...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u330	Mrs. Vaki, you have spoken. I think it's clarified. Mr Orphanus has the floor and Mrs Sveroni follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u331	Don't twist them! You connect citizenship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Lambroulis, citizenship is the bill, not the rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u333	You don't guarantee him any other than the kid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u334	With citizenship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Lambroulis and Mrs. Vaki, can you solve these outside the room? Here, Mr. Orphane, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u336	Thank you very much, Madam President. We have heard that we are defining ourselves as cosmopolitans. Okay, I'm learning our self-determination of the party from the government. That's something. We spend critical hours, we wasted useful time. Today's debate seems to be out of place and time, of course, but it is absolutely essential. Because in fact, some of our fellow citizens, even though they do not have citizenship, can no longer wait. We hope, of course, that the Prime Minister will bring about a useful, critical, absolutely necessary and sustainable agreement for the country, despite the valuable time lost in the previous period, the economy that has collapsed, the healthy businesses that have achieved it in the years of the crisis, unfortunately, are preparing to put the banks and everything we know. But today, we're here without games, no lies, with the country in an emergency. We need a plan, a serious one. Greek citizens will not be tolerated any more delays. Every delay now costs life every hour. So we expect what the Prime Minister promised to the Greek people: an agreement that will ensure the country's stay in the Eurozone, because we have no more room. I'm moving on to my speech. Who's Greek? What is the feature that gives this special identity? Is there a Greek who is born in Greece, or is being a Greek, a title of honor, of some kind, as the nationalists and those who like to glorify and cry out unorthodox, war jaws? With the past heavy history we have created the myth of a country under constant foreign, invented enemies. "Pay a non-Greek barbaric" for us, no matter whether the word, if the phrase in the Attic dialect did not mean the inferior, as amorphetically abounded some. We convinced ourselves that every serious issue is a war and we convinced others eventually, so they start fighting us. The Greek state is constantly lacking in welfare. The gaze of each government arrives until the next election. It was not surprising that nothing was planned in order to address the migratory eruption of the last decades. Always retrospective, late, and at the last minute we rush to gather what we can. Last example of this logic, intelligent negotiation, with the country sticking to the wall. But today, with this legislation on citizenship, we are trying to relaunch. For years, previous governments have done what they have not seen. The Greekism, which has spread to antiquity throughout the then known world, has been attempting over the last few years by extreme right-wing cultures, but unfortunately also by politicians and the other side of the political spectrum, to return to the introvertality, the closed borders, unlike the fundamental nature of the extroversion and the dissemination of its values. This bill starts with a good basis. It's not perfect, but it's a new beginning. And here, at some point, we have to tell the government that it is not possible to deal with the paradox, rather, that every government bill redefines the fundamental values of humanity and that anyone who disagrees is not as progressive as they should be, is not as humanist as they should or is not as democratic. That is why we are saying 'yes' and proposed improvements in particular, confirming our commitment to a constructive and substantial opposition. What should, then, be the criterion of citizenship for a child born in Greece? His parents' life? How did parents get to the country and how they went to it? How much did they work and in what context? The new bill prescribes the right of citizenship to register the child in the first grade and the five-year legal residence of the parents, plus the other conditions. But for us it is clear - it is our disagreement - that instead of focusing on the child born in the country, we put at the centre and measure the way parents have been and exist in society. "Sins by parents train children", in other words. What do we say? What do we suggest? We suggest that we put the child in the centre, put the child's socialism and participation in the school community, put our education in centre and trust her, for that very reason. We don't care what parents did five years before the child was born. We're interested in one of them being legal at the time of his birth. We are interested in having the child successfully completed the primary school and then, without other asterisks, gaining Greek citizenship. We're protecting the child. We are interested in the child going to school, finishing his school, without his parents being able to remove it, perhaps inferior to the customs of their home countries. This is a basis for an acceptance state. You claim that with our proposal we do not protect children from possible racist behavior within school. But I ask you: is citizenship a tool to combat racism? So you want to face the distortions of Greek society, the conservative syndromes that afflict us and ensue us in foolish majesticisms? To eliminate these phenomena, it is not just citizenship. It needs work on a deeper and more substantial level. I need - and I will say it again - confidence in Greek education, in Greek school, in Greek teachers and teachers. No child will be protected through nationality from bullying. From the bullying will protect it a school open and innovative, colorful, cheerful and creative. Ladies and gentlemen, second generation immigrant children are not immigrants. We have to understand that. They have no less rights than Greeks born by Greek parents. As far as we invoke national features, we flirt with fascism. We must go on with acceptance, with confidence. Societies change. Citizenship shall be redefined on the basis of obligations and rights. Today, then, we have an opportunity to give a strong blow to the racist partners that poison our society. But we must not forget that we are still at the beginning. The second generation of children are entitled to and need citizenship, because their homeland needs them, in turn. We need their talents, their skills, their fresh look, their love for this country. Some will magnify, some will admirably serve society in the years that some will come and, in turn, will rule it one day. So the Greek state must also raise the sleeves and form a course for the integration of our new fellow citizens. Here is the great challenge: to what extent will the state be able to take advantage of these people so that they too do not have to unravel to advance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, if you're kind, Madam President, and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u337	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u338	Thank you. We must not create a new army of Greek immigrants, ladies and gentlemen. We need to give opportunities, choices to prepare and work for all the young people who will take citizenship. After all, it is our people, our friends, our classmates, our fellow citizens, our neighbours, our partners, an unseen Greece, which in turn wants to make progress. And, of course, all this must be done with the least possible bureaucracy and suffering. That's enough trouble these people have had for so long. Modernisation of services, therefore, as soon as possible. We need a clear, fair immigration policy, a prudence policy and not cheap demonstration of foreign progression, which takes account of the country's hosting potential, together with the values of, of course, humanism. I repeat: we support the bill, it is a good start, and it has to be made even better, giving the weight to it. We must ignore the predatory views of attracting new immigrants. That is why the time perspective, which will ensure that people remain in the country and become an equal member. For years we have been committed to ideologies, irresponsible opinions and civil war partners. I don't know if you know how powerful love is between parents and their adopted child. It is more powerful sometimes than a natural child, because it is a conscious choice that the child returns with all his soul. Today, then, we have the opportunity to have many excellent young fellow citizens and to show that Greeks must, not just be, but deserve it. Of course, I oppose the amendment to the managers of hospitals, not all that has been said before, but also because at some point we need to have a great debate and see why the health system that the Greek citizen pays with his marks and claims to be free, costs so much and provides him with so poor services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr. Orphan. Mrs Sveroni has the floor and we shall proceed, on the basis of what I see in the Chamber, with Mr Ursouzidis and with Mrs Eleni Psara. Mrs. Sveroni, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u340	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is of the utmost importance here. The SYRIZA - ANEL co-government has proceeded with a referendum that I believe is minor in relation to this bill here. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Yeah, that's my point of view. Let's just say we're younger. And I didn't agree with you, but I didn't make any whistles or anything else. With this bill, we're the ones writing history. We are writing history here in this Parliament. With this bill of nationality we write history about the future, not ours, but about the future of our children and children's children, who would like to be called Greek, who would like to say that they will lift the same flag. I am very sorry, because unfortunately you have confused too many things, what democracy is going to say, what progress is being made. In the name of democracy and progressiveity, you have brought everything to an end. And anyone who dares in this Chamber talking about a nation, talking about a country, is considered a racist, is considered backwards. But you know? It's not my fault. In the 40 years of post-population, unfortunately, this is what we heard and did not find a voice of resistance, and as a result any Greek is considered backwards, we must definitely embrace each immigrant illegally and wrongly. Isn't there a dictionary in our Greek dictionary about the word 'lathonian'? We have arrived because we have demolished our language and we do not want to use the word 'death immigrant' and to say 'an immigrant who does not have the legal documents'. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Please. That is the other language, yours, which, to render the point, must find two, three, four, five words, which are not literally those words. He's indeed the smuggler. Why? Why did you characterize it? Whatever you characterize in the alpha or beta way, is that unmistakable? And that's a democracy? Is that what you think of democracy? Is that democracy? As you speak a lot about democracy and democratic procedures, I tell you that you left-wing and democrats respect nothing. Minister of yours, Mr. Xanthos asks me, that I am a Greek MP elected - I told you again - in the same way that you were elected too, do you know what he answered? What is the work of the Congressman? It is the legislative and parliamentary control. In the context of parliamentary scrutiny, therefore, I am sending questions to all the ministers and to Mr Xanthos. Mr. Xanthi's answer? Totally democratic! Admir him! He should be here to tell him. In reply, it says: 'We will inform you that in the event of pending trial for a criminal organisation in which the participation and integration of the majority of the Members of the Golden Dawn are investigated, we will abstain from answering'. I mean, it's gonna be a long way from answering me to Despina Sverney. And you think it's democratic? And now you want us to take you seriously?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u341	What are you applauding? You're not even serious people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u342	Don't you feel ashamed? And you want to tell me that it hurts for the children of immigrants? Does it hurt so much? But you don't hurt your fellow people for the past. You don't hurt for us. You do not show a sensitivity to a Greek MP elected as you do. And now you want to make me believe that you have democratic sensations and humanistic feelings? If ever possible! But you know? You're all flattened. I am very sorry that Parliament is empty. I'm sorry that the country's going through other difficult times, you guys found the opportunity to pass this bill wrong. If you dared, let's make a referendum and then when you would go to say "yes" or "no" say to Greek citizens "we also pass this bill and a couple of Afghans, Albanians and I don't know who, when there are seven years left in Greece, they may be Afghans, but to their child we give the Greek citizenship, because the child has rights". The only ones who have no rights are those who since generations fourteen are Greeks! Oh, you don't. And if you dare say so, then you're racist and fascist! Let me tell you something: you have no idea what "Racism" means or what "fascism", but above all you do not know what "Greekism" means. High care and values are not constructed within a short period of time. When they are created, only some loop lines are distinguished, which must be processed. It takes a year and an effort. Love for homeland is inherent to man, such as love for parents. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, excuse me. You'll tolerate me, too. Please, I mean, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u343	I'm sorry, Mrs. Sverney. What do you mean, 'I will tolerate you'? I'll give you a little tolerance, as I gave everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u344	That's it. I said 'tolerance'. You'll tolerate me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u345	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u346	I'm so sorry. My Greeks are right. Thank you. In our homeland, however, while love is innate, we have said, as it is for parents, that the triple fold has been possessed, which keeps our nation, the Greek nation alive. The homeland, religion and family are endlessly put by whom? Those who serve the new order of things and promote multiculturality and multi-ethnicism and feel very proud to be multicultural and multi-ethnic. Anti-Hellenicism is being promoted both economically and culturally and now legislatively. With what? By distributing Greek citizenship from you who invoke patriotism. You have now addressed the 'no' to the patriotism of the Greeks. Where it suits you, we put the nation and patriotism ahead. Wherever it suits you. Do you know what I'd like you to say? All those who are being cut now and shed crocodile tears, if they knew we were leaving the European Union and that we're being expelled, would any of them want to take Greek citizenship? When we were in the committees, I asked the children, who I was moved to hear them speak Greek. I asked them: "Why do you want to take Greek citizenship?" I told you that there was not one in committee to tell me 'whether or not to vote on the Golden Eagle, I feel Greek'. Do you know why? It doesn't feel Greek no one. He wants citizenship to go to Erasmus, to have some rights, to go to foreign universities. Is that what it feels? So, to be a Greek, is that what I have to feel? If you think that's it, then you're enjoying what's called "Greek" and what's called "national". I can say I've been feeling too bad since this bill came. I feel a sorrow. I feel - to tell you - that I am the paw, I am the nation. I feel that we are living in days of decline, like those days of decline that the last defenders of Byzantium lived. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Yeah, that's how I feel, ma'am. You guys can laugh. You and the only people you're crying are with the immigrants. I have not seen one time pour the tear on it and see with the study of the multitude, the threeteen ones. Kids are evidence. But you did not create incentives in the five months that you were government, so that the Greeks would give birth. The Minister said to us, 'after we have no birth' - but politics, we are not doing - 'if the other children who are studying leave to find work outside, at least have some others'. You don't want a nation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u347	Mrs. Sverney, would you please close the next half minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u348	Now, Madam President. Excuse me. Don't interrupt me, because you're cutting me off. You don't want a Greek nation. You want a Mosaic state with settlers, just as I tell you. I would like your other ally, of course, to be here, the partner, who is not a partner in this bill, Mr. Kammens, who from this step shed tears nationally for the agreement. He could not accept by any means that there would be a cut in expenditure on our national defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u349	Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u350	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u351	Mrs. Sveroni, look.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u352	Let me go, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u353	No, I won't leave you any more. You've been the only MP since I went up to the Chair that you've spoken ten minutes and thirty-two seconds. Please close your sentence very much. He hasn't spoken to anyone as much as you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u354	But we are much less.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u355	There are two other Members of the Golden Dawn who are registered, who are not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Kaklamanis told us we'll go by 12.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u357	It was announced at 22.05 p.m. that we're going by 00.30 p.m. Finish, Mrs. Sverney.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u358	Yes, Madam President. You cut me many times, and I am no more brass, like some who can immediately return to their word. So I thought I'd like Mr. Kammenos to be here. I'm sorry the benches are empty, but he'll hear it and find out. He can't say "we don't vote for this narcotic bill, but he'll be voted for anyway, because there's a majority from my partner and from the Potami." I would also like to say to his parliamentary representative that silence is sometimes inconsistent, and that is what everyone should understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u359	Good. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u360	That is all, Madam President, I will say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u361	No, no. Thank you very much. In these words, you have closed down. Mr Ursouzidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u362	Four times the country went bankrupt and stood on its feet because we were a nation. With this one here, there's no nation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u363	Mrs. Sveroni, please. You've been talking for 12 minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u364	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mrs. Sveroni. Mr George Ursouzidis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor. We will finish the procedure with Mrs Helen Fishrea, also a SYRIZA MEP. Mr. Ursuzidis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the amendment of the Code of Nationality and the incorporation into the Greek legislation of the directives of the European Union. I am well aware that, behind every immigrant and every refugee, there is some bitter truth and some painful reality. No one leaves his place, the place that was born, the place that carries the memories of his ancestors, to make a different choice, if any serious cause is not behind it. I'm a third generation refugee from the grandparents. Even today, my parents are referring to the places where the grandparents left. The early childhood I spent in Germany as a son of migrants. I can say that, despite the reality my country is experiencing today because of an uncompromising attitude to the specific situation in Germany, my memories of children remain and I have a good view of the German people. As far as the issue of citizenship is concerned, it is about the relationship of the citizen - to understand the simple world - with the state in which they live. This relationship, therefore, is defined in a specific way, creates obligations and rights for citizens who choose to live in any country in the world. So I must say that those people, whom I happened to see in the Committee on Production and Trade when this bill was being requested, felt that they were reborn. Such was their pleasure, which at last the Greek state recognized this right, which they were entitled to, since they studied in Greece and lived here for many years, but some other logic forbid them from having the rights that every citizen has. As far as the issue of homeland and the issue of what one feels within it is concerned, that does not change. No paper can replace it. This is what one carries in, because it is something that comes from the history of this place. I could have second citizenship or second citizenship. I never felt like I needed her. I didn't choose her, I don't have her. It's enough for me to have what I have. Some people, however, may feel obliged not to return to their homes because the conditions are so. And, indeed, I was shocked when I heard the representative of the New Democracy mention the Turks and say about refugees who accumulate on the coast, who obviously come from Syria and are not to blame because these people have broken up the states that lived and their cities and villages and have had to abandon them, that Turkey is not sending them back. I felt what a Pontian song says: "In foreigners I am Greek and in Greece I am foreigners." In other words, those people who sell everything in order to reach a country where they think they will live better, get the absolute inhumanity and obligate them to return to the places where they cannot live. From there on, it has to do with various other issues, which are exploited politically by various political actors. The world is well informed about the behavior of those who distinguish people according to their beliefs, depending on their religion, depending on their color. He's already categorised them, and I won't have to expand on this matter. Now I have to go through the amendment that my friend Andreas Xanthos tabled with this bill today. Fate makes great games. In 2001, I resigned from the administration of the Hospital of Veroia, when at the time Mr Papadopoulos, Minister of Health at the Government of Simiti, had proposed the first bill for the hospital governors. When I found that any graduate of higher education suddenly acquired special knowledge and could serve from the commander's position, I had nothing but to give up, since we were all looking forward to the fact that the children whose families sacrificed time and money to study, who were doing postgraduate studies, would be able to do so. In another way, then, PASOK - I would remind you that it has gone too far - was trying to create backstrengths with society in order to be desperately held in power. The fatality is here. She lost the election, New Democracy came, interrupted their contracts and others came. The previous ones claimed the Arena Ice and took the money, because they were entitled to it. They had signed five-year contracts. The New Democracy behaved in an even worse way, put its own people in. Today I am invited to vote and to vindicate the New Democracy and the PASOK for the destruction they have brought in the area of health and the dispersion of public money, trusting people only on the basis of the party. I'm so sorry. I have to defend the principles and values I have been serving for many years. This amendment cannot be accepted by me. I call on the Minister responsible to withdraw and bring a bill, what he promised, which I will be happy to vote for, and not only will I vote for, but I will work for it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr. Ursuzides. Mrs Eleni Fisherea, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes, I will beg.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u368	Good evening. This bill comes as a necessary legislative initiative, as there has been a long-term absence of an institutional framework for the rights of immigrants. In this way, a framework of practical problems was created in terms of their living conditions, but also an environment of extreme right-wing rhetoric that acted as a counterweight, glossing out the real causes of poverty and impoverishment, which are the extreme neoliberal policies. For SYRIZA immigrants and refugees are people with increased living and working problems who have emigrated or left their country because their lives, economic and physical, were there impossible. This, of course, does not deny the need for a plan: the development of immigration policy that Greece has never had, especially today, which is an increased refugee problem in Syria, Iraq and, more generally, in the Middle East, which has arisen because of widespread wars, with the strongest states in the world having contributed, for their own purposes, to a great deal. In these circumstances, then, we bring a bill, not on the basis of our ideological project, that is, our position that those children born in Greece either from nationals or from immigrants and immigrants are Greek citizens and must be written in the polls as Greek citizens. And that is not the bill that we would have introduced if the decision of the Council of State had not been preceded. The previous law on the acquisition of citizenship, Ragosi, laid down a new framework, utilizing a substantial link between the definition of citizenship, the birth and the grandeur in the country, the bond of the right of the ground. However, the decision of the Council of State, which considered that the law of the territory of the birth is not enough, has come to make additional conditions for integration into the Greek educational and school network. Of course, this decision did not take proper account of the fact that the child born of people who are Greek citizens, whether for generations or naturalized, does not in any case have a conscience about the Greek national community. Therefore, this opposition undermined a concept of integration, oriented on blood and genetic criteria. He set criteria such as the accession process to the Greek national community, which was linked to the will to join the culture of the national community. Of course, it is not indifferent to connect with the national community, but the people of the Greek state may also include individuals, who belong at the same time to other national communities, which is in existence and which operate in other states. As a result of the decision of the Council of State, the status of integration into Greek citizenship of children from immigrant parents born in Greece remained dark and gray, and indeed, for a long period of regulator, even the processes of naturalisation of minors who had started and moved forward before the decision was adopted and thus abolished have acquired rights. The criterion of admission to primary school is therefore added in this draft law, namely, the expression, in a significant and clear way, of the desire to participate in Greek education. At this point I would like to stress, in relation to successful schooling, that the issue of school failure is extremely common in an intercultural environment which is difficult and often hostile to children of migrants living in Greece, if we take into account the great difficulties arising from the interculturality and increased effort needed, but often not provided, as should be, with initiatives and through the state. In this context, however, an unequal regime is being created, as the children of the poor Greeks who do not manage to do so at school lose their social and labour supplies, but not their political rights. On the contrary, the children of migrants who fail to do so in school lose the prerequisite for their integration into the status of Greek citizen. It is therefore double the loss and deprivation. We will therefore have to change the criterion of school success in the future, by going through the forced successful schooling for a number of years. Also, as has been said by the institutions, the arrangement concerning the continuous five-year stay by at least one of the migrant parents, although it is more favourable than the 'Ragosia law' which concerned both parents, continues to move in a very strict context, taking into account the current circumstances, as this parent should have a long-stay leave during the Migration Code, or an indefinite period or ten-year period, or a status of political refugee or a second-generation or other residence permit, as specifically specified. There is a problem here, however. First of all, the residence permit was valid for an indefinite period since 2001, but the number of those who have received it has not been very large, as many conditions have been laid down. The long-term residence permit has existed since 2008, but has been substantially amended in strict acquisition conditions, such as proof of a large number of press and social security. Many immigrants and immigrants do not actually have these conditions. Moreover, over the past five years, as we know, there has been no process of institutionalised migrants living in Greece. Therefore, either because of the lack of legalisation process over the past five years or because of the difficulty of obtaining these titles and conditions, there should be a wider and more feasible for many interested and interested parties: not to be permanent years. In conclusion, I would like to say that the new rules under the Immigration Code are extremely positive. These provisions cover legal gaps in order to significantly reduce the number of immigrants without documents. Also, the Immigration Code is incorporated into granting humanitarian permits, but also further facilitated by the family reunification of migrants and refugees. Finally, the bill deals with the ideologies that form the backbone of racism, xenophobia and the unbearable livelihood of many of our fellow citizens in Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The extreme right-wing rhetoric sows fear when it comes to rights relating to immigrants and immigrants, as in their own view rights constitute a disaster and danger. But rights never take away, but add to society, especially when it comes to powerless class and social. It is also strange that none of the right-wing defenders are afraid of the injustice that has been committed for so many years, depriving children of second generation immigrant rights. It is clear to us that neoliberalism with its rhetoric and its policy led part of society to determination, silently and underground. That is why the fight to stop this determination must in no way fall short of the battle against the memorial politicians and austerity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mrs. Fishera. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-07-S1-commons.u370	With the consent of the House at 0.41' the meeting for Wednesday, July 8, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of the House legislative work: Continuation of the debate and vote on the articles and on the whole draft law: "Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Nationality - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on a single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’.
