ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Resolution of the State Budget for the financial year 2016’. Before we begin, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the southern theory of fifteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 1st PAAL Sivitanidium. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd General School of Ilio. We also welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Barriotas from the river has the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u2	Good morning! Thank you, Madam President. This is the second budget session I have the honour of being first. I was in the committee, too. I said to the committee - and I also intended to repeat today - that this is another Memorandum of Understanding, in the sense that it is a budget after agreement with the Troika and the lenders. I have to correct: this is a pre-memorandum budget. I think that in the past few days it has become clear from various political events that this is a budget coming from the times of innocence where budgets were made, drawn up, discussed and voted not to be implemented. I think it is a budget that will not be implemented at all. In other words, it is a memorial budget, in the sense that I have said before. It captures a framework of economics that has been obtained, after an agreement has been reached, after the third memorandum, as it has been passed and specialised by the government in the meantime. From this point of view, it does not differ much in philosophy and references to the 2015, 2014 and 2013 budget, since it has the same logic and pursuits, budgetary discipline and the achievement of objectives that have to do with the processing of loans and debt. However, he has an additional element, since he is the first budget of the Left Government: he captures the collapse of the policy, with which that government went to power and continued throughout 2015. So, in essence, it is the awkward adoption of a model of exactly the same terms that existed before a government that is rather awkward with respect to its implementation and policy making. The truth is - we all remember it - that 2015 has been a very intense year, with controversy, with the historic real rise of the Left in the government for the first time in the Reformation, with Memorandum III, and with a major damage - economic, I mean, an impact - which is reflected in the budget and we will see it then, since the general government's debt due to the political events in 2015 amounts to 190% of gross national income compared to 178% in 2014. In absolute numbers, debt increases by nearly 10 billion. At the same time, GDP declines and the debt ratio, as a percentage of GDP, is considerably worsening, but this is an indicator that has been forgotten - curiously how - and in previous periods was used as the most important element of the country's economic development. Here, then, were the political battles and negotiations within and outside, with serious consequences. The economic climate indicator, says the budget report, has deteriorated significantly in 2015 and will probably deteriorate in 2016, at a time when the corresponding European index is increasing, as it appears that everyone begins to emerge from the recession and from the dawn of the crisis, everyone except Greece, starting in 2016, bringing the weights of a negative financial 2015. I really heard Mr Tsakalotos say yesterday in committee with pleasure that the recession is less than expected, that it is not - 2.3% which was captured in the draft budget, but is less, that it is zero in 2015 and less in 2016. These have been revised in the hands. In the meantime, in any case, there is no stop to damage, which, as I said before, comes from the policy, mistakes or problems that have arisen since 2015. It is damage, that is, 100% due to the Left Government. It is a damage that reflects the government's political choices during 2015, since I am obliged to recall that the International Monetary Fund predicted growth for 2015, significant growth for 2016 and even more important for 2017. The bad and inadequate, in my view, previous governments have had this data. With this, the Left Government, unfortunately, seems - I repeat - worse than the previous governments in the economic sector, which, in my opinion, were unable to do what they had to do to the Greek people. In short, we are now where we could be in March, with a very great financial damage, precisely because we spent a whole year a little - very chasing our tail as a society and as a government and Mr Tsakalots and others are already celebrating because the damage was not too great. On a psychological level, that is understandable and explained, feeling relief, because killing is not so much murder or is less, but at political level to a people who have been really groaning over the past five years I do not think there is room for celebration. So we have not broken the memorials, we have forgotten this policy, we have not come out - thank God - in the drachma. We agreed as naughty children after various proud negotiations, sent an account of some tens of billions to the Greek people, but some say that we went down to the September elections and won, we were entitled. I think - and this is a mistaken position - that the people voted and supported the government with a view to a different policy. If not the Thessaloniki programme, which the people being less naive than some in this Chamber, I do not think they ever believed, at least in the majority of them, it believed part of the announcements and, above all, a different approach to the issue of the country's economic problem. It is true that we all hoped - even the non-voting, like the speaker - that there would be a difference, and at least the 2015 battle and its losses would not be lost, but rather they would be somewhat positively reflected in economic policy from now on. But I'm very afraid that's all forgotten. It is not only forgotten in 2012, 2011, January and Thessaloniki, but the things you said in September have also been forgotten. The equivalents and the parallel program are also a memory, together with the Yunker package, which at least has not been seen at the moment. There are no forward-looking development measures in this budget, but only fiscal measures. I am not going to mention what you have been saying about the abolition of HPAI or the increase in minimum wages, etc. I would simply point out that this budget is not developmental or fundamentally progressive, for it is actually in the standards of the previous ones. It's a booklet without any inspiration. He's not a programmer budget. It is not a budget that sets targets that exceed the year and serves them. It is not a budget that puts a vision and tries to reach it. It has no specific actions at no level and it does not describe specific actions. The best thing we can find in the budget report is the general promises of the type of 'corruption' or'reduction of tax evasion', without specific measures, without planning. All of this is correct, but the budget means that the way, method, application time and, above all, its print on the economic, positive or negative is written. The main problem with the budget is not the massive increase in taxes and cuts, nor the zero reduction in public expenditure. Mostly it is the embarrassment, the failure to describe by the Government and the financial staff of a coherent target for the country for 2020. So what is the national target for 2020? How does the 2016 budget serve him? By straightening up some bills? Is the debt cut, the Holy Grail of our society and the country's goal for the next three years? Is the exit on the markets that I hear from some late neoliberals of the government's party putting him as a target, as if Samaras for the next fifteen months, or is the reform and reconstruction of the country's production base? I think we need to agree - and we will agree - that this is the national objective, except that it must be described and specified. Unfortunately, this is not the case either in the budget or in the government's rhetoric which is being used in general terms. I am reading from an article of the “AGEIS” in Genoa, 2015, prior to the elections, regarding the Thessaloniki Programme: “The anti-fungal policy that we are planning with economic redistribution and recovery measures - an increase in the minimum wage, a reduction in indirect taxes for the sake of direct, a shift of the tax burden from low and middle to high incomes, an increase in the Public Investment Programme, etc. - it's a proposition." It could be discussed and there could be disagreements, but it is a proposal. But is there a budget? Let's start at the end. The Public Investment Programme is landed where it has been throughout the five years of the crisis. In addition to or above EUR 100 million, the Public Investment Programme is EUR 6.5 billion. It's the same now. I think it's EUR 6.7 billion. Where are the forward investments that we said before and which were a pillar of the election campaign in September? Where is development support? Where are the development measures in the budget, even what you thought had to be done? The weight transfer to the upper layers? Unless the definition of "plus" is Manolis Glezou, i.e. 20,000 euros and over family income, because they are not, there are no weight transfers in the upper layers. EUR 32 million of the EUR 2 billion tax is an increase in the luxury tax. To have a comparison, the advance payment of farmers is EUR 40 million. It's funny about the rest. As far as horizontal pension cuts are concerned, so far - I mean 6% for health to the subsidiary - we are anxious to see the cuts, the depth and the distribution of the cuts in the new insurance, for which the government seems to be having difficulty in ending up and bringing to Parliament. It is essential that there should be an increase in extradition, rather than a reduction in expenditure. It is completely old-fashioned to see that customer networks are kept in public for the sake of increasing direct and indirect taxes, the reason of which is worsening. The indirect taxes are not reduced, as the Thessaloniki Programme and the "AGEY" in Genaris said, but are increased, compared to the direct ones. He is wrong again, not the richest in this method. However, the main problem is that the 2016 receipts come from only 90% of new taxes and just 10% of expenditure reductions. We said we won't hurt the public clientele. The worst of all - to make a prediction, since we are talking about forecasts - is that it is also fake. The 10% target is not going to be achieved either. Public expenditure will escape, as will the entire budget. The budget will probably not be kept. I don't think there's any intent to be observed. He'll be derailed and too fast. I will only bring two examples of the attitude that will lead to this. I shall refer to two events yesterday. One is the statement 'I am proposing an amendment, but I will not apply it' to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Apostolos, which features the meaning and the step of the government, in relation to the European Union, and the other is the amendment to health, which actually gives the governors of public hospitals the right to blow into their air anyway. It is something that comes back in the 1990s. We know since then that when you allow payroll expenses from the hospital budget from other codes - hospitals, etc. - It's a mess. It was in hospitals, PPC, everywhere. There were examples where there was no oil for heating, because the money for heating had been disbursed to pay overtime. That's gonna happen again now. It can suit colleagues in hospitals who do fall and have a huge problem, but it will blow the budgets of hospitals into the air. This game, the troika, because this is what it is - it's damaged and it's sequel. It is number 2 or number 3. You know, in movies, the second or third is far lower than the original. The characteristic of this model, in fact, is 'we mock the troika'. The intelligence against the porcelain is paid by the Greek people in the next fiscal cycle. The Greek people will therefore be paying for it very soon, as the budget will not be implemented and it will not be an achievement of deception by Europeans. It will be a budget gap, which will have to be negotiated again and which will lead to new budgetary measures. I'm afraid that's where we're headed. I will not say anything about the hospitals, because, as I said, it makes no sense - after all, I have no time - and I have explained why. The budgets are fictitious, since they have been introduced from behind mechanisms which actually undermine them. I will only note that despite the much announced recruitment for 2016 of three and a half thousand young people to the Ministry of Health, there is no difference in the payroll budget for the Ministry of Health payroll. I have said that I could comment too much. I am convinced, however, that the budget is a pretext. It was created to capture the memorandum in an accounting manner, but it is not going to be applied, not for objective reasons, not because society cannot stand, but because the tax capacity of traders, civil servants and all other tax balances cannot stand. It is a very serious argument, especially when one escalating taxes on an already-inhabited country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. The budget will not be implemented mainly because the government does not intend to honour its commitments. As we saw yesterday - we see them every day - the logic of the breakthrough is alive and vigilant, it will be undermined by the government itself by budgetary discipline, based on the principle that we see them expressed in the previous days 'I am 'legalising' or 'legislation on the background', with a view to breaking'. So, through constant overruns and budget undermining, we will get back to where we were before, to the exodus of expenditure and to the logic of 2010, 2009, 2008, where the budget was a pretext for government measure, which was not observed very much, but, by the difference, that we will need to take budgetary measures again in terms that are much worse for the people and the economy, as is the case in the last five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Economou has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, the debate on the budget is the top debate in Parliament, as it is the first law to define and reveal government policy most often. It shows clearly, as it is now based on numbers and planning organized by the government, what government policy is next year. That is why the debate on this law is of particular importance, and indeed, when this debate coincides with the surrounding atmosphere that is being formed, especially after the Council of Heads of State and Government caused by Mr Tsipras on consensus and consensus. Two words, which are often confused, I deliberately fear. And since the New Democracy has made me the honour of placing myself on the social budget, it is a great opportunity - I think - to see who is honest, who is not acting and what reason in this country can be of value - if we can say that it is worthy - when it is traditional, hypocritical, fake and false. Mr Tsipras has had the political courage - and I will explain that - to say that all the political forces must sign a text so that pensions are not reduced. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. But then I say I've made no mistake. I look back at the numbers and I look back at the budget, Mr. Theonas - a historic executive of the trade union movement and until the former commander of IKA - to see if I have made a mistake. But, looking again at the numbers, I go to page 123-124, and I say, doesn't the good guy Tsipras want to lower the pensions and the bad guys want to? And what Tsipras brings here, and you'll all vote for it, SYRIZA's MPs, what is it? Pension increases? Stabilisation of pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u5	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u6	So since you're in advance and say 'yes' - because you have not studied the budget - let me tell you that on page 109 you will vote with your two hands, all of you, 711 million cuts by pensioners, because you will increase contributions: 6% in the main pension and 6% in the supplementary pension for the EEA. That money won't leave your pocket. Retired people will pay for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u7	You give them to the lenders?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u8	On page 124 Mr. Katrugalos, do you know what he says? That 493.5 million has saved - it has the nerve to say, I say pension towel - for the adjustment of pensions. I mean, insurance. The insurance's here, I claim. The insurance today will vote on it. Ladies and gentlemen, 102 million for the increase in OGA contributions is an increase in the OGA pensioners' pocket or a reduction in the OGA pensions? Increase in contributions of 102 million! Does Mr. Tsipras mean signing a text of all the political leaders so as not to reduce pensions? Because on page 124 it is shredded, diluted and analgamous, 223 million from the CSCE. Have you dared to cut the CSCE into seventy thousand retired people who took it, the low pensioners? And you come and ask for a text so that the pensions aren't cut? On page 124, 223 million! In this budget? In the budget of the 'bad governments of the right'? Which budget do I read? Today's budget. Read it and you open your eyes. On page 123, the 188 million cuts from public pensions by Mr. Tsipras or the bad Opposition? Mr Alexiadis laughs. I've already told the committee and I'm waiting for some answers. I hope that today in plenary he will sit down and discuss. So who cuts these 188 million? The fierce Tsipras, who says "I will not cut pensions. Sign the text.’ And he comes and cuts himself in 2016. That is why I am saying, Mr Alexiadis, that the insurance is here today. On page 124, you cut 87 million for the application of an adjustment coefficient and 78 million for the effect of the reduction of early pensions on the one hand. Do you know how much these are? It's 165 million. Who's cutting them? Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u9	Total?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u10	We'll take the whole thing off. We're gonna get her out of here. You'll get the bill. He'll come to you politically. He'll come to you in a lot of ways. Also on page 124, 16 million for the adjustment, abolition of the minimum pension rate for under sixty-seven years. Who's cutting these? Tsipra's twin brother or himself? And I see here another 29 million anti-retirement counterstitutes. Another 29 million cut. Total? Forty-five. Who's cutting these? So the man who makes these crimes here, who has the nerve and cuts 1,850,000,000 in 2016, is not entitled to speak. Not only because he covetously talked about "the screaming dogs," but he has to tell us what role he has. And what's the same. And what "dogs" and what "caravans" do. I have more songs to tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u11	Get on the horse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u12	But be careful to see. Shall we finish here? Does the 'first time left' crime stop here with the second budget you bring, which is slashing the social state? Tell me about it. You voted last year as the first humanitarian crisis law when you took over the government and gave you 200 million. It was a great move, as the 455 million in 2014 that Samara gave was little. You gave 200 million. But anyway, so much you've had, so much you've given. You were committed to giving every year 200 million. Last year you replied for 2015. You said to Starura that it would be 100 million after all. And this year there is not a single euro in the budget. Will you give it to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u13	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u14	You don't? You're right. If you find suckers and put them in the head with the bill, you're right. The two hundred became a hundred and the hundred became zero. This, to reveal everyone what they're doing. The 105 million cut out of the heating benefits is a fair social policy? I had asked my colleagues here about the glow back, which, when applied to the EPPY, was - how did you say so? - the banner of liberalism, cutting drugs from our poor fellow citizen. When you celebrate this year, why do you apply it to hospitals, how many neoliberal banners do we have to give you to keep? When the "bad right" did it, it was the banner of neoliberalism that cuts the drug from the poor citizen. This year you bring it to hospitals. And I ask: How many banners of neoliberalism do you have to lift up to get credit? Has Mr Mardas, Mr Alexiades, been restored to history as he also hid a very strong memorandum? I, Mr Alexiadis, will raise the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u15	How much did you cut? You cut 40%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u16	On pages 109 and 111 you write 711 million in favor of EEAY. It is the so-called 6% increase in contributions to the mains and 6% to supplementary pensions. A total of seven hundred 11. I'm going to the EEA code and I see it's 274 million. Can you explain to us where the 437 million goes? Will you close another hole? You're gonna put them in the pocket and leave? Will you donate them to anyone else in any other state? What are you gonna do with the 437 million? Where are they going? You must tell the truth and be clean to the people. You're bringing in an increase in contributions for the EPPY. Go on, my dear colleague, to the code on page 111 and you'll see that EEAY has 274. Where's the other 437? Is that creative accounting or not? Is that a deception of the Greek people or not? The attitude of payments to the social state is great. In 2012 we had 8.7 billion overdue. In 2014 we went to $3.8 billion. and this year - oh of the miracle - at 6 billion. So in one year you have increased the time-lag by 60%. You'll tell me. What's going on? It's all right, let the sloppy businessmen pay for it and close some business! Now if some people get to unemployment, it's okay! However, of the six billion, that is to say 2.2 billion. increased over a year, 4 billion at random, Mr Alexiadis, are in the area of the social state, the insurance funds, the hospitals, the benefits. That's the $4 billion. In other words, you have not paid any pharmacists, you have not paid doctors, diagnostic centres, you have not paid a series of business circles and legal persons, so that the economy stays behind and everything blocks. They're interconnected and they communicate containers. I see Mr Giannakis here from Preveza, who was telling me a moment ago that he's closing the Preveza Hospital. He has nothing to pay for. We had a conversation. You objected when I told you in the police department committee, you spoke about a reduction in costs. I'm asking you if that's why you're closing down the police stations and opposing you and getting angry. You mustn't. Police departments, i.e. civil security, must not enter the memorial balance of those who are trying to save, even at the expense of the fundamental right to security. What have you not accounted for in this budget, Mr Alexiadis? I address you because you are also a Minister of Finance. The court decisions on the pensions of soldiers and judges have you calculated them? There are judicial decisions. You're committed to paying them. And don't tell me about the EUR 1 billion, which is on page 77, in the budget reserves, because from what we hear and know, it's ECU 2.5 billion. Such decisions. You're missing something. Are the pensions still to be issued, have you calculated them? That's three hundred thousand. Third - should I say the third? - the cash that you picked up in the summer, the cash cash from the cash register, will you return it? What life? I say this because you move your head, Mr Papadopoulos, and, as I say, you say 'yes'. What life will you return them to? This year, next year? Cash assets, I say, not reserves. I say this because some colleagues here are confusing the terminologies. I'm talking about the cash that the funds had, to make your grand and great, "heroic" negotiation. It's a good amount. Will you pack them up? Will you return them back? I don't see it anywhere in the budget. And I see the governors of the funds - who have appointed most of you - to grow and say 'I have no payment'. It breaks, of course, and the EIF's subsidiary - you know that - and 2 million shares are liquidated to pay for the December pensions. Did you hear the news? The supplementary pensions in December will be paid because 2 million shares came out but you have received the available funds. Give the available amount you owe. Of course, for me, it is a great and very tough crime when you put your hand in the CABE. The Generation Solidarity Fund for our insurance system cannot be looted in this shameful way, taking 435 million in 2015 and 435 million in 2016. You get 900 million, close to 1 billion, from the next generations, and of course it is understandable that younger people at age have a grim future with you in the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Your forecasts of unemployment are a little better, if it were a stagnation, with 0.4% drop in employment, if it did not frustrate you again. You're out. ELSTAT gives you 1.1%. Isn't that right? Only for the current situation you cannot keep up with reality. ELSTAT says 1.1% recession. You had zero in the budget. This will be transferred to 2016. Now tell me, are you stagnating unemployment and 0.4% drop in employment or with the new data will unemployment resurrect and will it take the person who has already taken him and are we losing another year in this case? Do you have any funds beyond this 120 fund to OAS, which will in fact play no role in increasing training programmes? Do you have any answers? I ask you, because in the whole budget I do not see an answer, one question of how unemployment is to be tackled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have some more time, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u17	How much do you want, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u18	I think I'll be out of it in two minutes. The minimum guaranteed income you have in mind? As a wish you have it. Do you realize, of course, that the minimum guaranteed income you have in mind, do you know how to pay for it? On page 44 you say that it can be found with a few cuts of 0.5% of GDP, or 900 million. Make a wish, pray, make your cross and say that "I can find 900 million by making cuts". What are you gonna cut? Either you don't make the minimum guaranteed income or you'll cut. Will you cut more pensions and other allowances? Will you cut back to give the minimum guaranteed income? What's your policy? Is it based on the minimum guaranteed income or pension cut? Well, I'm not talking about employers' contributions. You'll get it back. The orders were given yesterday at the conference. Of course, because you have some budgets with the hundred-dollar settings that all these arrangements fall out and because they are not going well, look at your revenues in this area, namely the facilities you give. As many companies will not have the opportunity, you will of course understand that the revenues you have budgeted will not be made available. Find some equivalent. From the Lagard list 2.5 billion dollars. You said you'd save. You didn't say it personally, but Mr. Nicoludis. Mr Nikoloudis, Minister for the Fight against Corruption, as he appeared here, said: ‘2.5 billion. I will bring to the funds." We went to the panels and had the sieges every day saying: "We will collect tax evasion and corruption." You were talking about 2.5 billion. Okay, pick her up. Who's gonna say no? We've got December, and we've got zero on the clay. No euros on the fund. What's going to happen, guys? Will you pick up any francs on the Lagard list or is it hard?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u19	And debt write-offs over 1 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u20	How much did you get?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u21	I asked my dear Alexiadis a question...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u22	Finish, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u23	Yeah, I'm done. I asked Mr Alexiadis, and I say to him: 'The previous speakers have not done so well!' - not to say things that don't work - "But you who had done this banner..." - Thirty-seven checks, Mr. Theonas,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u24	You're smiling, but there are.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u25	Thirty-seven audits in 2015;
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u26	It's all there. If you want, I'll give you that. It was 38 million out of one...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u27	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u28	Did you see where we mixed up? If we were in the young haunts, I'd say what we had confused, but because we're here and we respect the space, I'll tell you, well, that for the Lagard list you've done thirty-seven checks - so my dear Mr. Alexiadis had answered - the whole year! Ask Mr. Alexiades, when he's given the floor, how much he's picked up and put into the cashier. As for the 37 million, you've confused things. Mr. Theonas, I respect you very much and you know that, but 37 million is another case. And I don't know who you're talking about. Are you saying the 180 million charismatic provisions to close cases? But we're opening it up and going away. I said about the Lagard list, 'cause it hurts me personally for nine months at the board of inquiry. I had Konstantopoulou, Dritsa and Kontonis screaming, along with me to say "go the money", to make interventions and ask for the money from the previous ones. They did a hundred and fifty eight checks in 2014. In 2015, thirty-seven checks. Why? Are you afraid of anything? Do you have anything to hide? Shouldn't you get the money from the Lagard list, from the Liechtenstein list of offshore list? Fifty thousand transfers. What do we do about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u29	Come on, Mr. Economou. Now you're not talking about the budget! You're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u30	Isn't the budget the money and the equivalent? I shall close, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance. What we have to say as a New Democracy is, of course, that we do not vote for such an irreversible budget. The New Democracy programme - I did not have time to tell you in my speech, but it is very important - has the means and means of a real social policy and not through an unjust and customer state. We will therefore submit it in the Minutes so that the desolate and curious of Ethiopia sit down to read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u31	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u32	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u33	It is certainly legitimate and criticism and we are here to discuss the budgetary issues in detail. Of course, we are not here to have a debate and to be recorded in some minutes and to remain in the history of the future, but to give answers to what concerns citizens and society today. We will be here long hours and we will respond to our speeches. But I just want to stand on two points. When there is criticism of government policy, there must also be a proposal on what we are proposing toward government policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u34	I filed my speech!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u35	The government, in the opinion of the Opposition, has the most devastating, most dead-end and the most anti-development policy. You've told everything about the best characterizations. But what's the answer? Take care very well and it is important that the Greek people understand what the answer is. As far as the insurance funds are concerned, the criticism of the government is the return to yesterday, the PSI, to the strange administrations of insurance companies, to some bonds that justice is looking for. That is the proposal of the Opposition. The criticism of today is the return to yesterday, to all the things that led us here. Because a political question remains unanswered. How was our insurance system driven here? Was there an earthquake, a flood, a disaster through a policy? [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Secondly - and I close, Madam President - there is a criticism of tax evasion and a point of argument on the Lagard list. Have you forgotten that here in Parliament we have repeatedly asked for the question 'what did you do in 2010, 2011 and 2012?' Where was Lista? Who has political, criminal and disciplinary responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u36	And you have to do the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u37	What did we do, just because we're not the same? We're not the same, nobody holds us, and we don't owe anyone! The Lagard list...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u38	We're waiting for the names! Tell me about the millionaire we're talking about! You're not saying anything! Let go of that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u39	I am waiting, Mr. Congressman, for your pre-service to the Ministry of Finance...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u40	Say names! We're waiting for the names!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u41	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen! It's still 10:30 in the morning! We haven't raised the tons in a while!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u42	I expect you to respond with the experience you have from the Ministry of Finance, about where the list was for three years!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u43	We've asked you three questions, and you don't answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Kutsuko, it's too early for you to get up so much! Slow down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u45	They're causing me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u46	Closed up, then, because we're not the same...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u48	...the list that came from Rhineland, Westphalia is already in the financial prosecutors, along with an operational plan, and we're committed to informing the House every month of the course of the investigation. That's our difference!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u49	That's what's gone off now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u50	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Stavura, we're not going to end this way! One speaks 20 minutes, you answer. Let the list go a little further.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u52	I have the right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u53	What do you want, Mr. Stakoura?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u54	I have the right to speak, Madam President, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u55	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u56	For what we are talking about, Madam President. For a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u57	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u58	Indeed - and we must agree in this Chamber - the problem of tax evasion is timeless and inter-regional. And all parties must make a contribution in this direction. But we must accept, Minister, and what has happened in the past. As you mentioned what has happened, then, I would like to tell you that what you mentioned had been done by the previous ones. I would like to say to you that the ILO and the tax administration had completed, in the years you mentioned, the preparatory work to check that list and the lists had then gone - in 2012 and 2013 - to the financial prosecutors. Indeed, we are not satisfied with the result. However, in any event, the result of the period 2013-2014 was better than the result of 2015. And that's to tell all the evidence. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased At some point in the debate we should also raise the question of how many debt write-offs have been made for those who owe more than EUR 1 000 000 to the regulation you have made. In fact, these are debt write-offs to those who owed before the crisis. In other words, it was not a problem of the public debt. Finally, the previous government also took another initiative. He opened an account with the Bank of Greece, in which money is deposited from criminal acts. The previous government received 37,000 euros, while you, based on the 3,500,000 euros budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u59	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u60	Here, Minister, you have the floor. But that's not how we're gonna finish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u61	Madam President, I do not want to trigger any controversy. I just want to talk to evidence. You're pressing open doors. The Treasury filed the data in the House, which shows the course of checks on the Lagard list. It wasn't a secret that leaked. And we said we were not satisfied with what happened in 2015 on the Lagard list. We said so! It's written in the Minutes of the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u62	We agree!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u63	You're messing with two different things and avoiding answering something. I'll be here all day of the budget and wait for an answer. The question is one: We, when we took the list of Rhineland, Westphalia, did not take it either at the Deputy Minister's office or at the Secretary-General's General's. From the department responsible, he went to the financial prosecutors. That's our policy. The political question is what you have done. He took the political person on the list,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u64	He locked it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u65	...he did what he did, he had her three years in his office...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u66	He became a special court!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u67	...and after three years, he handed her over to the competent services. In 2010, 2011 and 2012...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u68	They've been judged!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u69	Leave them to be 'appointed'. We could...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u70	He became a special court!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u71	They were judged and you agree that he did well, Mr. Economou!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u72	He became a special court, I say!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u73	I'm closing up with this because I think it's been made clear. Secondly, because the issue of the hundreds of doses comes back and the same argument is constantly being used, I would like to say that I have tabled the table in this House and I will have to submit it again. As regards the regulation of the hundreds of doses, because this is where some kept coming and said 'Get us the figures over 1,000 000', I tell you that we have brought them, we have tabled them. As far as the regulation of the 100 doses is concerned, then, over 1,000,000 is 0.03%! The ones that have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u74	You don't say the amount!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u75	Wait a minute! 0,03% of the 6 billion 264 million regulated, over a million is 756 million! You know in the amount collected by the arrangement, from 0.03%, what amount did we get? 19.6%! I would like to ask, therefore, what do you think of your lasting argument, 'you have deleted, did you, did you, did you, did you, did you, did you, did you, did you show', what does the evidence show? With the 0.03% that we went to the debt arrangement over a million, we got 20% of the adjustment! Was that a success or a failure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u76	But the answer is obvious!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u77	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u78	It can't be done, Mr. Comrade. It's over here. This circle is over. Mr. Pavlides has the floor for 15 minutes. Fifteen minutes are sufficient time to develop each other's views on the budget. I will be extremely strict in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in my speech in the Committee on Economic Affairs, this government's first budget carries and incorporates in its DNA all negative indicators and all negative figures of governance 2010 and 2014. These are, the fall in GDP by twenty-five percentage points, the increase in debt to GDP by fifty percentage points and the increase in unemployment by seventeen percentage points! It certainly carries the consequences and negative effects behind these figures and rates: deep recession, under-investment, low demand and consumption, black labour, loss of resources to the insurance funds, budgetary measures to deal with deficits. It will be naive at least, anyone who claims that such economic sizes and such negative rates exhaust their influence over a year and do not affect the long-term course of an economy. It would at least be naive or irrelevant from the general economic theory, even at a high school level. We did not hide it, however, at the same time, that this budget also carries the difficult economic environment that was shaped in the period of the long-term negotiation in 2015 - it makes sense, and you do not constantly stress that, as if you discovered America, we ourselves - a tough and difficult negotiation under strong pressure from lenders, which led to bank holidays, credit restrictions and capital controls, with two necessary electoral and political interventions within the second half of 2015, with a banking system that, without having control and rules in its operation, was led to immunity, over-lapping. It was filled with red loans and overcompensated with this company and households, a banking system at risk of collapse, with immediate recapitalisation needs to stay alive and openly the prospect of curtailing the deposits with the beginning of the new year in 2016, with a real risk of grexit and with political statements of your officials that encouraged the departure of deposits abroad, saying that they would probably also go if the SYRIZA government came out again. They obviously did not leave and claim the presidency in your party. Who really will not recognise in such an economic and political environment that it is natural to cultivate a climate of uncertainty, instability and negative effects? However, I did not see anyone in this Chamber applauding the hard illusion of the economy, the programme's obligations and the budgetary constraints in this budget. No one is throwing away the joy of it. We are neither ethers nor happy. However, we are proud that we are choosing, in this difficult situation, to submit a budget that has social characteristics behind the numbers and social mark in favour of the weak, weak and vulnerable groups and the cursed of history. We are proud that we are trying to give - with all the limited powers we have - a social and developmental colour to our economic policy for the new year. This budget carries on its backs the needs of the people's family and sets strict social priorities and class orientation, is not neutral and we did not want it to be neutral. We support this option with EUR 823 million, with social welfare measures, with the card for our thousands of uninsured fellow citizens, with the free access to hospitals, with EUR 62 million for uninsured over-ages, who have so much hurryed to accuse us of forgetting that we have forgotten them when you have done nothing essential to them, with the free movement of the unemployed in the public transport sector and the cancellation of fines for unemployed people in those media, retrospectively since 2010, by extending the minimum guaranteed income and many other measures to tackle the deep humanitarian crisis. And I ask: When did you colleagues in the Opposition put such social priorities? When did you draw up integrated policies for weak and vulnerable social groups? We have three and a half thousand new recruitments after five years in the field of public health, strengthening the National Health System with EUR 300 million and EUR 36 million in the Procurement Committee. We, when we are called upon to reduce expenditure, do not automatically turn against wages and pensions, do not do horizontal, unfair cuts, but targeted. We're reducing military spending. We are reducing counterproductive expenditure and strengthening expenditure with a social and productive mark. We are strengthening the social costs that are immediately necessary, give rise to demand and have a high degree of consumer performance. Because the resource direction towards meeting the needs of the people's family, poor households and the unemployed are resources that objectively and substantially strengthen consumption, are resources that return to demand and market, are neither seas nor seas in the parties nor seas in the media. What we want with this budget: firstly, we want to create an economy in a budgetary balance, which will not continuously give rise to deficits on the backs of society and the country. We want to build an economy that moves into low primary surpluses in the crisis. And we fought hard, as you know, to make it work. Our aim is to open up the budget space and save resources to society and growth with a surplus of 0.5%, up to an amount of EUR 850 million, instead of EUR 3.5% and 4.5%, 6 to 7 billion euros, while at the same time unbundling resources in this direction and in this our political choice. Thirdly, we want to create an economy that further strengthens its social character in the crisis. What have we done and what are we going to do about it? Firstly, we retained the debt with the August agreement, making a mini reorganisation of the public debt for 2015-2018, after we have achieved a 1% reduction in interest rates and increased its repayment time to thirty-three years. Secondly, we are making cuts in unnecessary operating costs. We have reduced the Parliament's budget by the reductions in parliamentary allowances and operating expenses in the lower historical rate of 2.5 to 25% of the state budget. Thirdly, we streamline the rents of state services and ministries. Fourthly, we are hitting tax evasion and tax evasion. We have increased the collection from the control of offshore companies by 30% and, at the same time, we stress the need to intensify the effort even further, by strengthening audit services and control systems. We increased VAT collection, which systematically did not provide businesses in the tourism sector, particularly focusing and staying, by 30% as well. Fifthly, we will restructure the debt after the evaluation that will give signs of writing, within the implementation of this budget, but also in the budgets of the next few years and thus help to strengthen our social and development effort, to cope with the apparent recession of 0.7% anticipated in the first half of 2016 as a result of difficult economic processes and policies in the second half of 2015. But we're keeping low tons. We have moderate optimism and we don't fly into clouds or create false impressions. I am impressed, however, that you are talking about the recession and the decline of GDP. I would like to remind you of a few things about GDP reduction. 2010 was -3.9%. 2011 was -6.1%. 2012 was -7.1%. 2013 was -5.8%. 2014 was - 2.7%. 2015 is -1.1%. And the forecasts for 2016 are 0.7%. In 2010 and 2014, the cumulative reduction was at 25.6%, median of 5.1% per annum during your governance period. In 2015 with 2016, a cumulative decrease of 1.8%, median of 0.9% a year over our days. Your own GDP reduction average annually was 5.1%, while it is 0.9% with our own governance. I think the numbers can speak for themselves. To be honest, no one, of course, can satisfy politically by comparing GDP reductions. But if you were more careful in your criticism when you use numbers, you would see that these things do not work in a political confrontation at least for you. To talk about investments. Our aim is to recover investment in a new investment environment by changing its institutional framework, forming part of a new national eco-design, geared to strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, new technologies and alternative forms of energy, with a stable tax system in investment time. But don't swing the finger on us. And be a little careful in this area too. Based on ELSTAT’s official figures, the investments in 2014 fell to 11.6% of GDP, the lowest percentage since 1960, dived to the drop in gross fixed capital formation since 2011. This indicator - as you well know - is the essential component of GDP, which mitigates overall investment. The free fall of this index, during the period of governance of Samara - Venizelos, is tragic, with 33% of its size, which has led to a significant disinvestment, an investment collapse in the years of your previous government. The Global Economic Forum's general competitiveness index ranks our country in the 81st place for 2015-2016, while it was ten places below, in the 91st place, in 2013-2014 and fifteen places below, in the 96th place, in 2012-2013. Let us all worry about the fact that other countries in the European South which have experienced similar serious economic problems, such as Italy, Portugal, Spain and Ireland, are much higher - forty-three, thirty-eight, thirty-three and twenty-four respectively. Let us honestly see what we can do about it, rather than rocking blindly. We are increasing public investment by 350 million euros. In particular, the public investment programme is expected to reach EUR 6,75 billion, the highest programme after 2010. We increase national participation by about 6%. Obviously, it is not the absolute size of the amount as important as our intention to direct resources towards development - and the small current resources, but also every new resource resulting from the gradual economic upturn since the second half of 2016. You are accusing us of the fact that the public investment programme is expected to be closed to the level of the budget. Why are you isolating only in this year the absorption of a whole programming period 2007-2015, nine whole years, that is? Did the previous PASOK and New Democracy have any responsibility for the inertia and obstruction they have shown? Are they not responsible for the political practice of incomplete projects? Even worse, do they have no responsibility for projects appearing as virtual or for which the necessary resources had not been provided? There were compatible projects of more than EUR 5,7 billion over the period 2007-2015 of the NSRP, as works of immature and incomplete and incomplete and unable to generate costs led to the trap of overcompensation. Honestly, we don't cheer and we're landed. Because we are also aware of the difficult objective situations in our economic process and the limited suffocating framework on which we are working and exercising our policy. We know we owe a lot to local government. The closest institution of central power to the citizen has taken on a great national burden. In addition to its return services, it has taken a complex role in local development, supporting infrastructure and carrying out development projects of important local and beneficial importance, in the primary sector, in the tourist development of the islands, in the roads and in the daily life of the citizen. We owe her a lot, not just material and money. Unfortunately, it has not been attributed, for years now, the cost of responsibility it takes, and often it is the poor relative, the betrayed mistress of the central state. As a child of self-government, I can only love and respect her. We did not include it in the programme, however, of cuts in public spending and we fought hard, at least with the figures, to give it the same resources this year and dominately in its important prosperous policy. We step up its costs to cover wage costs from the reinstatement of municipal police a service that, as you know, is very important for municipal management rather than just. At the same time, it is covered by the cost of paying staff for the cleaning of school units from the educational year 2016-2017 onwards. Renewal of fixed-term contracts for all 2016 and the release of recruitments for TA services will allow local government to design its needs in full. The targeted utilization of the new NRP for the period 2014-2020 will strengthen its weak development prospects. Finally, we walk with steady steps, optimistic and realistic along with the picture of the positive economic forecasts for 2016, the well-known non-measurable measures, which we did not incorporate in the budget, with a realistic budget, a reality in its sizes and estimates without plastic transformations. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, requires a serious, realistic and productive government. Unfortunately, however, it also requires an opposition with the same characteristics. We hope you can make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. Mr. Germenis has the floor for 15 minutes, then Mr. Kokalis from the ANELs and then Mr. Scandalidis from the Democratic Assent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] During the five years of the Memorandum, Greece seems to be governed by a tyrannical regime that aims only to bleed out the economic wealth of its citizens, as well as their literal invasion. Let us see how Aristotle describes the status of tyranny in his work "Politicals": "The pursuit of tyranny is to make the citizens go bankrupt, on the one hand, to keep the guard of the regime with their money and, on the other, to keep the people busy and not to keep the time for pilgrims left." This result is intended both to impose large taxes, to absorb the property of the citizens and to build large projects that deplete public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you have all understood the similarities of the names of Aristotle and the present state - a form that is actually run by heated loan sharks. What makes sense in the exercise of power, but also in life in general, is to be able to organize wisely and methodally a valid procedure to help make the right decisions, depending on the time and the tools it has and you can use effectively. Within a world that lives with strong uncertainty and with rapid developments, the only thing we can exercise control is in our decision-making process. When you have your freedom as a nation to choose you to make decisions, so at the same time have the responsibility of consequences, whether the results are good or bad, then exercise power with national politics. Because what is of interest to a nation - is primarily to serve the interests of itself, but also its citizens. The 2016 budget is a purely fiscal budget. We cannot accept him because it lays the foundations for the total destruction of Greece. The left government, therefore, has clearly turned its arrows against the Greek citizens, who are now called upon to live under the yoke of a "principality", with Greece being inseparable and having literally succumbed to the dispositions of foreign loan sharks. The country's public finances are out of government control. Basically, our homeland is doomed and bankrupt. And, unfortunately, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government seems unable to manage the situation. You have created an economic suffocation, with the constant increase in taxes and there is no prospect of growth, as the result of this budget is, in fact, a redistribution of poverty rather than the well-being of the Greeks. It is typical that you are mocking the Greek people when you are taking on the main guidelines for lending and managing goals for 2016. You say unequivocally and consider it in your favour that in 2015 you administered and exploited the funds available to the general government bodies, you imposed capital controls, at the same time took all the available resources from the municipalities and regions to pay salaries and pensions. That's the incapacity we're talking about! The Greek economy has fallen into a vicious cycle of fiscal adjustment, a so-called materialism, which is not going to be dealt with with with false expectations. The recession is faced with investments in primary production to ensure an increase in employment and incomes. At the same time, citizens' rights are being eliminated in order to achieve compliance with the rule of the balanced budget - the golden rule. Derogation from the gold rule is punishable by a fine of 0,1-0.2% of GDP, paid directly in cash. The new left government has declared Memorandum of Submissiveness and for the next few years Greece will be under the suffocating supervision of loan-growers. You are constantly making repeated mistakes and mistaken choices, such as the one with the alalum about VAT in education or the simulation of VAT in the remote Aegean islands, precisely in the face of competitive Turkey, which has impressively lower rates of VAT. Proceed to bleeding from households and businesses with saving measures of ECU 5.7 billion. The euro. You want to collect an additional total of about EUR 3 billion. Adopted by the Commission on 18 December. Euros from restrictive austerity measures, while you are putting a knife on state spending. In particular, some of the things you want to collect are EUR 142.2 million from the increase in income tax rates from rents, EUR 150 million from the reform of the income tax code, EUR 32 million from the increase in taxation on farmers, EUR 1.31 billion. EUR 114 million from the changes in VAT rates and the gradual abolition of the 30% discount on islands, from the increase in the advance payment of income tax to free professionals, EUR 79 million from the increase in the advance payment of income tax to farmers, EUR 13 million for the abolition of the reimbursement of excise duty on oil for agricultural use, EUR 210 million from the imposition of the special fee of EUR 0,05 per column, in every lucky game of the OPCW. You will also abolish tax exemptions for people in need, such as medical expenses and disability tax rebates. You add an additional 268m euros in the budget in wages and pensions. At the same time, you will also merge special wages or even abolish some, with employees joining the single wage. At the same time, in a census of all public expenditure aimed at abolishing bodies of the general government that are not necessary, the Ministry of Finance will proceed. Will you tell us which bodies are not necessary to the government? There is a zero change in GDP compared with an initial estimate for a recession of 2.3% cumulatively in 2015. In absolute terms GDP is expected to be 174.4 billion. EUR 327.6 billion in 2016, while the general government debt is expected to increase to EUR 327.6 billion. EUR 316.5 billion was granted for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the Particular importance in repayment of due debts seems to give the government's financial staff, as is apparent from the final draft budget for 2016 submitted to the Parliament, which provides for deficits in the social budget, while showing the EPPY surplus for this year, even though the agency continues to owe anyone who speaks Greek to that country. The Government's proposal to close black holes in bodies such as the EEAS for public hospitals is also recorded in the budget. According to the budget authors, in trying to curb the recession, the repayment of government dues will also help to strengthen liquidity in the real economy. Of course, two billion. The following sub-station, which is also going to be made available for debt payments, is minimal to cover the volume of debt, which has been accumulated in the EEAS, particularly when the government's plans are not to go to health. According to the information contained in the final draft, only in hospitals therrears due in September 2015 amounted to EUR 278 million. On the basis of the report prepared by the outgoing president of the EEAS, the Agency’s outstanding debts in August 2015 exceeded 1.8 billion. The Commission has already taken a number of measures, including the introduction of the euro, the so-called government surpluses. Estimated recession - 2.3% of GDP for this year and -1.3% in 2016, instead of the initial projected growth of 2.9% and 3.1% respectively. This translates into a decline in domestic income at 173 bn. EUR 179 billion in 2016, from EUR 179 billion in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium-scale projects. EUR 18 billion in 2014 and a divergence by EUR 18 billion. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium-scale projects. The euro. And for finding 6.4 bn. The government will follow the recipe of the last five years that are taxes, taxes and again. This unprecedented financial adjustment of 61 billion ecus has been made in the past. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for a period of two years from 2010 to the end of 2015, with a total of EUR 65 billion from 2010 to the end of 2015 and a total of EUR 65 billion. The new measures in 2016 resulted in the country's income, GDP, falling by EUR 64 billion. The euro, which is equal to -27% of EUR 237 billion, is an issue of EUR 237 billion, which is equivalent to -27% of the EUR 237 billion. EUR 173 billion in 2009, EUR 173 billion in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium-scale projects. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. For each measure of EUR 1 billion We lose 1 billion euros. Income in euros. In other words, the relationship between the famous multipliers is 1 to 1 instead of 0.1 to 1 provided by the International Monetary Fund. It seems clear that this budget too will be a great fiasco. The backwardness of our national economy after 2008 is obvious and very worrying. When competitive countries go ahead, we go backwards. The protracted decline in overall economic activity and the constant upward trend in public debt are pushing Greece into the margins of the European area. It is clear that the economy has not been able to withstand new taxes for years. On the contrary, it needs safe, friendly, investment, environment with stable fiscal, insurance, framework and reduced bureaucracy to boost entrepreneurship and investment. This is the only way to bring about the bounty of growth that will create jobs and stimulate public revenue and insurance. Aimed reduction of public sector expenditure through universal and fair implementation of the single wage, mergers and abolitions of organisations, dismissal of jurors and people with false documents, control and rationalisation of the functioning of legal persons under private law, economic scales, etc. Goods and services are produced by enterprises. Enterprises are active in various sectors of the economy, within which the gross domestic product is produced. The development prospects of any country in the world are therefore dependent on the possibility that individual sectors will contribute to increasing production - and hence the quantity of goods and services sold. We need to approach the problem on its right basis and draw up a national action plan, away from the stumbling-up of taxes and horizontal unfair cuts. The country needs a national action plan and a true leader that will bring economic but moral rise of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the first part of the 6th Petroupoli High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Red, you have the floor for 15 minutes, and we hope you'll be accurate in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u83	Perhaps a little bit, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u84	I wish. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 fiscal strategy is geared to achieving the budgetary objectives of the Convention - economic agreement with the consolidation of primary surpluses, which allow, on the one hand, the achievement of sustainable upward growth rates and, on the other hand, the extension of programmes of important social and humanitarian interest, as well as of particular budgetary importance, such as: first, the implementation of a new programme for the redundancy of the government's agencies to the real economy from expenditure and, on the other, tax refunds related to funding from the support programme. Secondly, the gradual implementation of the minimum guaranteed income scheme at national level. Thirdly, the implementation of measures to combat the humanitarian crisis and fourthly the reform of the single wage with a neutral financial impact which incorporates important innovations in the management of human resources. For wages and pensions. The cost of wages and pensions is estimated to be EUR 18 million in which, inter alia, the impact of the reform of the single wage has been taken into account, the reduction of estimated retirement leave and the difference in remuneration on an annual basis from the reintroduction of officials who have been made available or made redundant. An important chapter in the budget to be adopted is insurance, care and social protection. The relevant expenditure is to be made available at EUR 13 million. This appropriation is intended to cover grants from the insurance funds, hospitals and expenditure on social protection, luxurious allowances, heating allowance, resource allowance in the AAA as well as other social expenditure. These expenditure includes actions to address the humanitarian crisis immediately, as well as interventions related to the heating allowance and the redefinition of the level of performance of the CDE. Reform of a single wage. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems recorded in the framework of the implementation of the existing single rate - wage bill with Law 4024/2011, as well as the need to re-orientate the remuneration system for civil servants and the wider public sector, as is apparent from the general government's commitment to our partners in the context of the new medium-term budgetary strategy, now marks the need to reform it. In particular, to n. 4336 there is provision for the fiscal neutralization of the existing wage, with the aim of decompressing wage distribution in line with the skills, performance, responsibilities and position of the staff. There is also provision for the balance of direct taxes, which shows a serious attempt at tax justice. In order to reduce expenditure on which we have been very critical. The Ministry of Finance will save enough resources from operating public buildings. And at this point the opposition has not told us what it means as a reduction in expenditure. They want us to fire? Shall we cut wages? There is already a specific project for the utilization of public buildings in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget may be numbered. But the economy is human. And because I am not used to it, and I do not want - to tell you the truth - to read from text, I will have some thoughts on what reasons to vote on the budget. On 14 August the agreement was passed with the vote of the two two two Members. This agreement was notified by the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA to the people and a clear mandate was given to move forward. We find an entirely hypocritical attitude from the opposition, that we do not vote for the prerequisites. Can there be any prerequisites without an agreement? Of course not. Above all, it presupposes the agreement which we have all voted on and that is what we will be judged on. And I think the Greek people appreciated our sincere attitude and gave us the mandate and will continue. Watch out for what kind of trap the opposition parties are falling. The Prime Minister, with the Council of Political Heads, called for dialogue. He didn't ask for responsibility. You're getting confused. He asked for a responsible national attitude. But to come to dialogue and say that I come only to listen, it means that it does not want dialogue. At least make suggestions. What are the proposals? We could then disagree with the Committee on Insurance. We call for a responsible national attitude from the opposition parties, which must respond to the Greek people. They are questions that cannot stand up to the suffering of reason. Are reforms necessary, yes or no? There is a chance that someone would say that, no, it is not necessary. Okay, it's respected. Is the insurance sustainable? Yes or no? I do not go into the logic and in the search for responsibility for who is to blame for the insurance, because the last to blame is us. And we invite you to come and give us the suggestions. But this is not a responsible national attitude, as you did not hold on to red loans. From this step I have said that you have created, gentlemen, PASOK and the New Democracy, the second generation in debt. Because red loans in 2009 were 22 billion, and now it is 78 billion and since there was this vague universal protection - whether there is money or not - from auctioning, the logical development and answer is not to be paid. There are surely vulnerable social groups that we are protecting. But when the other guy knew in 2010, in 2011, with the successive postponements of the problem that they will not confiscate his house, why pay? Therefore, a second generation of overdue debts was created. And the issue of red loans and auctions is coming up to blow as a bomb today and this government is going to resolve it. And it solves this with honesty and social justice, which will be appreciated by the Greek people as well. This openness must be demonstrated and no, 'I don't know, I don't know'. We have said that we are not asking for responsibility, we are asking for a national attitude. But behind the numbers there are always people. Without people, an economy cannot stand. For us the bet - it's for all the parties the bet - is to get the country out of the crisis. For you it's whether you're going to contribute to this effort. The Greek people demand truths and not lies. For us, it's a big bet of fair tax policy. I don't want to say big words. We know that the situation is difficult, but we too will be judged. To establish a fair tax policy, to protect vulnerable social groups, to prohibit PPC from cutting the current - it is legally forbidden - and this should have happened yesterday. PPC has been applying the new contracts for eight months, according to which it is forbidden to cut the current, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know that? It has been proven in this regard and PPC has reformed the contracts. However, the administration does not apply the new contracts and cuts the current. For us, it is a bet on the elementary things in the daily lives of the citizen to resolve them honestly. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to the question of farmers. And it was indeed a bad development for farmers, when after five, six years they have to pay back money. And I saw Mr Apostleu yes, but then he said, 'I don't know'. Oh, no! The people of the Democratic Alliance are calling for equality in illegality. Is that possible? We must respect our corporate obligations. Are we partners in the European Union? We are. Has a decision been made? It's extradition. Are we gonna respect her, yes or no? Of course, the farmers did not have the luck of PASOK, where the party's loans were given up by the Agricultural Bank and the file was filed. However, we must quickly - and this will be the big bet - protect the farmers who are mainly, permanent and exclusively employed. I repeat that in as difficult a position as the Opposition, not knowing what to do, does not propose solutions - asked Alexiadis, 'What do you propose'? - for us are crucial issues and the bet is great, but we have told the Greek people the truth and that truth will be assessed. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that we must in these difficult times be responsible for all of us. It's easy to say nice words and to postpone the problem. But the question is the solution. Classic example: we were accused, the Independent Greeks, of changing our schedule. They told us, "You said it!" However, as the President, Panos Kammenos, said, we agreed to shoot our feet despite the country. This was appreciated by the Greek people? Of course it was appreciated, despite the rabies war. And that's what we're going to do. For all these reasons, therefore, we are calling for the budget to be voted on. Madam President, I think I was consistent and completed my speech in time rather than a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Red. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "The Workshop of Democracy", organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 34th Piraeus Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Scandalides has the floor from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections are very recent and fatal. In the programming statements we have heard the strategy and targets for the coming years, four as the Prime Minister says with intensity. With the State budget for 2016 we are supposed to learn the practical implementation of this strategy, that is, the first major step. Especially during this critical period, the cognitive "The principle is half of everything" finds an absolute application. The country's rebooting is more than half of everything! And the question is whether this budget guarantees, even as a minimum, the country's relaunch. I would like to make a first comment on the two texts: the reason, the arguments, the objectives are the same and the same. The philosophy, the structure, the practice of the Ministry of Finance in the budget are the same and unchanged. It is a poor repetition of the past on the hands, and indeed with a leading difference: so far we have conquered the balanced budgets with a huge effort, and this budget brings us back very much. Of course, the famous 'parallel programme', a ghost programme, is completely absent. There is nowhere in the budget either as a spirit or as a material. It seems that the Minister of Finance doesn't believe it and trusted it. And yet, after a letony contract, which brings the Prime Minister's signature indelibly and is binding on the country for many years to come, what would anyone expect? A programme, an internal redevelopment plan of the country not only by general rules and kilowatts, but with concrete changes and sectoralities in the structures that produce immediate results. As much as you look, unfortunately you won't find these in the budget lines. The truth is painful: you are a government without any reconstruction plan in the country, no new idea for the next national objectives, and your budget does not implement any of the conditions necessary for the relaunch of the economy and for the return to growth. For 2015 a hope had been cultivated for the people for the country and its course. What does the draft budget report admit? That in a year when we have had a substantial improvement in things in the European Union, at a time when the countries of southern Europe have taken steps or even leaps forward, the economic situation has deteriorated dramatically here. In 2015 there was a lost time in relation to the dynamics that developed in previous years. A summary estimate shows a fall in GDP by 8.7 billion, a budget derailment by 6.9 billion, a deterioration in the economic climate index by 10.1 points for the tenth, when improved performance occurs in Europe. And, of course, Capital Controls and a total lack of liquidity in the market. What market? If the central problem of the Greek economy is the lack of wealth generation and the creation of new jobs through the development process, what do the indicators shown in the budget show? Industrial production is drastically declining, agricultural production is sprinkling, trade is in nadir, existing businesses grow if they do not close. As long as you look, there are no numbers and statistics that can document a different picture from the one experienced by the Greek citizen every day. What would be the inception of reversing this situation? How to save the funds directly available in the productive direction. Does the budget say anything about that? Does it mention a change in distribution within the ESDP sectors? Does he mention a change, an improvement or an acceleration in the institutional framework that has been voted on and which is lorries, in the context of agricultural policy and agricultural production? And above all, does he say how investment will be made, how will it even be financed by the private and social economy? What liquidity in the market? What banking system, which was practically impoverished, dissolved, with huge loss of public property? What deception and assumption can today be made against a phenomenon of a state, a bureaucracy in which it operates with a 'cut-down'? What structural changes have been legislated and implemented? What accounts has been made for this tenth month, for these changes that are supposed to have been made - which have never been made - with regard to the structures and functions of the country? But you have guaranteed another policy. You guaranteed a progressive turn. You guaranteed serious reforms. Instead, we have a repetition of the same and the same things, a conservative speech with outbursts of 'lefty' and a process that does not lead anywhere! However, a reconstruction programme should have been drawn up and implemented immediately, not with general rules and development goals, but with concrete changes to structures and with immediate results. The budget is poor! The new one doesn't say anything! As far as the flag with fanaticism is concerned, you are trying to keep in a predatory position every day while coming down to a subservient position and which is the social face of the Left, which is - if you like - the progressive perception of the implementation of any policy, this is where things are taking place tragically to fragilely. The social budget shows us a real tragedy. The account of the crisis continues to pay - with an additional burden, however, unbearable - the middle layers and the non-preferential ones. I heard the Prime Minister yesterday say how different his policy, which is progressive, differs from previous governments. Can it justify the deterioration of the relationship between direct and indirect taxes? Can it justify the dramatic reduction in social spending in almost all areas of social policy and the social state? Can it justify retreating the issue of auctions? He can justify - the most degrading! - the obligation and demand to abolish what progressive provisions have been adopted - these few and insignificant in the face of what has been attempted in previous years - to show, even by substantially, that the Left governs and how fatally has accepted this demand from our lenders? Where does a progressive policy be judged? In the relationship between implementing the need for budgetary balance and, at the same time, carrying out a manifestly progressive strategy for social justice and a fair burden-sharing. This relationship is unequal and grossly unjust, cancels any invoicing and removes all moral advantage for the “first time left”. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following these days the Prime Minister's agonizing attempt to put his choices for insurance in opposition in advance, to transfer the responsibility of his own deadlock to our own backs. I am opposed to the objections to national matters. National issues are being discussed and we will always be consistent with our presence and our proposals with regard to this treatment under a top institution such as the convening of the Council of Civil Heads under the President of the Republic. I want to stay there because it seemed the pretext of the thing. So the Prime Minister chose to implement the transfer of his responsibilities, this top process. The failure of the effort is not primarily that we rightly and rightly did not accept the responsibility, but the ridicule, the breakdown and the institutional degradation that followed. This ridicule and the break-up began immediately after the meeting. They did not have time for the Heads to come out of the President of the Republic and the following was heard: 'Do you not want a consensus? Take more inquiries into the head!' It is indicative of a certain perception and practice. Listen, to finish with this millennial play: Do as many as you like. We could also announce a dozen - we do not do it by a sense of responsibility - the way things handle officials and practices from the "appropriate" composition of your Government. We don't. But do what you want. Do it and nobody's afraid of it. But if you think that consensus is to raise the burden of your choices and incompetence and you to deal with criminalising the past in order, supposedly, to keep your opponents captive, as far as we are concerned, you are knocking on the wrong door. But we didn't get there alone. The conflict continued with the dismantling of the meeting by people who are unconscious of the seriousness of the situation, their role and their mission. The gossip started on the streets and streams of the city: a crisis for the political leaders, the channeling of supposedly information, an infinite donkey that favours political life and even denounces the country's political world and the parliamentary and institutional processes of democracy. We have also seen this work. And that's a thousand-dollar game. And that takes us back, all of us, not just those who use it. Unfortunately, the work was followed up by the Prime Minister's speech to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, not so much about the content that betrays someone who "is on the ropes" and wants to come out of the deadlock, but about the semantics, the way and the style. I fear that Mr Tsipras finally picks out a path that has no return, deleting the hope that he gave birth to a political change for an entire people. You will allow me to keep from what he said, his report on the exhaustion of the four-year period. It is noble and reasonable ambition for every Prime Minister and has the right to believe it and to try it. After all, the country needs nothing but new elections, when there were three successive elections - and it did it itself - the first to change things worse, as it turns out, and the other two to solve its internal problem. The question is not whether the government will last for four years - I wish you so! - but if at the end of the day the country will have come out of the memos. The way you're going, you can't! The target for your boy is too high. It is a high target for anyone in this Chamber who thinks he will manage by himself with the titanic effort that he is required to make in the next phase this big step for the country. And I am referring to the political system as it stands and as it goes, to see that fundamental, large, profound changes in its structure and function are needed at last. Above all, there is a need to change the word, the style, the political dialogue, the political confrontation on specific issues, with concrete proposals, with respect to the other for his or her views, and not through controversy, which is historically outdated, such as the ones we have been living since the days of the Civil War, which has finally ended in the country after so many decades. And I'd like to end with the myth of Sisyphus and a verse of Cavaphis. You know the drama that the country lives today. We raised the stone, like Sisyphus, with a bloody effort for four years in a row, quite close to the top of the mountain. And we don't regret that. Unfortunately, you have brought it back to the forefront and now tired and isolated, an entire people must reinstate it. It takes multiple and titanic efforts. So with the country experiencing this drama, you are unfortunately going with a curious self-sufficiency, with ignorance of the dangers, with an ideological obsession. You are prospering "with pride and drunkenness", as the unscrupulous Alexander wrote in "Darios", whose relative verse I bring back to your memory: "But in all his trouble and evil, the most likely is, of course, arrogance and drunkenness; arrogance and drunkenness would have been of Darius". As far as the budget is concerned, I will once again sign it: Unexpected!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr Scandalides, for keeping time. Now Mr Katsiantonis has the floor from the Centroon Union and then Mr Vettas follows. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, the decline of the Greek economy in 2015 is unprecedented. The most negative circumstances have been created, not only for the 2016 budget, but also for the financial estimates of the coming years. The greatest blow to the Greek economy is overly large government expenditure on total GDP, the high unemployment rate and enormous deflation. All of these three negative indicators are world-wide champions, according to the most recent reliable measurements of economic institutions and international media. Bad with these indicators is not only the display of the tragic situation in which we are in, but also the finding that Greece is not the right country to deal with it at economic level for any reason, whether as an employer or as an investor or as a mere resident. What else does it take to realize and wake up from the political nirvana, which you have been on for ten months? People around us feel that there is precision on the market, that products and services are expensive. However, the figures show us something else, even more tragic: in fact, products and services are cheaper. deflation is close to the unbelievable -1%, which is the world's first. The reason why our country's products and services appear to be expensive to Greek citizens is another. Wages and pensions are falling at a higher rate and in larger sizes than inflation. Even today government actors are making promises for more recruitment to the state machine, for further expansion of the public sector and at the same time increasing taxes on all kinds of productive private activity. In particular, in private entrepreneurial activity, the tax you seek reaches the limits of confiscation. Instead of incentivising the development of entrepreneurship, the upland tax advances, the extraordinary rags and the hunting elephant of the local tax office act as an incentive. We have already criminalised entrepreneurship, and this is reflected in the figures you give us in the 2016 budget, but also in the estimates of regular revenue and expenditure in 2015, where the total tax revenue is at the nominal value of EUR 42.7 billion, which are the lowest tax revenues of the decade. And even worse is that direct taxation is only 19 billion, where direct taxation of legal persons does not exceed EUR 3 billion. At company level - in other words - we are not just at the bottom, but we are moving at the same level as countries with 1/10 of our own population and our own area. The lack of tax revenue has not happened because controls and efforts to combat tax evasion are lag behind. It happened because you closed the banks because you created pessimism and unsurpassed difficulties in the private sector. Business has been cancelled, investment has been cancelled, businesses have migrated by tens of thousands to neighbouring countries. At the same time, however, we have an indicator that goes very well: it is the indicator showing the number of retired people in the public sector to increase by geometric progress. Especially over the past five years, we have had a steady increase and we are approaching the five hundred thousand pensioners in the public sector. The cherry on the cake is the hundreds of millions of euros that cost the elections and the respective election periods that you organised in 2015. Apart from the market freeze, in addition to the natural procrastination shown by private entrepreneurs and investors themselves by reason of the unstable political climate, there was also the huge costs of the referendum. Could they have been avoided, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA-ANEL conflict? I think so. The only change brought about by the elections and the referendum was the inner-party liquidation of SYRIZA from the weights of the Left. The Minister of Finance is trying to convince us that we are in a period of recovery. It is a success in Parliament to recapitalise the banks, when the government itself stood the cause of the need to recapitalise, after the full equilibrium of their share value. You did not hesitate to lose more than 30 billion shares in our country's banking institutions. You didn't calculate it, so you're not capable of ruling. You tell us, through the Minister of Finance, that if the banks are recapitalised and if the next assessments are successful, it is a debt debate that is certain. This is a huge lie that you spread to the world either by naiveness or by pheasantness. Just on November 30th, the representative of the Commission and Head of Institutions, Mrs Costello, stated that the conditions, in addition to the infinite prerequisites, are as follows: to improve Greece's position on competitiveness, to accelerate the Structural Funds' resources, and third and lastly, to have a much more positive agenda for investment with the emphasis on the removal of useless restrictions. What do you think you're gonna do in a few months? I would like to inform you that these three standards will not apply for at least the next few years. As long as there are, even minimum capital restrictions, as long as there is no political stability, as long as pessimism in the private sector is at the highest point, none of these three conditions will be possible. The debt write-down is therefore impossible. So stop imagining growth and prosperity for the next few months or for the next few years and tell the truth to the world. Development will come much later, from 2020 onwards, as the International Monetary Fund and the major international economic actors confesss. The country will not see prosperity during this decade. Unfortunately, you have plunged us into an economic, political and social middle ages. Beyond this obvious pessimism, however, you have soared our country's inspiring potential, young scientists, innovative professionals still have all the good will to offer actively. According to a survey carried out these days by the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce, one of the three Greek students intends to open his own business. According to the survey, in an environment of persistently high unemployment, economic stagnation and uncertainty, 81% of the respondents appear positive in relation to entrepreneurship as a perspective. At the same time, however, they state reasoning about the state of the country and the existing business environment. All these young people you will disappoint them. These young people would be able to take the country into their hands and invest all year round and their talent in innovative activities. They would also be able to increase our direct tax revenue and insurance contributions, but also to reduce unemployment. Nevertheless, Greece will not embrace them. At best, they'll emigrate. At the worst, they will remain in our country temporarily fed by another source of family income until they find a low-paid job that they did not study or love. And that's all why? But because in this country the governments concerned are facing private entrepreneurship as a disease to be exterminated. This research results in positions which the Centro Association has been embracing for many years. In summary, I will refer to ten passive points: strengthening of the business perception of universities. Encouraging students' entrepreneurial initiatives. Active support for new entrepreneurial schemes from universities. Association of educational institutions with entrepreneurial capacity. Intensification of extroversion and international networking. Exploiting academic research. Establish flexible corporate structures and procedures. Improving the business framework. Promoting alternative forms of funding. Finally, establish a flexible fiscal framework. But nothing, unfortunately, is not the case. The tax system is an incredible labyrinth with the tax office at the center of the labyrinth waiting as a Minotaur to tear his victim apart. Universities are in their world and are in all international rankings at the lowest positions of research, academic and more general productive activity. Only the attempt to find the word "entrepreneurship" next to the word "university" is a deadly sin, when the Western world has created an inseparable relationship of university and economic activity, when entrepreneurship and growth starts from science and go hand in hand with the way of prosperity. I must stress that, where you are listening to the term 'private initiative', you are suffering from something. The triviality that comes recently appeared with the alalum in VAT on private education. Wake up while it's still time. How do you proceed with improving public administration through e-government in justice, hospitals? You are all words, since you do not have the political courage to move on to the new and modern. We regret to note that in Greece of 2015 we have not yet been removed from the nipples of the past, the misery. The percentage of expenditure on research and development as a percentage of GDP in our country was only 0.83% in 2014. Greece, with 0.83%, is in the 20th place between the twenty-eight countries of the European Union, another sad position among the others I have mentioned. If you do not create farmable soil for businesses and private initiative, you will see neither growth nor healthy insurance funds. Even the indirect taxes you estimate will be collected in the 2016 budget, seem as refreshing as your programming promises of growth since the first quarter of 2016. According to data from a pan-European survey by the European Commission, of the 100 euros of VAT that should be collected, in the end, only EUR 65 is entered in the state funds. It is estimated that the loss of revenue exceeds EUR 6.5 billion annually. Why is this lack of revenue? Is it because the Greek businessman is a 'lucky' and evade taxes, even on indirect taxes? Of course not. This delay in the collection of indirect taxation occurs because the professional worker is forced to use VAT, which he was going to pay for the sake of survival. He prefers to leave VAT and the insurance fund unpaid, so that he can visit the supermarket and obtain the necessary resources for the survival of himself and his family. No matter how much you increase your control, no matter how much more employees you place in the Economic Crime Corps, the private trader will prefer to feed you, rather than pay you the VAT. You have created him, because of ideology and incompetence, unsurpassed obstacles to his daily living. It will not consider either the threats of its insurance fund or the threats of the employees of the ILO. You are talking about strengthening the role of the internal control units of the ministries. Who are you kidding? You've got your employees unprotected, allegiance to interact. The staff in existence have outdated technological tools and are largely untrained and young employees are inexperienced and afraid. While you think you are building a healthy economy, within the unsurpassed recession, countries such as Poland, are going on in the third quarter of 2015 at growth rates of more than 3.5%. Countries such as Turkey are negotiating their entry into the European Union, when you are doing your best to find ourselves outside the euro area and the European Union. Resign from this fragile and inefficient government. Create conditions for wider consensus, in a substantial and unpretentious manner. Proceed to the establishment of a global government by subjugation of technocrats. Give substantial power to people who know from private economy and markets, to people who love Europe and share the values of the free productive economy. The experiments are enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and two teachers attending the 6th Petroupoli High School (b) section. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Vettas has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, while listening to some of the positions of important anti-population officials, I have to say that I am convinced that the publication of their memos at some point will not be very successful at any time. What makes me particularly surprised by hearing young children coming from political spaces who were not the first two-partisan ones, is that they do not see any important elements in this budget. This is unpleasant for me. I have heard the previous speaker speak not at all about the new management of the ESRB, the fact that there are no more intermediaries in this ESRB, the fact that he is distributed, if you like, to smaller, medium-sized and small projects that will go to pockets, not to a few large ones, but to his own people, to his colleagues, to his colleagues. Not accepting it as a positive element, I think it is Paleolithic. You know that the new is not always age-defined. The new is defined by what your society needs and what you can serve society today. Because I heard this great need, which some have to get into the universal government, I think at some point they should wake up from the lethargy they are in. Ladies and gentlemen, we have entered the second day of debate in plenary on the state budget of 2016. I have to say what I have said to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, that is, let us be a little crowded, let us be a little wise and sound in our statements. Of course, I don't have much to do, because I see that since yesterday the festival began with the statements of the Opposition. We closed the banks once, now we've sold them out. Once it was necessary to recapitalise, during their governances, using 40 billion dollars, which flew into the bucket, without even touching the issue of red loans, today is a bad recapitalisation of SYRIZA, which largely settles red loans. This new political formation, SYRIZA and the new Prime Minister of the country, has arrived. Okay, I don't have what to say. People are judging. We are at least happy that we are discussing a budget today, which does not have as a basic structural component the primary surpluses of 3% and 4.5% of GDP for 2015 and for 2016, and that is very important to us. It is important to us that it is our budget, which has elements, numbers, various things that people, as I said, do not easily understand, but are elements which concern it directly and will define tomorrow's life. So in this budget, ladies and gentlemen, we are trying to match needs and opportunities with a reality. We are presenting our intentions here, we quote our government proposal - and we are not discussing this - and we are tabling a budget which has a twofold realism, a realism of economic policy, because, as I have said, if anyone looks at it from the side of the data and on the side of the results expected, it will see that it is a simple, serious budget without deficits. That's what society needs today. This budget has a morality, and this is very important, because if anyone looks at the priority and the hierarchy of the needs that this budget is coming to serve, I think they will see it clearly. Because, in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, I have generally spoken about the budget, I do not want to repeat the same thing here. I will just say two, three words about two very important areas, which we must take into account in our minds that we are talking about the development of the economy. The first sector is the 2014-2020 programming period of the ESRB, and of course, the completion of the previous one. The second area is the actions of our government, the SYRIZA Government to strengthen employment, employment and by extension the reduction of unemployment, this major problem. Let's talk a little historically about the ESRB. In January 2015, when we took over the government, the new 2014-2020 programme was only typically ready. There were too many things we had to complete. So we quickly activated sectoral and regional programmes and their governance institutions and promoted the selection criteria and the management control system. So from the point of view of preparing the programme for implementation, I think we did what we had to do very quickly. Although we were accused of doing absolutely nothing, we prepared it and this program is about to run and start running. What is our difference now with previous governments? What does the world have to gain from us? Where do we differ from others in the management of the ESDP? Our aim and purpose of society and the economy - not of SYRIZA alone - is to change both the direction and the nature of the programmes. And this time we'll all agree that the money shouldn't go, it can't go, and they won't go into a few big pockets. That's what happened. So the money's going where it's going. We need to show programmes with different features, knowing on the one hand, and the mistakes we have made in the past. I don't always talk about bad intentions. There's also mistakes. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] So we are aware of the mistakes of the previous governments. I'm not just talking about the bad intentions they had. We are, however, talking, of course, about the bad intentions - and about the fountains, the nests that were created and the customer relations and the other problems. What exactly did we inherit from the previous ESDP and previous governments? We inherited an overlinked NSRP of 2007-2013, with 6 billion overcompensation. You heard me! Everything that fell in front of you put it in, everything you wanted to help you put it inside, whoever came to your door made it money, you did it - unworked, practically - and put it in. So, in the face of us this very serious deadlock, because we are talking about the only important financial pillar in the country today - unfortunately, it is - to clear it up and deal with its sustainable solution. The response from the operational programmes therefore relates to a thousand four hundred projects, eighty-five of which have been transferred to programmes in the new period, where a total of two hundred seventy-fifths of the budget of 877 million will be transferred. These are projects which have mainly not made much progress, but there are those whose first phase has been completed and in the new ESDP the second phase will be joined by committing more than 3.5 billion. Since, therefore, our aim should not be to commit all the resources of the new programming period, some projects must be fully endowed, but also those of course must be completed, so that we do not have to return resources to the European Union. So by 2017 we must make use of all other financial resources outside the ESDP. It is true, then, and we will, I believe, all of us, agree that major infrastructure projects, however pharaonic they were, as much as they were in the wrong times as they were, must end once and for all. We are therefore assessing the importance of projects and we are not simply rejecting projects. But we need to be careful, as I have told you, that the money is no longer in the pockets of a few and that the ESDP is finally the dominant tool in the national strategy, in the development of our economy and society. Therefore, the aim of the new ESDP is to transfer significant amounts and several available resources, their important part, to free professionals, to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which will create sustainable and stable jobs and spend money on the domestic market, of course, rejuvenating demand and economy by extension. As I told you, it was very sad for me when I heard the previous speaker - and I saw his age - not to discover in this ERC the major changes that the ERC itself needs, the major changes that the previous governments did not make, the major changes that the Greek economy needs. Because I told you this was the only financial instrument in the Greek economy at the moment. I heard a few more members of the opposition talking about tax evasion, black money. Do you not recognise, ladies and gentlemen, that lists abroad that have, in so far as they are, not all - black money, been financed by the ESRB? Blacklists, black money, whatever this black money - I do not know, I do not know exactly - were not financed by the NSRF, by this large cord of European money and European programmes? So what we want to develop and want, not just because we want to do it, but I think we need to do it, because they are areas with particular extroversion, innovation and high added value - differentity in the product we say otherwise, because sometimes words hide not the reality, but also the essence - they are clearly the agri-food sector, information and communication technologies, logistics, the materials industry, the environmental industry and tourism. With regard to tourism, I will mention the invitation to some seven hundred potentially benefiting small and micro-enterprises for actions to upgrade their tourist infrastructure, accommodation and so on. I'm going to pass some evidence, 'cause I don't think it's necessary. So the big question I raised before, is exactly what a young man has to expect today from the ESDP and what exactly he has to expect from the economy itself. And, obviously, it's not just money to raise a economy and reduce unemployment. It is not just a matter of quantity, but it is also a matter of serious qualitative changes and qualitative choices. Questions are relentless today and need important time not only to be answered, but mainly to be resolved in substance and reality. Can the size of the Greek company, as it is designed, withstand international competition? Are these two - on average, three employees per company? We'll all agree that we don't. Is it simply enough to increase production or create products with great diversity, with high value added, as we say? Clearly, yes. It is now - why all of us are living here and we must speak truths here - the aim of the Greek businessman, who will be the investor using the ESDP tool, just the easy profit and the fast cycle, without creating a sustainable income? I think - and here I must say - that, apart from the tools that you must provide to a businessman, an investor who will use the NSRP - that is, the state that provides its instruments - beyond the funding instruments that credit and other institutions will provide him with, but also a serious knowhow which will provide him with our scientific, educational institutions, here to be honest and to clarify things and not to say what they have been saying for so many years, the Greek businessman must show his diversity. He must stand up to the circumstances. He must be serious. Because sometimes, you know, we justify the businessman easily, without actually showing him what the problems are and what he should do. You know, European money is our money and we must make the best use of it. It is not given to some for easy profit and should not be given. So, in order to solve the unemployment issue through the programmes, we need to go beyond quantitative reforms and beyond quantitative facilities, I would say, to make serious qualitative changes. As I said, then, it is not just the NRP. We need serious national resources, so that we can strengthen this effort and strengthen and create an enlarged regional and national public investment project. This objective, of course, is to achieve, as I have said, a great deal of time is needed, which is why I believe that there is no need for too many words, but little and stable changes, which will take place not on a stable basis, but on a basis of truthful reality and rapid results. So we need a broadening of the tax base. The next tax bill should be such a bill as to broaden the basis and be fair. Of course, we also need a better sharing of expenditure. So the question of growth rests on a huge set of requirements and conditions, which should be the case. Debt regulation, recapitalisation of banks, return of deposits, creation of funding tools, assistance in organising, integrating technologies and innovation, production of diverse products are issues relating to development itself. If you take one of these out, there can be no growth. It is therefore a difficult matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Because I see that time has come to an end, I will talk about the second area of government policy, which I consider to be very important. I will be very brief, Mr President. It is the parallel programme in employment and the social economy. I hope the Opposition doesn't get confused again with the parallel program. The first section includes actions aimed at reducing unemployment and helping unemployed people from specific groups: young people and over fifty-five years. Here too, we need to know that the serious structural problem of unemployment today is long-term unemployment, especially those who are close to or almost close to retirement and cannot have a job. Here, then, are actions relating to low-qualified unemployed. We have managed all these years in this country to specialize in people who in the end had absolutely no specialty. And, of course, to help groups of people who have the highest unemployment rates. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I won't mention the actions. It is about fifteen actions that touch the EUR 482 million. These actions help about a hundred and twelve thousand beneficiaries. The second action supports unemployed people who have lost their jobs because their businesses have closed down. Here there is a funding for the Globalisation Fund, which supports about three thousand five hundred employees from companies that have been closed, and a thousand fifty-five young people outside employment, a budget of 48 million. The second section includes institutional measures and the synergy of several ministries, where we need to resolve issues of an institutional framework for continuing vocational training and the certification of people who acquire skills. The third section includes very important interventions in the new sector of our economy, the social economy, which, of course, needs to be upgraded, reform cooperative legislation - something that has not happened all the years - to create regional support offices for the social economy and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we are going to have another budget. We will draw up and table other budgets as government. This budget is a budget for turning, changing a path completely different from what the world has known so far, a difficult budget. We also have the responsibility for what we are taking, but of course we also have the honour, because the world has chosen us to rule this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u92	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u93	I will close the way I have closed down in committee. Fortunately, though, some may account for delays and errors. Of course, however, no one can count on this government to have purposes, to trade and to do so for a number of reasons. I believe that this budget will be a better budget, which will be worth both Greek citizens and their sacrifices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u94	The next speaker is the special rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mrs Anna-Michel Asmakopoulou, whom I call on the Step. Until he stands up, although I am sure that my colleague Mr Mandash has responded to my appeal and did what I had to say, I would like to say that there is not so far - and please, Mr Mandha, look at it - no information as to how many ministers will speak. I want to make it clear that when I'm in the Bureau and I get a block of six Ministers to forget that six ministers will talk all the time. Five colleagues will speak and one minister will speak. I've made it clear from now, so I don't have any indebtedness with them, tomorrow, tomorrow and Saturday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u95	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u96	Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my introduction today in the words of today's Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, in last year's speech in plenary on the 2015 budget. So Mr Tsipras said: "When you vote against a budget, this vote is a top act of the parliamentary process. When you vote against a budget, you are basically asking for the immediate resignation of the government. The budget shall be equivalent to a vote of confidence.’ I am tabling this for the Minutes, because I will refer to it several times. It's Mr. Tsipras' speech from last year. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I shall say, of course, that I agree with Mr Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget by nature has a time-lag, that is to say, you are talking about the past and what has happened, you are making some kind of illustrating the present and, of course, you are also making forecasts for the future. This involves comparisons, contains assumptions and includes forecasts. So these dimensions of the debate, namely the past, the present, the future, comparisons, assumptions and forecasts are accompanied by a political tripartite, which I think is why it is a top parliamentary act and is a vote of confidence, as Mr Tsipras said. This tripartite is "reliability, responsibility and hope". I think that this is the basis of the crisis and of the one government, but also of the political staff in general, and if you like the way in which people, when they come to the poll, judge and make their choices, do they look at the credibility: does the man who speaks to me tell me the truth? They look at the responsibility: Will he do what I have promised? And, of course, they want hope. They want to know if what they promise will touch their lives, they'll get better. I would therefore like to examine the 2016 budget in my report through this tripartite:'reliability, responsibility, hope'. I'm starting with credibility. My colleagues from New Democracy, the rapporteur-general, the former Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Stagioras, my colleagues, special speakers, Mr Karaoglou and Mr Economou have given us a full picture, with a different emphasis on the main figures for 2016 and 2015, of course also a comparison with 2014, as reflected in the draft budget report. As Mr Stakoras quite rightly said, this comparison highlights the greedy unreliability of the Radical Left. The country returns to the recession, budgetary deficits and the increase in public debt. This year's budget includes additional measures, it includes taxes, it includes pension cuts, it includes all those that lead in 2016 to be worse than in 2015 and 2015, of course, to be much worse than in 2014. The special speaker of the SYRIZA can tell us that it is a success that the banks have closed and had capital control, because the negative consequences for the economy have declined quickly, he can tell us that the recapitalised banks that are recapitalised, left behind and for a piece of bread they get the foreign funds, like the one of Saros, are a success. Now it tells us that it is a success that the budget has no primary surpluses, it has deficits. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 1.5 billion additional and painful measures, with the social budget sinking to deficits, with a view to reaching EUR 2.1 billion in 2016 on a cash basis, public debts to private individuals approaching 6 billion euros, increased by 60%, additional measures of 5.7 billion in 2015 and 2016 and we are seeing them. Main and subsidiary pensions and single cut. The beneficiaries of the EAFRD are reduced, OGA's contributions are increased and the heating allowance is cut to half. This, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of the'second time left' is called a cost cut. The public debt is increasing nine units compared to 2014 and reaches a GDP rate of 188% in 2016. I ask directly, ladies and gentlemen: is the current economic reality of the Tsipras - Kammenos Government or is it not the worst thing than last year's reality? Is that what 2016 is planned to exist or is it not worse, too? This says the preliminary draft budget you brought us today, Minister, and the first budget of the "second time left" shows the credibility of the previous government, the successful financial adjustment that had been made, the containment of expenditure, the targeted reduction in tax burdens. I note that only one day after the budget was voted on by the government MPs in the committee, what happens? All the assumptions on which the budget was based have been reviewed worse. Specifically - for the Minutes - "the quarterly national accounts for the third quarter of 2015 indicate that on the basis of seasonally corrected figures GDP decreased by 1.1% over the third quarter of 2014, compared with the initial estimate in November 13, for a drop of 0.4% and for the second quarter GDP decreased by 0.9% compared to 0.5%, which was the first estimate". [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What does that mean in simple words, ladies and gentlemen, for people to understand us? You've already fallen out on the budget. Is that what we're interested in? Why do I want to criticize you that you are not good economists? Oh, no. We are interested, because that means additional measures. Additional measures means if you fall out on the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the Samara government had achieved five things: firstly, primary surpluses one year earlier than forecasts; secondly, to continue the primary surpluses again above forecasts; thirdly, to zero the overall deficit; fourthly, to go out on the markets two years earlier and, fifthly, to go to recovery after six years of recession and complete the programme to go to the next day and a half a year before forecasts. We were there and went to a time when we would also respect the budgetary targets and go ahead with the reforms, particularly those that have taken place everywhere in the world and promote competitiveness and reforms not in recession, but in conditions of growth. This is the big difference, because this allows you to move gradually and housed in tax relief measures. When you grow firmly, you can make tax cuts without having budgetary matters. But when you're in recession, what's going on? You fall again and again into austerity. What I just told you, Mr Samaras was saying in his speech last year. He was talking about what you today in the rapporteur's budget report admits. At least you're referring to this. I am also presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Because, in fact, I am telling you of the credibility of the comparison, to see what Mr Tsipras said in the budget debate on this subject. He said: 'The budget is a photograph of the memorandum'. He blamed us for the fact that, if we apply the Memorandum of Understanding, there is even tougher policy than the one we live in today. There is a levelling of the insurance, divestment of any public property left, new prerequisites, said Mr. Tsipras. To sum up, I say that what Mr Tsipras said is that we are going to bring them today. There they are! Bring in worse than Mr. Tsipras had imagined. You've exceeded your imagination. We are also talking about measures which we, in a tough negotiation, had avoided. Mr Tsipras then asked Mr Samaras: 'Do you think we are interested in our fellow citizens who will shortly be retiring if you will cut their pensions or reduce their pensions with a memorandum or credit line? Do you think people care about whether you will abolish VAT deduction on the islands with an extension of one or six months of the memorandum?’ That's what Mr. Tsipras said. I ask you, one year later, directly, ladies and gentlemen, this: Now that you have raised the VAT everywhere and have abolished the discount on the islands, now that you have agreed to cut the pensions of EUR 3.2 billion with unknown 'urban', which could reach EUR 4 billion - which in December 2014 was inappropriate, as you say on page 59 and the insurance funds in 2014 had a surplus of EUR 697 million, while in 2015 there is a deficit of EUR 1,2 billion and in 2016 EUR 1,1 billion, you say in the budget - so do you believe, ladies and gentlemen, that they do not now care about our fellow citizens? Why don't they care? They don't care, because this is what the Radical Left and Mr. Tsipras do and Mr. Samaras doesn't do? Isn't that why they care? Are you asking for a consensus from us? Are you asking for a consensus on what you have already consented to, which you have signed, which you have voted on in the Committee on Economic Affairs and will you vote again today? However, the answer has been given by Mr Tsipras and I fully agree with him. Mr Tsipras said: 'He does not care about the game with words'. I'm telling you. That's what he said. You know, 'troika','minds', 'quartet', this is the game with words. "He cares about the game you do with his life." That's what he said. Today, what do we see? We see the cost, the size of the damage suffered by the Greek people by the populism of Mr. Tsipras, who took advantage of the pain and sacrifices of the Greeks and, secondly, we see the size of your political unreliability. Ladies and gentlemen, after you played with the life of the world, after you told him that you were going to tear the memorandum and that you would give him the thirteenth pension - I'm leaving them, because you're saying that this was Genarris, we're going to forget about it, but I'm a little back on it - we're going back to Grexit not to go to Grexit. We wanted you to assume your responsibilities. The people have voted for you again and have given you a mandate indeed to implement the new memorandum and the parallel programme to which I shall not refer. So we've come this far. And while your unreliability has turned out to be so perceptive, no reason to assume your responsibilities. Your responsibilities should be borne on the basis of pages 21 and 22 of the budget. You should take them on the basis of the European Commission's report 'Autumn economic forecasts'. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You should undertake them on the basis of the report by the European Central Bank: 'Financial Stability Review', which I also submit for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] These have similar figures to the budget and provide for a return to recession and deficits. I don't expect that from you, of course. So let us look at the next one, namely hope. You said "development comes", "investment comes". Aren't you telling the world, ladies and gentlemen? Let's see, in relation to the budget, where growth is supposed to come from. On page 44, Chapter 2, paragraph 9, it states: ‘(1) from structural reforms’. There is a list of reforms on the next page entitled 'Development and Competitiveness'. Yes, that is what they refer mainly to in the Public Investment Programme and the NSRF. So let's see the first left budget, where we have some interesting elements. In Table 316 on page 89, there is a timely evolution of the absorption rate of the EDF resources. The absorption rate for 2011 was 31.5%, while 2014 was 87.9%. It is very interesting, ladies and gentlemen, that you tell us about your intentions for the ESDP and how you want to share it fairly or that you want to help young entrepreneurs. Of course, but in politics you are judged by the result. So let's see the absorption rate of the NRP and discuss where it went for your days, because we haven't seen this yet. Yes, please, please, the preaching to Greek businessmen that they need to be better. When did you care about the private sector and the Greek businessmen, who will be preaching to them now? So nothing SYRIZA did to help the investments. Oh, yeah, he did the Capital Controls, closed the banks. This is not exactly an excellent climate to attract investment. On the contrary, investments are tending to become a kind of disappearance. For the record, that's not all I'm saying. They call it international houses. I am tabling the state budget implementation report for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So let's see what else you said you were going to do for development. Oh, yes, privatizations! It is found on page 14, chapter 5. That's your target. You have here 1.8 billion euros of revenues from the Greek, airports, DESFA, the marinas. I have another question here. Will this be possible for you, ladies and gentlemen? I would remind you that Mr. Tsipras was electorally saying that it is a sale. And Mr. Spirtzis in an interview in 2015 said you'd cry by privatising, because it's a model you don't believe. I'm figuring out the documents with the two reports for the minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So do you believe it or don't you believe it? Will you do it or won't you? That is the question of demilitarisation. Unfortunately, the forecasts for investment are that it will be reduced by 10.2% by the European Commission in 2016. Let's go get a few investments in 2017! That's what the others say. What do you think? Do you want to or don't you want to do them? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that last year Mr Samaras called on you to vote on the 2015 budget, the first balanced budget for decades, immediately after going to the election of the President of the Republic, to the Constitutional Review and to get out of this story, from this stagnation. He was asking you to put your back on. You, of course, took us to elections. All this is well known. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. As you always remind us today, you have a fresh people's mandate. There is no question of that, ladies and gentlemen. I told you before. But you too cannot question the evidence you have submitted to the state budget, which does not allow any questioning of the extent of the catastrophe that has occurred in the Greek economy since you took over the country's governance. You do not represent the tripartite:'reliability - responsibility - hope'. You have brought lies, irresponsibility and destruction. I conclude with the words of Prime Minister Tsipras on the consensus from his speech last year: "I wonder what exactly you are asking for. To consent to the country accepting everything that the lenders ask? To consent to the new wage and pension cuts? We are not going to consent to new measures.' Would you like a response to the consensus? Mr. Tsipras gave it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u98	We are arriving at the last special rapporteur, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, who please come to Stepma. I recognizing the eight colleagues who are alternate, one of each party, to hear their names and be in the Chamber. In turn are Mr. Famelos, Vlachos, Lagos, Theocharopoulos, Katsotis, Fotillas, Zouraris and Saridis. With Mr Papadopoulos' fifteen minutes at 14.00 hours, we are about to start the roll-call vote. At 3 p.m. we must be done, so that we can have a lot of time to talk by 12 o'clock at night. I've made a programming. If we stick to time - with a slight tolerance to Members from one minute - all Members will speak by Saturday. Just don't let the ministers ruin it! Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. This is the preliminary draft of SYRIZA's parallel government program, which was drawn up, delivered in this form by the working group in April 2014 as the government program of SYRIZA: "Reconstruction and democratic transformation of Greece". Its final version was issued in August 2014 and has been updated since then. We won't be presenting it to you today, don't be afraid. We will have the opportunity to draw up the country's national development plan, which must be delivered in March 2016, to have a very serious debate both in committees and in plenary and, of course, with self-government, with society, with its institutions, about exactly what the national development plan should be. The 2016 state budget, ladies and gentlemen, is the budget of a government that took over the titaniumic task of reconstruction of the country after a long destructive course, which began long before 2010. It is essentially balanced and realistic, at the same time revealing its class grouping in favour of the weak. It is based on conservative estimates of the proceeds of the stolen return, on the lists of outraged tax evasion and corruption - not only concerning the Lagard list, it is also the recent lists that have come to the surface, which have been delivered by the Rhine-Westphalia tax authority, and we have a lot of work to do - together with the Luxembourg list, the Maldives and many others. Because all the issues that concern us are how to obtain revenue from all those sources and the receipt of value added tax, the use of public property, the fight against smuggling and many others, are issues that we take into account in the budget. However, the budget does not translate to expenditure, nor to what we expect, nor to the expected positive outcome of the first assessment of the new agreement with the European Support Facility, the successful management of the recapitalisation of banks with just ECU 5.7 billion. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty. It does not cause increased spending, expecting the development result from the old and the new NSRF, as well as the funding of Greece from the European Union's Structural Funds, in particular, from the legitimate expectation of a sustainable solution to the public debt, which has become a clear commitment of our partners in the United Europe, as is seen from the recent statements by Declan Costello or Klaus Regling on a partial relief of the Greek debt. The realization of the estimates, however, allows optimism for the recovery of the Greek economy and the promotion of radical structural reforms, which aim mainly at the disappearance of the causes of the explosive deficits, overcompensation, unaltered borrowing. The budget is the result of concentrated know-how. It contains targeted and not horizontal cuts, it reflects the guarantee of a significant financial area, it describes developments in the international economic environment and it will create more favourable conditions for the national social inclusion strategy and the exercise of social justice policy, alleviating inequalities, as the evidence from our financial staff advances that we now have acts rather than theory in all these matters. The government's specific priorities for budget expenditure for next year dominated budgetary equilibrium and consolidation, the development perspective, as well as: Firstly, the implementation of actions to combat the humanitarian crisis and the protection of vulnerable social groups in extreme poverty. The health card of uninsured persons will be issued, the gradual implementation as of 1 April 2016 of the minimum guaranteed income programme at national level, the unemployment card, the continued heating, housing, feeding and much more. Secondly, the implementation of the important changes, which are already made by a draft law by the Ministry of Health, which has been completed and which is being used to include its crucial provisions on a government legislative initiative with urgency. The health provisions will be discussed by the Minister for Health. I won't tire you. These can institutionalise the universal health coverage of the population, interventions to support and upgrade the public health system, which refers to tragic conditions of functional collapse from the abandonment to which the previous Memorandum governments have delivered it. "It closes the Preveza Hospital," Mr. Economou told us. Just, Mr. Economou? Or is the explosive problems of Nafplio Hospital or Drama or ours, the Trikala, where the pediatric clinic is not working for fifteen days a month - is it not able to report because of subscribing - and with a single doctor is the ophthalmic clinic, the urology, the ORL, the results of this governance? I am referring to the explosive problems that exist in the health structures throughout the country, which we want - and we shall put it to the vote - we will resolve with the interventions we have made to speed up the recruitment process that had been zeroed, to flexibility in meeting the needs of the ICM, for the operation of the ready-to-eat General Hospital of Thera. These arrangements are made in parallel with those proposed by the Ministry of Health as amendments to the draft law on grazing land, which we have discussed and which have interventions and extensions of personnel moved, as well as of the subsidiary doctors, for a three-year term in units, cover for additional on-call coverage, incentives to fill positions in difficult, aggression, regional medical centres and health centres in the islands that serve and difficult local needs, as well as tourism and the refugee wave. The remaining provisions of the Ministry of Health's draft law will be used to promote a flagship change in health, including the organisation of a primary health system with a multidisciplinary team and family doctors, structures in neighborhoods, reference units, treatment centres for chronic diseases, drug interventions as a public good, the radical restructuring of the system of hospitals, health regions, to serve health as a fundamental human right and social good. Because these are the qualifications we want from the new governors who will serve the health system. And the criteria will be given with absolute transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, by studying all the data in the 2016 budget, we can see that the government's objectives for the extension of programmes of significant social interest and the launch of a bold humanist health reform, after the radicals - say it - areas of the founding law on the National Health System, n. Regulation (EEC) No 1397/83 may be supported by the following: Firstly, the increase in the social budget by EUR 823 million - Mr Scandalidis, who is not here, tragedy has told her the intervention of our social budget - especially in terms of transfer payments which finance the adequacy of the system of on-care and overtime in the ERC, the response of the humanitarian crisis, the ESS, the over-calls of extreme poverty, the relaunching of the funding of the state's maturities, with the aim of significantly reducing them by the end of 2016 and with the priority of health, welfare, social security, debts to the EEAS 1.682, 1,214 000 in hospitals, EUR 2,696 000 in debts to the social security agencies in September, the increase in the grant of hospitals. I will not tell you any more figures because the previous Members have said so. I am also saying: EUR 12 million for projects financed by national funds and EUR 20 million for projects co-financed. The full coverage of the planned recruitments to hospitals of permanent and subsidiary staff. The review of the EEAS’ need for entrustment to private providers per region if the EEAS data confirm that the performance assessment will allow for the movement of funds towards public structures. The infiltration of generics. The creation of a national warehouse and much more. Furthermore, developing an effective European policy to defend the rights of European citizens to health, from prevention and emergency care to rehabilitation, with brave funding of measures to reduce morbidity, upgrade public health, global vaccination, policies for all social, cultural, epidemiological factors affecting health and disease. It is therefore clear that the 2016 budget, although not in line with the specifications of a visionary Left budget, is not our choice, Mr Economou and fellow Members of the Com mission, who wonder why a left-handed programme includes tough measures. It is the consequence of the forty-eight prerequisites for lenders, which concerns all the parties which adopted the Nineteen Eurozone Leaders' Agreement on 13 July, but it can respond to the government's priorities for social justice, left footprint on its choices, of course, in the data that has been drawn up. It requires, however, the overall success of the government's development policy and parallel governmental programme, the relaunching and recovery of the economy, a more attractive entrepreneurial environment, the expansion of collaborative logic, the encouragement of investment, the stimulation of employment, especially of young people with a lot of qualifications. With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, I think that, despite the failure of a forward-looking agreement at the meeting of the political leaders on the refugee issue, on the sustainability of the socio-security system, even on the simple proportional, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, as a permanent electoral system of the country, which imposes wider scheduling for governmental convergences to be stable, the question we are now discussing - to be aware - is not to constantly recycle the vicious cycle with the unacceptable party argument'so we do because you have in the past'. Let the big debate on the national development plan begin at least in time, as part of the maturement of the political system, which states that Greece wants to remain in the United Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] At the same time, those of you, ladies and gentlemen, proclaiming that you are in favour of reliable programme cooperation without obsessed with your own unreliable truths, those of you who exploring the Portuguese project as an alternative to the right-wing government convergence and left-wing governance - in their programme, are incomplete, and a regulation which assumes the responsibility that wages and pensions will be replaced in line with the course to be upgraded by their national economy, and I think that we also need to adopt it - we are calling on you to vote on it. We obviously do not expect him to be voted for by those who cry for statements of repentance from a government that has undertaken to take Greece out of the moor, those who demand universal or technocratic government -'soup', so without a programme, or with the Chicago school programme. I do not see any of the Central Association colleagues. We were analyzed yesterday, what? Milton Friedman's program? Is that what they suggest we adopt? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Vorides also asked for this government to resign to take over the neoliberal and interdependent political staff who overcrowded and plundered the country. Here, then, is a field of glorification of promotional understanding on the major radical reforms, on the social security system, on the tax system, on the public administration, on the productive model, on all those who want convergence on a specific programming framework, which can build a wider alternative progressive governance of the country. However, we, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, are also voting on a difficult budget with social sensitivity, in adverse conditions, and we are contributing to an attractive model of power in Greece and Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u100	We're entering the first circle of speakers. The first three are Mr. Socrates Famelos, who comes to Stepma, Mr. George Vlachos and Mr. Ioannis Lagos. You have the floor, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget will be our country's exit vehicle from the crisis. Of course, in order to be honest, this will be done in conjunction with a firm reconstruction programme which my colleague, Mr Papadopoulos, just now, has presented or rather has made it clear that we are preparing. This change, along with the ministries' operational and organisational capacity, requires, however, political correlations, links to society, links to Europe, because this course and negotiation will be constant and difficult, but also because the external and internal correlation of forces will judge the final result. The main criteria for the drafting of the 2016 budget are realism, transparency, social justice and redistribution, which is why it is based on three pillars: the budgetary balance, so that our country is not constantly undermining the pressures of borrowing, the interruption of the current momentum and the strengthening of the social budget. For a Eurozone country, however, and in particular a country in a financial aid contract with it, the European environment is useful and restrictive. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not read the European economy through the provincialisation of the rest of the opposition parties. Because other parties either because of shallowness or because of a lack of ideological identity, reproduce the blindman of the neoliberal decision-makers and say "do it as strangers tell you", while others consciously choose these policies, because they very simply hide the interests they have served so far behind these policies. But both are harmful to the country and its people. The European Union and the euro area have very serious problems to solve. There are serious problems in European architecture but also in the logic and functioning of the euro, because so far the euro has not succeeded in economic integration in Europe, which is completely different from monetary, and there are serious problems of recession and unemployment in the countries of Northern Europe, because the euro is still a tool to enrich some countries in Europe towards others. Unfortunately, economicism and the adoration of numbers performance, stock and banking ties have created serious problems both in policy reading and in planning. The concentration of capital in Europe, but basically the devaluation of democracy, the devaluation of people, the values born in Europe, has led to the prevalence of unfair neoliberal policies and basic extremes in many countries, who, in order to confirm and continue their domination, lead to ever more harsh measures, because this directorate has the need to remain in leadership, because that is the only way that can serve the interests that led to Europe's power. In other words, the strictness of policy, the impoverishment of social masses can give them material to live, to live politically, to keep their chairs, and ignore Europe's social experience and at the same time open up the way to neo-nazis, people who forget democracy, oppress the citizen, lose the value of human life. We are all very concerned about this, ladies and gentlemen. We have opened up a great debate in Europe on all these issues, a debate from which, of course, the opposition parties are absent and have nothing to propose to that. Unfortunately, the forecasts for 10% of unemployment in the Eurozone are very concerned and this deterioration in Europe is being debated very much in the European institutions. It's not something that SYRIZA puts on. However, SYRIZA gave an identity to this debate in Europe. In the Greek problem, however, the complexity and dependency - if you like - of ineffective and viable economic units by the state, by commissions, the reproduction of a model of corruption and interactivity, which maintains the old political system, have created a rosphetological and slow-moving public, a non-productive economy, a society without a culture of labour strengthening, and certainly an economy and a society without entrepreneurial culture, particularly in the part of the social economy and the cooperative. To ensure this power of course, they had also built a grid of dependencies, a wall in which many times and now we need to collide, so that we can change the flow of the Greek economy. They had practically created defences against the political change that came with SYRIZA and the social demands that were made through the social spaces. And this grid was used in the country's negotiation. The country was blackmailed both internally and abroad to give in to these immoral, anti-human policies, if you like. However, the citizens have chosen to stand up. They have chosen a political and social change. And this change is clear in Greece and cannot easily go back. And practically the deficit in their policy is seen. We see it in the weak democratic lives of the opposition parties, in the reproduction of personal attacks, without a word about the country's political situation, without any scenario coming out of the crisis. That is why the media triggers misinformation and economic extortion. The budget we are debating today reflects the criticalness of the country's situation, but at the same time it shows that there are possibilities for there to be social tools and social indicators in politics and at the same time for an effective protection network to be built up. Because if we follow the underlying course you have chosen in previous years, then practically it is like delivering the country's independence to foreigners and lenders. I was particularly impressed by the reference made by the Special Speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Karaoglu, to the fact that they are not going to agree on policies that create recession. Didn't you get it a little late? Do you forget that in the last five years our country has been having 25% recession with your own governments? In fact, if we put inflation on, this downturn is 33%. We are not interested in the same reason to reduce the recession. We are not happy for the same reason, because we will reach 0% of GDP this year. We are pleased that this gives a budget of EUR 500,000 000 for social policies and that it strengthens social redistribution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The hope for a different policy arises from the work of both these months and from the previous six-month government. Because that is how we manage to create surpluses so that we can give the over-age insurers the benefit again. In practice, this is how we do social and weak masses again. And we literally welcome Mr Stakoura to the left-wing slogan in favour of patients and working social classes. Mr Stavura, we like you to bow to the values of the Left! We like the fact that the values of law are now dominated by Greek society. But tell me: Did you believe in these values when you defended the 'SIEMENS' scandal? Do you believe in these values when you were practically covering the Post Bank, the Agricultural Bank, the armaments scandals, the structured bonds? Because all this was done by your own children! So where is the benefit of the social classes? Even if you tried to memorize with the legal choices of the Samara government - Venizelos, the people responsible for the seashore, it is time for you to ask the Greek people for responsibility. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I really wonder how, in 2015, North Rhine-Westphalia's Finance Minister confirmed that he did not find any resonance on previous governments to deliver the lists. In 2012, in bilateral work on tax evasion at the meeting in Switzerland, Greek officials did not agree to take the lists from Swiss banks. Mr. Tomsen said the same in 2014. There is a refusal to intervene against tax evasion. Throughout this case, unfortunately, officials from the previous government are involved with a specific post in the staff. Our demand, the people's demand is that this budget should be combined with a large generalised clearance of the system of interactivity and corruption. That is what the Prime Minister announced yesterday. As long as publishing interests are pressing, we will feel stronger in our responsibility, with a social programme in this budget, by strengthening the Public Investment Programme, by reducing the functioning of the State, with greater revenue from tax evasion. It is a challenge that we are addressing throughout society and in opposition. Over your party dead ends. The country calls us for an important responsibility. We've taken care of it. What are you going to do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u102	Mr Georgios Vlachos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the reference made by the special speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Papadopoulos, to the famous programme and to respond with a quote from last year's speech by your President, Mr Tsipras, in this debate, namely the budget. Mr Tsipras said at that time: 'You keep saying that there is no alternative'. Last September there was an announcement of the SYRIZA programme, which, in our assessment, is a turning point for the political life of the country, because we presented a realistic, effective and cost-effective plan. Not what we want to do, but what we can do in conditions of budgetary equilibrium. We do not claim new deficits, we do not want new loans. This, Mr Papadopoulos, is the best answer to the report you have made. As for the colleague who just came down from the Step and mentioned the sensitivities of the Left, I would like to say that he has to end this monopoly and this fairy tale. Because, you know, I have to remind you that last year the right-wing government gave for the social state about 500,000, 000, while you, the sensitive left, were confined to about 100,000, 000. I think you can't talk. Because, you know, this is the first time that the Left has been judged by its actions and not by the words. And the mirror of this image is the budget we started talking about. The rapporteur's suggestion, Mr Stakoura, was catalytic in revealing the truth about the real picture of the country's economy. The budget figures show that left-wing rhetoric and so-called left-wing social sensitivity are completely empty, as they show in practice the country's return to recession, primary government deficits and the increase of public debt, additional fiscal measures, new taxes, pension cuts and social benefits and that 2016 will be worse than the year that is leaving, which I recall was much worse than 2014. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2014 the country achieved a positive rate of change, the government received an economy in dynamic growth, and the forecast then from the institutions for 2015 mentioned growth of more than 2.5%. The return to the recession only burdens you and your government. So everything shows that the 'first time left' experiment will have huge costs for citizens and a total cost for the country. The recession therefore deepens and was revised toward the worst by ELSTAT, always in relation to initial estimates. The economic climate, the psychology of the citizens and the economy has deteriorated, and even when everyone is talking about an improved economic climate in the Eurozone. Unfortunately, this is the unpleasant climate left-wing administration leaves to Greek society. Left-wing governance, which continues internal payment posture, resulting in the government's overdue obligations towards the private sector increasing. And while in the period 2012-2014 they were down by about 60%, 2015 is increased by about 60%, always compared to the end of 2014. And the worst of all is that there is no payout program. The situation created by the Left, your Government is trying to control it with additional measures, with tax measures, cuts, measures of famine, measures of recession and a dead end to the Greek society. Your policy has therefore been accompanied by an increase in VAT, an increase in the rates of corporate income tax, an increase in the special solidarity levy, an increase in the tax on insurance, an increase in the taxation of rent income, an increase in the one-off payment of income tax, an increase in the advance payment of income tax to legal persons, free trade and farmers, a gradual abolition of the reimbursement of excise duty on oil for agricultural use, an increase in the rates of income tax for farmers. All this strangles the real economy, exacerbates the recession and continues the deadlock. They create desperation among the citizens who see new fronts open every day in their lives, with the largest of the Greek banks, who needed new recapitalisation due to the economic situation created in 2015 by the Left Government. The result of the recapitalisation was extremely unfavourable for the country, despite the avoidance of the deposit haircut and the lower, finally, financial burden. Your manipulations, your regressions, your delays, your ideas added great cost to the public and taxpayers, paid off the previous capital increases and dramatically reduced Greek private participation. They undermined the value of the portfolio of the Financial Stability Fund, led the Greek credit institutions to abstraction, the already approved restructuring plans of credit institutions were more unfavourable, resulting in the loss of significant assets. There are responsibilities, therefore, both for the need for the new recapitalisation of banks and for its outcome. There are responsibilities that need to be linked, and assigned, to the names of all those who have led us to the present situation. Within this political reality, the Prime Minister recently asked the other political forces to join the meeting under the President of the Republic to take part in the responsibilities of his own policy. This initiative has shown that the Prime Minister is still on the basis of communication criteria and not of substance. Consent doesn't mean her because she just doesn't believe her, she never believed her. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] When after the January elections, which we had to return to the relations of the political forces, Mr. Samaras proposed consultation, then Mr. Tsipras answered with great arrogantness: “Who invited you and who asked you to?” When Mr Meimarakis before the September elections reintroduced the matter of national conciliation, he again received a similar answer. Colleagues on the left, now what do you want? Did anyone ask you to rule together? Has anyone asked you to form a universal government? You alone open the topics and you close them and always with the same arrogantness and the same diligence. In any case, however, we have no reason to say what you will do with Mr Leventis, what you will do with the other parties. However, as a New Democracy, we are clearly telling you that we are not concerned with any discussion of what you are trying to open up. You have the declared, you have the majority, finally rule. 'Government' means, of course, I assume my policy's responsibilities. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You want to decide on your own, to create huge political costs with your decisions. And this cost, you then want to share it with the opposition. The Prime Minister's attacks recently in New Democracy show that, despite the temporary problems he faces, the party of Officer Response remains the strong pole of our political system. The New Democracy has a duty to the citizens, not only to those who voted for it, but also to all those who every day look forward to us, to prepare an alternative proposal for the country's governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Vlavo, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u105	The other, the small, the organizational, will soon be overcome and forgotten, because they are simply not interested in society. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy with a sense of responsibility is voting against the anti-developing, economically ineffective and socially unfair, the Left's budget, the budget that leads Greek society to a catastrophic spiral...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Vlavo, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u107	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u108	Yes, but we've gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u109	...the golden left-hand budget of misleading, as our rapporteur said, the budget that conceals the truth and forcing the country to take heavy steps of noticing and sinking at the dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u110	Well, because he's also a colleague of my party and a friend of mine, if the original speakers... I went to try and put eight minutes to all of you instead of six, but I see they weren't kept. After that, I will return to six minutes, with a tolerance that I will now show throughout the first eight so that my friend, Mr Katsotis, will not complain. But not those of us who are first talking and then the rest of us leave them on fire. Well, Mr. John Rabbit has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Lagos, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since he participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Painting. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Pappa, why are you asking for the reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u113	I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u114	On what matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u115	On a point of order, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u116	Here, you have a minute at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u117	Because you are experienced and noble as Vice-President and because this was done this morning by Mrs Christodoulopoulos, I would ask you to announce from which party is the speaker. You are announcing from all parties and not from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u118	Yeah, you're right. So, for the Minutes, Mr. Bunny of Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I will start my speech differently than I calculated, because, before I went to Stepma to talk, I heard SYRIZA's previous speaker, who spoke about the human sensitivities of the Left and said about the New Democracy about some scandals that have been done in the past, about some lists that are constantly coming from abroad, they bring us new elements in which officials, ministers and elusives are involved in the former New Democracy and PASOK coup d'état. And he's absolutely right. We know very well what has happened. Once again, we have seen the name of Mr Papastavrou - once again - of former Prime Minister Samaras' immediate partner in these rageous economic scandals. Subsequently, when the New Democracy MP went up to talk, of course he couldn't say anything, because he came in a very difficult position, because he's with his back on the wall. However, because we are not in a difficult position, and because we do not have any officials and any of our MPs being persecuted or accused of being persecuted for the slightest economic scandal, we will stress that neither the Left nor SYRIZA can speak here, when they are present at the moment, when they have forgotten to declare 1 and 2 million euros in banks for which no procedure has been initiated, when other ministers such as Mr Tsakalotos, who is here at the moment, who has hundreds of thousands of euros in various foreign banks and is currently the Minister of Finance here over the Greek Government, or Flamburos, another Minister who is here, who has been unreasonable 'from now', something that, if any of the Members of the Golden Dawn, would immediately have been subject to persecution and penal sanctions. But here we change things, we tell them 'you didn't do the right thing 'from where you were', bring one here to justify it, children', and life goes on. Well, whether it's left or right, the scandals cover you all. And there you have a great difficulty going through these things, don't you? Because I have already heard that it will also be discussed on the lists coming from abroad, here is the scope to act. Bring these lists. And put before justice all those who are involved in it in a difficult position. But let us tell you something that we have told you dozens, hundreds of times from here: you will not. And you will not, because you yourself are part of this political system, which has plundered our country for so many years. You are the same to whom you are - allegedly - divided by political controversy, but, in essence, you are doing exactly the same. If you bring to justice, if you bring all these scandals before the Greek people and claim justice and the guilty are punished, we will be the first to applaud it. Until then, don't talk at all, let's just talk. We are listening here to the budget you are talking about, we are listening to all these great words, beautiful things. I would like to ask a few questions here. I do not want to refer either to numbers or numbers or to such things, which are actually fooling, confusing, drowning people. I'd like to say some things. You say that you make a budget to get our homeland better, so that Greek citizens can get better. To tell us: What development measures are there here, what incentives? What money will be given to the Greek farmer, to the Greek farmer, to the Greek worker, in order to do a small business, if you want, in order to develop something to stand on his feet? We see nothing in this budget. Unless you see other things. We see only taxes and just how you can take off every Greek citizen. We see you get those few left. But, obviously, you are a part of a plan exactly the same as the previous ones, the Europeans have taken your ears and you do exactly what they say. We will not forget that before the elections and January, but then you told us that the debt is not viable, it cannot be repaid. And that, of course, is the truth. We all know very well that the debt that you have led our country to this point - is unsustainable. Then you said that we would break the memorandum, that we would claim auditing the debt and see how much money we really owe and what a haircut we have to do, so that our country would not go bankrupt any more and no more. But when you became government, you forgot all that. So there are three data. Whether you were conscious liars and lying before the elections - to fool the Greek citizen - whether you were completely unrelated and didn't know - you thought that was the way things were, but it wasn't - you were either telling the truth, but when you came into power, and when the Europeans, who were riding you, shut your mouths and did exactly what the previous ones were saying. One of three applies. Whatever's happening, you're completely incompetent and you're dangerous for our country. I would like you to tell us: The Greek people, who have been paying for so many years and paying so many taxes, how will he trust you? What's wrong with the Greek citizen? Do you give him health? Are you giving him education? What do you provide him with? Are you providing him insurance? What do you provide? So you're asking him the Greek citizen just to pay. How long will he pay? When will he give you his money to laugh and drink to the health of suckers? Because that's how you see our Greek fellow citizens. So let the Greek people claim their rights, demand his right and expect nothing from this Greek Parliament. Unfortunately, the "Greek state" is not cut and does not care at all about the interests of the ordinary Greek citizen. I repeat that things are very difficult and we will once again ask the government to bring back the stolen money from the lists and all these scandals. And I will highlight two - three names in letters. What about the Tsukatos case, gentlemen, who has taken black money from "SIEMENS" and given it to the PASOK funds, but is nothing going on? Why is there no politician over there involved? Why can't anyone be prosecuted from there? The man said I took the money and put it in the PASOK funds. Impossible! What about Papantoniou, who had forgotten to say 1.5 million euros? 1,5 million euros? That's a lot of large. It's man. Do we forget about 1,5 million euros? So what did Greek justice say to him? Greek justice told him: “Okay, sir, you've been stealing 1,5 million euros? Give him EUR 80,000 fine and all honey - milk and life continues." Well, we said again that either left or right you did the same. The only ones who can resist this are the MPs and politicians of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u120	There has been a mutual transfer of paper from the Secretariat of the Group of the Democratic Integration Parliament, and in the position of Mr Theocharopoulos will be spoken by Mrs Kefalidou Charas, whom I call on the Vimas. Here comes Mr. Katsotis and Mr. Phofilas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget is mainly based on increasing tax revenues together with cuts in already collapsed incomes in an already exhausted tax capacity environment. Savings by reducing government expenditure: none. Investment perspective: none. So we are debating a preamble to a budget that is tough and - let me say - sad. A quick comparison of what you found and what you leave behind. Late general government obligations, December 2014: You have found the dues at EUR 3,763 billion and within nine months have reached EUR 5,954 billion. The state-battery, which does not pay its obligations and strangle the viability of its suppliers and the entire economy, has only increased by 60% in nine months! Financial interventions: Bring to a people who lift weights and who had slowly started to lift their heads and look forward, a third more outrageous and tax-free - for us an inappropriate - third memorandum, amounting to EUR 7.2 billion for the period 2015-2016. Capital control: This shameful measure, which effectively excludes Greece from the serious countries, has been installed and seems to have rooted for good. Recapitalisation of banks: With your proud policies you have eliminated the values of banks and created the unnecessary need for a new recapitalisation. The recapitalisation of zero values threw the Financial Stability Fund out of the ownership of the banks, obliging the public property to material damage of EUR 10-15 billion. You took measures of EUR 1.5 billion this year and a deficit of EUR 2.1 billion is expected in 2016. You brought back the ghost of the recession in the country, while you knew that we had budgeted growth of 2.5% in 2015. If we look forward to the first auctioning of dwellings, in execution of the promise you made to the world: 'No house in the hands of a banker'. Your budget also provides for an increase in revenue. But you want to see where? From an increase in VAT, from a permanentisation of the special solidarity levy, from an increase in the tax rate to professionals and businesses, from which you expect to get EUR 150 million - from those you have already strangled, of course, and many of you have already brought them down to Bulgaria - from increases in the tax advance for freelance professionals, from farmers and from the tripling of the OGA contributions. Your budget also includes a reduction in expenditure of EUR 2.3 billion. But do you know where these reductions come from? It is good to say it clearly, to listen to the few who still have not understood you. Beyond the increase in the state's dues, which is EUR 1.1 billion, we have: increased withholding from 4% to 6% on the main pensions! We have a reduction in supplementary pensions by EUR 300 million, a reduction in funds for education by EUR 300 million, a reduction in payments for care. All this concerns the social budget, namely people who are not privileged, vulnerable, that is to say all those who are allegedly tired and want to protect them. The 2016 budget has EUR 5.7 billion, according to the third memorandum, of which EUR 3.2 billion are new taxes, EUR 2.5 billion are the additional cuts. But let me tell you what this budget does not have. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, has no prospect. It does not create the political and social conditions that will mobilise the economy and the productive forces. It doesn't have a clear direction. There is no direct development intervention. Why - you have seen it - the Public Investment Programme remains established. He doesn't have anyone, but no vision, he doesn't know where he's going or he doesn't seem to want to go anywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget must be honestly reflecting the country's situation and clearly quantifying the political choices of the government in question. This budget does nothing of either. And it's natural. A government addicted to lying, awkward and vague politically orientation, all it can picture is itself. And that's what it does. Let me refer to the budget in the area of culture and sport. I read in the report with great interest I would say (Chapter 2, page 49), that the government emphasises the reconstruction of the institutional framework and administrative practice of sponsorships, with the aim of creating flexible practical methods for attracting, accepting and managing private promotions in culture, and I wonder how this is compatible with the loss of the 3,2m euro donation provided by the Niarchos Foundation for the National Museum of Contemporary Art. I must tell you that the question we have tabled to the Ministry of Culture has not yet been answered, but it is now clear that the blockages, the delays have created an extremely negative picture. The foundation has suspended the donation. However, I must tell you that eleven new donations amounting to EUR 33.95 million have been made for Greece, except Greece. As luxurious as trying to stimulate the budget of culture in a country like Greece, which is currently among a collapse and lives a misery endless, I must remind you that we are talking about Greece, a country that is a very serious source of wealth is its culture. And culture without funds you know that there can't be. This budget to be voted seems to be completely ignored. As if they didn't write him Greek. As far as sport is concerned, only one reminder I want to do: 2016 is the year of Olympics, so the year of increased and high requirements. I hope that this will be the case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, let me close - thank you for the time-to-time tolerance - by saying that this is not a budget. This is an account of treason that you send to all the Greek families who believed in the fairy tales and in your kindly promises, but unfortunately they haunt all of us. We who do not believe in fairy tales for a third pension, for an increase in wages, for a tax at EUR 12 000, for appointments to the public and so forth, say that this budget cannot be supported, and that is why we are voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u122	At this point I would like to read to you a communication to the House: 'To the President of Parliament. Mr President, I now request an absence permit on 4 December 2015 for personal reasons. By honour, Georgios Koumoutsakos". Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u123	The House approved the requested permission. I call on the Speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Christos Katsoti. Please, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. At this time, the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, in addition to the implementation of all the measures adopted by the New Democracy and the PASOK during the previous period, but also themselves, at a strong pace, is preparing a new package of measures, which is required by capital, by the European Union. The aim is the capitalist recovery and the new investments that need to come. Measures should contribute to this objective, create an even more friendly environment for business groups. What are these measures? New state subsidies, additional tax exemptions, new profit fields with privatisations, completion of crime against social security and further overturns in industrial relations. So the government is preparing the insurance bill, it's committed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u125	Please have some peace in the benches there, Mr. Kegeroglou with the brood voice. Carry on, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Brutsi, listen a little. Then you can talk. So the government is preparing the new insurance bill - it has a commitment from the third memorandum - which will be carried out in the next few days. It opens up the discussion on labour. Yesterday, he had a first debate with the European Parliament group in order to implement - as he says - the best practices currently being implemented in the countries - members of the European Union. Best practices are the ones which, based on the decisions of the European Union, strengthen the competitiveness of businesses, such as mini-jobs - the minimum work, namely - in Germany, zero-time contracts in England and other such fine for capitalists, who implement them with very great imagination. They are the elastic forms of work, which are the main lines of the European Union. On this basis comes a new blow to full and stable work, collective labour agreements, redundancies are released and individual contracts will dominate. The work jungle will become even more jungle. All these overthrows will have a decisive impact on the situation and on the insurance situation, which I will deal with further. The slaughter in social security will continue with the new regulations being prepared. The aim is to free employers and the State from the debt of their participation in social security and to reduce further the price of the labour force. No one's left intact. Whenever he retires, whatever fund he's insured. The current pensioners will also suffer a great deal, since pensions will be recalculated. The Government baptises the slaughter in health, welfare and pensions as 'justice'. The insurance system is formed on the basis of the targets for reduction - as we have said - of the price of labour by reducing or abolishing non-wage labour costs. This serves the third memorandum, which you have all voted on, gentlemen, no matter how far you want to distance yourself for other reasons. The attack will escalate. It is not just about pensions, it is about the benefits of the funds and of the State in care and health care, health and safety at work. Unifications in the funds will lead, as in the past, to an equation below the benefits and rights of all insured persons. The budget prejudges new bloody cuts. Only next year will it be loaded on the backs of insured and retired persons. In addition to the reductions in one-off pensions and the abolition of CSR, the euro with reductions in basic and supplementary pensions. State funding to the funds is further reduced. It provides for increases in farmers' contributions to the OGA and for the continuation of withholdings, this 6%, in pensions for the EEAS. I don't want to mention numbers. Our rapporteurs have already said that. Most of the reduction relates to pension funds. New bloody cuts are being planned from the pension recalculation, as I said before by changing the replacement rate - and not only - but also by abolishing the basic pension for those who do not have the sixty-seven-year-olds. The government baptises it 'justice'. Cultivates social automation at the expense of those who have been retired under the sixty-two years. We are asking, however, whether or not these pensions were provided by laws and the statutes of the funds? I think so. The government has already decided on the integration of all the main insurance funds in an excess, with a key feature of the merger downwards, as we have said before. It has committed itself to abolishing so-called social resources, to what it still maintains. He refuses to implement the decision of the Council of State, which considers the continuing reductions in the main and ancillary pensions as well as the State's non-guarantee for all pensions unconstitutional. I am presenting for the Minutes the seventh thought, which is also the decision of the Council of State. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As a JRC, we have stressed that the anti-grassroots, the reinsurance measures, which were taken in the name of the crisis, will remain and will be constantly added new. The civil order requires that it be fully exempted from participation in social security. She wants to turn this popular need into a new field of profitability. The JRC calls for strong, mass, fighting, intervention of the working class, self-employed, poor farmers, young people and women. Participation in the strike tomorrow will be a stage in the race's escalation. To prevent the new reinsurance attack. To stop the reduction of pensions and benefits. To be required by the working class and by other people's layers of uniform, compulsory, exclusively public social security system, which will guarantee pensions and benefits for all corresponding people's needs. The only force that can stand in the way of the plans of impoverishment and overthrowing of rights and conquests, which can put brakes on the forum of capital and its governments, is the popular alliance, the workers, the pensioners, women and youth. In this movement, the JRC will give all its powers. Social security must be compulsory, universal and be the responsibility of the State and the employer. So only he can offer decent pensions, free and human care and adequate welfare benefits. We need to defeat the policy that is being pursued. The working class must show no consensus, no compromise. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You want a consensus to drive the people to the bottom. The response of the working class and the populaces can be nothing but the organization and the struggle, to come exactly the bottom, as they shout in their slogan. To respond with counter-infringement, with indiscipline, to the decisions of the European Union, with unblocking and deleting the debt, socialising the monopolies, by forming the alliance that will claim its own popular power. We will table the JRC's positions on the urgent questions on the Minutes, which are urgently needed to claim from the working class. We are not voting for the budget, of course. We will contribute with our action to cover the losses and to claiming the modern needs of our workers, our people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u127	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Member, Mr Metatakis, is requested permission for a transition to the United Kingdom for family reasons from Wednesday, December 9th to Thursday, 10th. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u128	The House approved the requested permission. My colleague from Potami, Mr Iason Foilas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2016 budget, the first budget drawn up by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with the Greek economy being in absolute liquidity suffocation. The masks, however, are slowly falling. Already this bill is exposing you. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if you read the explanatory statement, but there you admit, for the first time sincerely, that the deterioration of all the indicators of the Greek economy is a result of your own policy. You can assure us that for 2016 the consequences of your disastrous first quarter of government will continue. You are clearly telling us that the GDP of the country in 2014 was at plus 0.7%, in 2015 it fell to 0% and in 2016 we will have a recession of 0.7%. So where are the parallel programmes? Where are the equivalents? Where are the manoeuvres of the elephant, Mr. Friend? You are talking about insurance only in the sense of reductions, with total social unfairness, and you are saying that you do not understand that the insurance problem cannot be dealt with in the medium term, no matter how much cuts are made if we do not go through the recession in growth, unless investment is attracted and employment is not strengthened. And with this bill - as I pointed out - there is no development for 2016 either. Unemployment, especially among young people, will continue to be unthinkable. Otherwise, your Ministers, such as Mr Mardas, say unresponsively, as newly appointed representatives of the IMF and the hardest neoliberalism, that bad past governments made a tragic mistake in history, showing cowardice, shaking the full application of the memorials, thus losing the dynamics. First time left! And Mr Spirtzis, after grappling with the Greek people's money, has, on the one hand, increased the ticket from 1,20 euro to 1,40 euros in urban transport and, on the other, decided to deal more with the appointment of your own children to the administrations of urban transport. Second left! And as a cherry on the cake, the Prime Minister, who's coming to ask for national insurance consultation. And go and call them. What did he say to them? Did he explain his proposal to them? Oh, no. Why? Maybe why didn't he want to? But then why did he call them? Maybe why isn't he? Very likely. Did - finally - because the Prime Minister himself has already agreed with the partners in horizontal reductions and simply, not wanting to take full responsibility for his own negotiations, he is looking for accomplices? So Mr. Tsipras called on the Chiefs and with a lot of courage he said to them: "Let us all gather together to assume my responsibilities." Then he suggested: 'Why don't we get a joint communiqué saying we don't want pension reductions?' And who wants pension cuts, bro? And the question is, why is Mr Tsipras suddenly being cut off for national understanding? Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Because if the Chiefs, all or some of them, chew on the hair and say 'OK, let us sign a joint announcement that we do not want pension reductions', when Mr. Tsipras imposes the reductions he has already agreed with the partners, he will come out and say: 'Lords, we have failed. We didn't manage to cut down on pensions. But I have not failed, but the whole political system, which we signed, that we do not want reductions. So the responsibility lies with all of us." As if we were all negotiating together. If the Heads still fail to sign - no matter what happened - then they will simply say: 'I haven't done it, because the others have not supported me. They are to blame for the reductions in pensions.’ In any case, Mr. Tsipras will not be the fault of it. Everyone else must be to blame. We are talking about the greatest political fraud in the last decades! Proof of the pretext of the case is that Mr. Tsipras did not even have the finest to wait before making announcements, such as, in other words, customary when you really want consent and cooperation. You're giving on the other side of the year, looking for a second chance. Mr Tsipras, on the contrary, half an hour after the meeting of the Heads, attacked all the political leaders - apart from Mr Leventis, perhaps - with an extremely divisive proclamation. Mr Tsipras, neither cooperation nor consensus can be created. In fact, if Mr. Tsipras and his advisers spent half a year than they spend to invent such micro-political delusions in ruling this place with vision and programme, things would be much better for the country and its citizens at this time. The most fascinating of all, and institutionally dangerous, is that it is involved in these political terrestrials and the President of the Republic, who perhaps well-meaningly does not think of it twice before deciding to support Mr Tsipras. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I wonder: did the President of the Republic not feel the need to speak of stability and cooperation when the country was with one and a half feet on the cliff and outside the euro on the substance of July? Not even in September - although he could - called a meeting of political leaders after the failure of the exploratory mandates and when the country really needed consent, so that it would not lead to new elections. The President of the Republic did not find a word about the catastrophic elections in September, contrary to the large majority of the Greek people, who, in over 70%, did not want elections, because he was seeing the deadlocks that only after two months came. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing with this. Things are simple and clear. With the sole motive of your stay in power, you decorate the institutions, you dismantle the economy, you destroy the people, you destroy the country. And that's what you're looking for in us accomplices and an alibi. Search in other wings of the House willing and "leaving" for your work. You, gentlemen, if you really want to do something useful at this very last moment for the country, something patriotic, quit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u130	I would ask Mr. Konstantinos Zouraris to come to Stepma on behalf of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u131	Mr. President, my respects. Colleagues and colleagues, today I am a 'free grazing' and I am going to talk about some of the 'cascats' involved in education. Because we have no money, and from what I understand from the Committee on Forestry, there will be no books coming out now, but in three terms, we have the comfort, at least, as in Orphics, for example, where the Kutsuk Kainartzi Treaty has come out of our suffering, to talk about education in these several quarters. Fortunately, there is Kostas Gabroglou in the committee, which is one of the most modest colleagues I know here and on the national level. So I'm going to fight the Morphistry, which I'm going to lose, of course, for the self-evident. Because some 'bosquitos' must prove that it is not 'voscots', not me that I am not an elephant. I start with this: there will be a big conversation, because it will also go to the books "Our language" from the first grade to the last class of high school, where a dirty idiot, who came with this scor, who always comes from Estonia for two months. Please, score isn't what you know on the stadiums. She's with omega and muddy. If you do my lunch in a tavern, I'll tell you the general. The'scor' that comes from us is, you know, the inconvenience. The thorny scientific delay in this matter, because we will also have them there in the committee, is this: When they talk about the 'continuation' of Hellenism, which for about a hundred and fifty years ago began by some stupid Europeans - and I will explain why they did so and it was not just for the well-known political reasons, it was disgraceful - they must tell us scientifically, at which point, when Hellenism ended. When? By extermination, when the Galatians came, say, the second time in Athens or Bithynia, when under Turkish rule, where an idiotic colleague - forgive me, pasta - says that the term "Turkey" must be replaced by "Ottoman multiethnicity"? So they have to tell us when! I'm not going to talk to you about self-evident things. Let's say, when you know that the four main words in each language - God, the sea - have forgotten what the third is, in any case, fourth is'shoot' - there are from the hostage years, you understand that we cannot talk about discontinuity. But I'll tell you this: Except that you have to tell us when we stopped and if there's a "blackness" and the dirty nonsense that the Greek Nation took place after the French Revolution in an introduction, in 1237, for example, Battatzis, in his letter to Pope Gregorios in 9th, he says... (John the Battzis, the so-called "Saint". He is the only Saint Byzantine emperor, because calling Constantine “holy” is rebellious!) In any case, Saint John the Battzis is the greatest general. He has liberated all Central Asia Minor, a large part of Macedonia, and liberates Thessaloniki. He's a philosopher. In his letter to Gregory in 9th in 1237 he said: "You know, Pope, that we are the ancient genus of the Greeks." 1237! Five centuries ago, in the letters sent to us by the Westerners with Ljutprandos, in the conflicts with the then rulers of Western Christianity, namely Romania, otherwise Byzantium (often, as you know, you learn from the opponents who you are) all the letters in Latin, addressed to Byzantium, speak of Greek bishops. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer to this question. So I'll finish by giving you another sample of the slow-trafficking duration. Because all those who come are amused. You will read it in the book "The Debt" of Mickey, who is considered a nationalist. And Yannis Richos is considered a nationalist of them. This sample is this: I will give you two four-year-olds, which, of course, mentions when Mickey makes a musical approach to Greek music. One is'sol, sole, sole, à la', the other is'sol, sole, sole, à la'. You can also take it with "do, todo, todo, man", "la, la, la, σ" on any range, on any scale. So one is the "do, do, do, do, man." The second is 'do, do, do, do, man'. Do you know what it is? The first is "Next Sunday" and the second is "Supreme General". Between the "Next Sunday" and the "Promacho General" with the two similar four-stages, there have been thousands of four hundred years that separate these two songs. A thousand four hundred years, uniting them! This is for the "boss" of inconvenience!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Zouraris. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and four educational attendants from the 5th Acharnon High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The last speaker on the first cycle, Mr Saridis, from the Centroon Union, has the floor, and then the roll-call vote begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deal with numbers. I leave them to the general rapporteurs and to the special rapporteurs. The budget is not a simple law, because the government's political will must be reflected in it. The budget must take into account many factors, such as political, social and strategic. And in any case the budget must clearly reflect the government's ideology. It is therefore one of the most important legislations. You are trying to present him to us as a pragmatic, developmental and social law. You say that this budget has two objectives: budgetary equilibrium and social justice. Looking at him very carefully, I have come to the conclusion that we are in danger of returning to non-balanced budgets, that your conservative estimates are ultimately unrealistic, as, according to the five days ago, you have already fallen out in terms of recession. Finally, there is provision, you know, for a threefold growth rate of recession and a double drop in the economic climate index. Mr. Tsipras in 2014 stated that the people have now inspired that you do not go in the Memorandum. After the September elections, all he repeats is that the people knew what the Prime Minister signed on 15 August. And that is where he tries to draw the legalisation of this budget. What social justice are we talking about? Farmers are obliged to pay 100% tax advance. You increased VAT from 13% to 26%, while taxing subsidies for the first time, at the same time as abolishing agricultural oil. Inside everything, they will also pay HISPIA for all the parcels. Is that your social justice? You reduced the amount you budgeted for the CSCE by 30%. This two things may mean either that you will reduce the amount of CSR or reduce the beneficiaries of CSR. Is that social justice for you? Indirect taxes are more than direct taxes, and this alone proves that you cannot speak of social justice. VAT on milk, on bread will be paid by the poor and the rich. A socially fair budget should have had more direct taxes and less indirect taxes. Minimum guaranteed income: How many election promises have you made on the minimum guaranteed income?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u134	He's the last speaker in the first circle. To respect him, as we respected the previous seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u135	How many fellow citizens have invested in your promises? Now these citizens read in the budget that the resources for the minimum guaranteed income have not been found to them, but you do not worry, because it will help you with the provision of technical assistance from the World Bank. [[Take a picture of the page. 179a]] In short, on page 33 of the budget you tell us that the World Bank will find us where we will pay the minimum guaranteed income. So, what do we think, knowing that the pilot project that has already been implemented in thirteen municipalities for six months has to be evaluated first on criteria that we do not know? Do you admit that the minimum guaranteed income is another false assumption? Your sincerity - you know - is exhausted in the assumption that the conduct of the two elections, as well as that of the referendum, did not just cost 115 million euros, but shaped the conditions that allowed the deterioration of the economic climate, the deferment of investment plans and the increase in deflationary pressures, which you are telling us you will mitigate from the increase in VAT. All about social justice, gentlemen! The myth of the social sensitivity of "for the first time left". You are telling us that the objective of the budget is the budgetary balance. You are proud of the reduction in the budgetary targets. What should we do with it? On the one hand, the objectives have been reduced and on the other hand, costs of achieving them have been increased. You describe the budget as the beginning of a new path. At the same time you admit that the exacerbation of economic uncertainty in the first quarter of 2015 led to a vertical fall in the economic climate index. What else to comment, despite the fact that this budget is inappropriate? Soon you will call us again to review what you are just asking us to vote on. With the new year and after the total figures for the fourth quarter are published, you will be folded. Let us say a few words about the famous financial footprint. All figures show a deterioration, especially those relating to social security institutions. I would remind you that we are called upon to vote on today's budget, when we do not know the cost of insurance. Half-work, colleagues! The budget figures themselves show that the recession has come to remain and that the solution chosen by the budget is new taxes, pension cuts and allowances. It does not come from anywhere that the budget is trying to strengthen control structures. How do you expect revenue from the fight against corruption, oil and tobacco smuggling without strengthening control structures? What does this unemployment budget provide for? The fifty thousand part - time jobs you guarantee? What does the budget for the departure of Greek companies in Bulgaria, Romania, Luxembourg? What does the budget provide for social consequences for health and education? Finally, I cannot help talking about the GSP statement that we cannot feed and dress our soldiers. This budget is material, anti-developmental, inefficient, with the same principle, as all of us have been for many years. I hope it doesn't have the same ending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, almost with the accuracy of Swiss clocks, we have normally reached the roll-call vote. At this point, therefore, we will suspend the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2016" and we will proceed to vote on the articles, amendments and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Strengthening land of Greece and other provisions". Articles 4 and 19 and Amendments 80/23 and 84/27 of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food have been submitted for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Republic whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u137	I'll read...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Loverdo, I'm sorry, I'm recognizing a list and you're asking me to interrupt? After reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u140	We're leaving!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u141	Yes, it's registered since yesterday. All right, say it to the microphone for it to be recorded. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u142	I take the floor not to interrupt, Mr President, from Marbles, but to inform the House that we are leaving, as we have said yesterday, so that no one wonders where we are at the time when our names are being spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much. I shall therefore read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote to determine whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Kasapidis George. Here you go. Mrs. Arabatzis Lighthouse. Here. Mr. Georgios George. Here you go. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Kefaliannis Ioannis. Here you go. Mrs Martinou Georgia. Here. Mr. Stylos George. Here you go. Mr. Brutsis John. Here you go. Mrs. Antoniou Maria. Here. Mr. Athanasios Charalambos. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mr. Consolas Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Augias Eleftherios. Here you go. Mr. Skrekas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr Anastasiades Savvas. Here you go. Mr. Pschakis Anastasios. Here you go. Mr. Panagiotopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Buras Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Giannakis Stergios. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure has been supplemented by the request for roll-call vote by Members. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 4 and 19 and on Amendments 80/23 and 84/27 of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Greek land and other provisions’. Our 'usually suspicious' colleagues, Mrs Anastasia Gara, from SYRIZA and Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy, whom I thank on behalf of the entire House of MPs, are on the list. The acceptance of the articles and amendments of the draft law is 'WHEN'. The non-accepting articles and amendments of the bill say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the articles and amendments of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. I would ask both colleagues to start reading the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Kasapidis, what do you want? When the vote begins, it is by concession that I give you the floor on a point of order. You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Kasapidi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u147	The procedure has not begun, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u148	There's a start of the process. Mr. Brutsi, I know better than you do. There's a start of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u149	We also reserve to open up a positioning process!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u150	Is there no procedure since colleagues went up?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Mada, don't waste time. Just a minute, let's hear what Mr. Kasapidis wants. Here, Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u152	This is a paradoxical one: in the draft 'Substantial land and other provisions', which has twenty-one articles, twenty-four amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u153	This isn't new!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u154	I propose to change the name of the bill and to call it: "Regardless of provisions in the bill "Boscable lands of Greece". We, in protesting about this process, do not vote for any of these amendments, despite the fact that we consider that some of them have a positive content. We propose that all these amendments should come to another bill. At the moment, we are voting negatively on all of this, protesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u155	Mr Kasapidis, if you want this to be recorded as a position of the New Democracy - I assume that is what you want - it must be said at the time of the roll-call vote, to be recorded in everything, because in the Minutes it has to be recorded. Unless I'm in agreement with the president to get time and get the "OH" in line with the position you've made. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u156	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from colleagues in the Bureau, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, Mr Anna Karamanlis, Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras, Mr Panagiotis (South) Mitarakis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'NOV'. In addition, Mr Panos Kammenos is absent and by letter he knows that, if he were present, he would vote "NEI". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, until the count has been completed I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-six students and students and three educational sessions from the High School of Andreas Elias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the vote on the remaining articles and amendments to the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Substantive lands in Greece and other provisions'. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u159	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u160	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u161	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u163	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u164	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u166	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u167	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u168	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 4 was put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u169	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u170	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u171	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u172	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u175	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u176	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u177	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u178	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u179	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u180	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u181	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u182	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u183	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u184	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u185	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u186	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u187	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u188	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u189	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u190	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u191	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u192	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u194	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u195	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u196	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u197	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u198	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u199	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u201	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u202	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u203	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u204	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u206	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u210	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u211	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u213	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u215	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u216	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u218	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u219	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u222	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u223	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 19 was put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u224	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u225	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u226	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u227	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, I would like to justify our vote on some articles in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u229	Mrs. Arabatzis, you can lodge a written statement in the minutes for it to be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, because we are now going to vote on your amendments to facilitate your motion for a resolution, I would like to say that we have put ourselves in a negative position, we are negative to all of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u231	All right, Mr. Kasapidi. We shall now vote on the amendments. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 58 and a special number 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u232	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u233	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u234	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 58 and a special 1 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 61 and a special number 4, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u235	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u237	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u238	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 61 and a special 4 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 62 and a special number of five?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u239	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u240	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u241	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u242	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 62 and a special 5 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 63 and a special number 6 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u243	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u244	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u245	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u246	So the amendment, under a general number 63 and a special 6, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 64 and a special 7, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u247	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u248	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u251	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 64 and a special 7 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 65 and a special number 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u252	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u253	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u255	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u257	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 65 and a special 8 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 68 and a special number 11 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u258	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u259	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u260	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u262	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 68 and a special 11 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 69 and a special number of 12?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u263	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u264	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u265	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u266	The amendment, under a general number 69 and a special 12, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 70 and a special number of 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u267	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u268	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u269	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u270	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u272	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 70 and a special 13 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does this House accept the amendment with a general figure of 71 and a special figure of 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u273	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u274	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 71 and a special 14 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 76 and a special number 19 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u275	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u276	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 76 and a special 19 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 77 and a special 20, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u277	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u278	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u279	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u280	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u281	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u282	The amendment under a general number 77 and a special 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 78 and a special number 21, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u283	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u284	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u285	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u286	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u287	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u288	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 78 and a special number 21 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 81 and a special number of 24?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u289	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u290	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u291	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u293	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 81 and a special 24 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 83 and a special number 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u295	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u296	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u297	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u298	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u299	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 83 and a special 26 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number of 85 and a special number of 28?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u300	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u301	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u303	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u304	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u305	So the amendment under a general number 85 and a special 28 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 86 and a special number 29?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u306	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u307	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u309	So the amendment under a general number 86 and a special 29 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number 87 and a specialist of 30?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u310	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u311	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u312	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u314	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 87 and a specialist of 30 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. I repeat that the Democratic Assent has departed, SYRIZA and ANELs vote 'yes' in all, and New Democracy, except where it was placed, in all the others votes 'no'. That's for writing in the Minutes. While waiting for the result, let us not forget that I have promised Mrs Anastasia Garas and Mr Giannis Kefaloyannis some special treatment when the time comes to speak on the budget. They'll have a time bonus. I'm saying that if Mr. Kourakis is in the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u315	And for the rest of us rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u316	All right! I'm giving you guys anyway! But here children have been dealing with the votes since January and they are worth it. Aren't they worth a bonus of two or three minutes in their speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u317	After all, one is from Evros and the other from Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u318	Explosive mixture! We therefore expect the result of a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. [[Enter the text of the bill p. 223a]] A total of 259 Members voted. In favour of Article 4 of the draft law, 'NEA' voted 169 MPs. Under Article 4 of the draft law, 90 Members voted against. They voted 'APPROVAL': None. Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. In favour of Article 19 of the draft law, i.e. 'NAI', 152 Members voted. Under Article 19 of the draft law, 107 Members voted against. They voted 'APPROVAL': None. Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. On the amendments: In favour of Amendment No 80 and a special 23 of the draft law, i.e. 'NA', 152 Members voted. Against the amendment of a general number 80 and a special number 23 of the draft law, the House voted 89 Members. They voted for 18 MPs. Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 80 and a special 23 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. In favour of Amendment No 84 and a special 27 of the draft law, i.e. 'NA', they voted 152 Members. Against Amendment No 84 and a special 27 of the draft law, 99 Members voted against. They voted for 8 MPs. The amendment, by a general number 84 and a special 27, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u320	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Does the House agree to an article in the bill, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u322	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u323	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u325	The office of departure was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Substantive land and other provisions" was accepted by a majority on the principle and on the articles. Do you accept, ladies and gentlemen, that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u326	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u327	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u328	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u329	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u330	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u331	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food ‘Bossible land and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u332	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u333	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming back to the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Symblene Nikolaos has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Armachyn, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the left-wing government, is for the first time tabling its own budget for 2016, a budget that we know is suffocating within specific limits and frameworks, a budget that is not what we would like to see. Nonetheless, this budget is governed by our perception of fiscal stability and social justice, effectively laying the foundations for overcoming the recession and the crisis. From this point of view, 2016 can really be classified - under conditions, and if what we would like to do by the end of 2016 - as a historic year of raising and recovering the country for the benefit of the Greek people and especially the weakest social strata. On the contrary, the Opposition, and particularly the angonizing Chief of New Democracy, as well as the PASOK and the Potami, have so far followed a blind reaction to what measures have been passed this two-month period. We now close just two months of parliamentary work following the elections on 20 September and the anti-population forces are conducting a dead-end and blind opposition tactic, which obviously cannot have any effect, not only to hit the government, but also to them. It has no results and they will see it very quickly. So they react both to measures of the agreement, which they themselves voted with two hundred and twenty-two votes on 14 August, but they also react to measures of the parallel programme. They wonder what the parallel program is. I would like to say to them that one of the legislations that we have voted on, for television frequencies, is one of the first instruments in the parallel programme, which they fought with rabies maniacs, for precisely this piece of legislation serves specific interests which the forces of counter-population, the New Democracy and the PASOK have been serving for years. As long as they see that the SYRIZA - ANLL government is being inspired and see that the structures built for many decades in the deep state, in the military, in the police, in the judiciary, in the banking system, as long as they see a new left power is in place, the more they will try in a rabies way to restore the new situation. However, these structures will collapse not to be replaced by a party state that you claim we are building, but to be replaced by a state of justice, a state among citizens, a state that will serve the great majority of the Greek people. Another culture will be created within society, which will be a long way from customer and rousfetological relations, which you have built for forty and fifty years. The opposition repeats the well-known pattern, trying to terrorize the Greek people and especially the vulnerable layers of pensioners, shouting for tax raid, for the collapse of pensions, for the auctioning of first residence. But reality keeps denying them. Instead of a recession that even the preliminary draft budget foresaw - by ourselves - that it would be 2.4%, there is a zero recession in 2015, despite the huge economic war we have suffered and that led to two elections and a referendum within an incrediblely suffocating framework of capital controls. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget will not only be stable but also as far as possible social justice. But it will also be absolutely realistic. It is the most moderate and measured version of the recording of the financial data, in view of the possible increase in revenue from lists, smuggling, an increase in collection, indicators which are very likely to be added to the budgets, since the Government has accelerated its action in this direction. After all, the increase in revenue at the end of October 2015 by 700m euros is a first positive, but important sign, if continued, will lead to a relatively short review of some painful measures, especially in increases in VAT rates, as took place in the first six islands in the Aegean, but also in absurd factors in 23% of the focus, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. The 2016 budget has, despite the management of minimum resources, a semantic social figure. The increase in the social budget by 823m euros compared to 2015 is an important indicator that, after five years, shows the intention of our Government. Among these, there is an increase of 350 million for public health that will guarantee all uninsured free access to hospitals, 62 million for uninsured over-ages. It includes freedom of movement for unemployed people in public transport. The funds are included to deal with the humanitarian crisis. In particular in the public health budget, there are new recruitments to the Aegean islands of medical, nursing and administrative staff, new ambulances, of course, by an EAW which is unbundled after seven years and a hundred and eighty-six rescuers are recruited. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. It also includes the establishment of the single airspace operator under the auspices of the Air Force, which will tackle this crucial issue in the most radical way. The funds of the intercom are also guaranteed from the Ministry of Shipping's budget and the funds of the Hellenic Coast Guard, which will be directed both at increased wages and expenses, as well as at the major requirements and the work that staff perform on the first line of reception of the refugee current, are increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u335	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u336	Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that this budget can manage a poor, miserable reality, hence its main objective is budgetary stability and social justice, but it also contains elements of development that are determined with low primary surpluses, with savings of 7 billion for 2016 with redistribution of resources to more productive objectives, with an increase in the Public Investment Programme and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u338	Finally, I would like to say that our Government will boldly and consistently serve them. Those who dream of global governments should forget it. We invite you to vote for the SYRIZA - ANEL government budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, too. However, we must respect the time, because we need to speak more colleagues and the days are limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u340	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u341	Mr Constantine Vlassis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor, so that we can be within time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had not shut down the sixteen years of my life, when I literally was shocked by the patron lyrics of Sophocles "and major ones, the patron of the patrons, thinks of him as I say, "Whoever over the home puts faces, even his best friend." And it continues the great tragic “defence, and save us when her ship is strong and then we have friends and, and, and... You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to confess to you - with the risk that I am contemplating myself - that I have entered this tough point of politics, and that I have absolutely believed and unnecessarily touched on both of these wise decisions: above all, and all of the homeland, individual happiness only within a strong and prosperous homeland. And as far as I am concerned, these are not patriots' patriopathy, it is not unexplained or opportune nationalism, it is the beliefs of a man who was founded early and unproven within it, good or bad for some. And what does this man see in his tenth month just in his presence? Unfortunately, he sees - and I wish he would make a mistake - a two-party and even "first-time left" government putting faces, relatives, friends, party officials above home, above society as a whole, above general good and interest. In posts, posts and posts that require the excellent, they are normally placed as a rule the heterogeneous. While the Greek state today needs, above all, the right people in the right position, it receives, with the exception of exception, the opposite: the inappropriate, the incompetent, the key, because they are our children. "You've done the same," says the cynicst of co-pilots. We did not do the same, and yet not the same, and nonetheless not so unequivocally and disgracefully. And for what we have done, we must also say a great 'I'm sorry'. However, my generation did not do so by my own generation, the generation of forty-fours, to which the Prime Minister, from which the wintering Greek people a different morality, waited and waited for another policy, if he had not been despaired: without lies, without hypocrisy, without tactics, without fencing, without the party interest clearly and remarkably above society, by the national ones. So we have reached a historic parliamentary time, the first state budget on the Left. For his content, for his justice, for his social or not, for the feasibility of his objectives, for his ability to do so, and so forth, they have spoken and will speak other colleagues from all parties in opposition, possibly more experts than I am. However, any reader of this and at first glance sees the primary deficits when the New Democracy Government in the previous state budget just presented surpluses. It sees the recession in the position of growth. He sees a tax raid instead of a tax relief. It sees wage and pension cuts instead of a minimum wage increase and a thirteenth pension. All of you, I imagine, remember the false promises you made in the vote of the Greek people. And today you pay off all the present troubles to the previous ones, as if ten months of governance were not enough to dissolve everything, as if the last three days of extortion are not enough to destroy the household, which the last government of New Democracy had jointly achieved, as if the last citizen no longer knew how many billions of euros were loaded on his back by experimentation, lionism and settlements, the naivety and ignorance of the sacred alliance SYRIZA - ANEL. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The government, self-sufficient in its great lies, has led to a dead end, both in January with the Thessaloniki Programme and increases in pensions, and in September with the parallel program and the immortal equivalents. The government has consistently deceived the Greek people. Using the same communication tactics, it is now, supposedly, seeking consensus with the creation of red lines to prevent further reductions in Greek pensions. At the same time, however, it has agreed and signed unnecessary pension cuts of EUR 3.2 billion. Hypocrisy for all her majesty! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. As regards the insurance funds, in 2014 they had a surplus of EUR 697 million. In 2015 a deficit of 1.2 billion. In 2016, EUR 1.1 billion in deficits. The euro. In the negotiations of our government with the troika on insurance, none of these painful and hard measures were proposed as necessary, which is confirmed by economic sizes and e-mail Hardouvelis. Didn't you give us a consensus on the country's salvation, and now you're calling for a consensus on its destruction? After all, you were not the ones who said "we or them". Aren't you the ones who immediately after the election you said you could only with Kammenos? What are you asking for now? We are therefore in favour of coexistence, cooperation, solidarity, mutual respect, consensus. Yes, consensus, even in the budget, is enough to be developmental, fair to burden-sharing, hopeful to its objectives, serious to its prospects, social, even applicable. He doesn't have those features, not at all. The New Democracy is always here, guaranteeing and answering all the Greeks: and those who legitimately oppose it and those who temporarily drift away from promises or bitters from its failures have left it, but those who are sure and stable remain in its ranks, certain of its democratic and social DNA, sure of its regenerative and creative power. In the name of this democracy we say 'no' to the budget of the 'first' left-wing government. And to close, as I began with Sophocles, “great words of great wound to the elders, who have chosen old men, have taught them.” And to translate: "the great words of the arrogants, after they also became the cause of great calamity, taught them in old age to be wise." I wish that Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Burned to read, translate and respect the epilogue of Antigone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr. Vlassi. The reason for six minutes is SYRIZA MEP Mr. Barkas Konstantinos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us admit it. It bothers you that the Left is tabling a budget. Let's face it, you don't feel convenient that the Left exercises power in the country. Let's face it, you have a terrible love with power. You're annoyed by the Opposition. It disturbs you that your society has put you on the sidelines. Let's face it. This government, "the first time left" in the country as a government, claims a budget which you would not even mind crossing your mind to make. And why? Because you have no social reference, no social conscience, to claim for the people. You are aware of those social groups you have been defending for years. We hear amazing things from your mouth, such as that this budget is not my social responsibility. Was it yours? When you cut pensions, wages, allowances, when you were sending 25% of young people to unemployment, was your social budget? Was it characterized as a social budget? And is our own, who raises the money, the benefits for the vast majority of society not social? Really, did you apologize and finished with your sins for forty years in power? Is an apology enough? The generation of forty-nine didn't do anything? Not even in universities? Not even when you were clinging to old MPs and ministers of the New Democracy? Are you made of virginity? So let's understand. To know who we're talking to! Don't talk like that. I'm sure an apology isn't enough. And it's a given fact that you didn't apologize to the people. "The tenth month destroyed the economy." A ten-month period, in other words, managed to destroy a political project, a success story that was under constant operation, according to Mr Samaras. Really? Why don't we tell the facts? Why don't we say what you had to manage, what did you do five years and what did we have to manage and what did we do ten months? And, of course, this debate will be held in the adjournment. In the 40 years, we will put the conversation in place and not in the last ten months. You want to see? In this way, they are 'our own children'. Split of subsidies to farmers, which you are now asking for, we take them back because they were your own children. We're going to have this conversation. We will have the debate in terms of reality and not as you wish. 'Reductions in pensions by the current government'. When? Where? Where did you see them? Can we talk about your cuts first? Can we talk about the fact that you were making cuts of up to 50% in pensions and salaries? Should we discuss the fact that you increased unemployment by 27%? Let's see how Mr. Brutsis treated youth unemployment by making 400 euro programmes, without even paying 1 euro in paper? Is that how you're destroying unemployment? The insurance funds were brought in by us in a state of collapse. Does the PSI mean anything to you? Do you know what it is? The bonds? The stock market? Are you gonna say something about this? Are you going to say a word about these, or are we going to allow these arguments to be taken some other time? Also, there have been various hints about my region. I heard Mr. Economou say that Preveza Hospital - after discussion with the MP of the New Democracy, Mr. Giannakis - is falling apart. What hospital? What health is falling apart? I'll remind you of five things. From 2010 to 2015 you left, which the world banned you, you did not even make a single intake in the health section of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff. Not even one! What did you do? Pull out! You did not make a single euro increase in the health budget. What did you do? You've reduced him! Do you want to see what this government is doing, which you are accused of? That government's hiring to health. Is social health referring to the world? Of course! Is it increasing the hospital budget? Of course! Is that why you have something to say? And to answer for Preveza, Mr. Giannakis as a member of the New Democracy then, what does he have to say about the fact that within a five-year period they left the Preveza Hospital forty-four doctors? Can I tell you what the SYRIZA government, Alexis Tsipras's government, did? He placed four doctors at the Preveza Hospital. He increased the budget by 500,000 euros! Is the Preveza Hospital falling apart? Preveza Hospital assures you that it will remain open. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. And it will remain open, because it is a requirement of society. Because this government wants to keep hospitals open, it wants to create that health to which the whole society will have access. Our budget is therefore a left-print budget, which makes redistribution of resources in favour of social justice. It is a budget on a realistic basis, not like the previous ones, not like yours. I had a lot more to say, but I can't make it. In any case, then, you should know that the global government scenarios, the scenarios for falling this government, will remain summer night dreams. This government has a four-year horizon. That is why the world supported it and not to restore a political system that destroyed Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr. Barkas. Before I give the floor to the Congressman of the Golden Dawn Mr.Koukoutsi Dimitrios, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and how the House is organised, forty-six students and three educational sessions from the 2nd High Corinth. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Armalene said he didn't like us, but we have to vote on this budget. But why don't we like it? He's got a positive sign, he says. So he doesn't like it, it means something's going wrong. But he said he'd bring the hurting people well. On the one hand, we do not want to vote on him, but we have to vote on him. But why don't you want to vote for him? Anyway, it's "slash me, my dear, to sanctify"! The first budget of the Left Coalition and the Progress of the Right. Regardless, if the Right doesn't want her progress! You were hitting, ladies and gentlemen, two and a half years in the previous House here, beating on the benches: “No, traitors, criminals. What are you doing, etc.’ Now, you're taking it slowly. And you're doing well, 'cause the eggs might be broken. Comrades and comrades of SYRIZA and ANELs, boast unrelentingly. It won't be heard, Kich. Don't worry at all. All these years you have done what you should: you have shredded the ears of the people, dismantled the unions with all these sluts, the silver professional trade unionists, castrated him, "tie knot". And - thank God - with the trousers, hole in underpants, empty pocket, with the current and unpaid loans, you kept it in Europe. Congratulations! What's he doing? He's hiding from the building manager. What if his house is cold? What if he works 12 hours a day for 400 euros a month? He's a European! You put a ten-dollar gasoline, poor Greek, to take you out of work, to your car to get half of the badges. She's fine. Didn't you see the little shop across the street? That's closed. It's me now. Baby, what was the name of that neighbor who jumped off the third floor the other day? While you're thinking about it, you're getting pressure up. Take with the handful the generic psychopharmaceuticals, waiting for the folk to finish, if we can get everything off the side of the road. Open the TV to get Verycos, Gospel and Hadjimetros to light you. What can the channels do to you? And these channels work endlessly for the good of the people. They too have "seawaters", they owe their manifolds, but they make adjustments, five hundred, a thousand euros a month in fifteen thousand instalments. It's bobbles! And you rejoice, looking at the news reports, all the ones who got you this far. "But it is," he says "and the only ones who can save you." That's how they nurtured you, poor guy. Kiss the legs of the MPs of all the parties who have commanded you so far. Pilgrim them. They get tired of all this, but it's done for your own good, because you have to stay European. Seeing the ads you think you live in another country. Now, big companies are here to save you from PPC, from OTE, that will make your future better. But when they put you in the hospital, they put a little cotton on the wound and on top of a selotop, don't worry, at deprivation, it's not that the other materials don't have any. Hold on to ATM, old man. You, the proud youth, they called you "prisoned old man". So you, being the honored old man, just sit here and get the three hundred euros. But it's euro! You'll get it, because it's euro. Maybe it's three hundred, but it's a euro. And if you hear any ills Greek about race, home, family, dignity, don't pay attention. Where should we run now? Take a better look at your little animal, your little house, your scrubbing. That's how they got you. You're a little man. You're a little man. Above all, you must belong to the national cord. And who knows in the future? Maybe your congressman can catch you up. That's it! But you must all admit that in general the Greek is having a good time. Sloppy - he's been wrong with his little debts so far he's taken them off. But come to the villages now the old man, the father, doesn't have what he had aside, they took those too. "And brother," the other one tells you, "Look, the cafes are full. Crisis-crisis, but the cafes are full. We're having fun. We're having a good time!' Looks like it's not the turn of what he's talking about yet. We're having fun, but we've forgotten what life will mean. What have we forgotten? What is the right, what is the real need. We have degraded our quality of life to the level of survival. There's still a front of the few, the ones who have, the ones that hide the stench, which hides the many who drift pointlessly, without knowing where they're going and without knowing what they're doing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And while the death certificate has already been signed, the more time the deceased has been preserved in life, the greater the profits for some. Governments have lost all credibility. And any Prime Minister who works in this system will do it again. This system, it was, it is, and it will be rotten. Finally, apart from patriotism, what else is this, which can motivate the Greeks to save their homeland? Get out of the lethargy? And all of you, here in this Chamber, are desperately looking to find out why the Golden Dawn can withstand, why it is giggling, while all the forces are pushing in the opposite direction. Who's gonna cry for us? The media? The House? Who cried for our dead? Apart from us, their companions and their parents, who else? You have gladly seen their death, I tell you exactly what it is. "Fascians were," that's what you all said. You have underestimated us, ladies and gentlemen, as did the prophets of globalisation. For centuries, however, Nikos Kazantzakis' cheques: "Your first debt, performing your service in the race, is to feel in you all the ancestors. The second is to light up their momentum and continue their work. Your third debt, give to the son the great command to overtake you." Here, then, that our strength is not measured in votes or in parliamentary seats. Things have been said here in this Chamber, which has been taboo for tens of years. Truth has been told. However, things have also been said, something else has been said in this Chamber about 'the egg', he says, 'the snake'. By using your terminology, I will tell you that there is no "snake' egg anymore". The egg has now been incubated. Speaking to the Greek people, I will say one last word. Wake up, poor cry, wake up. Greece is currently not burning our wallets, not burning our homes, burning emotions, hopes, dreams of children and young people. All insurance is on fire. But sooner or later, the short-circuit will come down to the general, and then I'll see you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u347	Thank you Mr. Koukoutsi, MP of the Golden Dawn. Now, he has the floor for Mr Dimas to speak if you have no objection. It's a little change. Mr Dimas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. I am very surprised to hear Mr SYRIZA's colleague saying that the budget that you are going to vote on today does not cut pensions or contributions. Apparently, he hasn't read him, despite the fact that he said it. If it goes on page 123, in Table 3.36, it will clearly see that 1.8 billion euro reductions in pensions, contributions and other social security benefits are calculated. Not even to say about 105 million in social benefits. However, as we have been talking about consensus in recent years, let us remember why we are here today talking about a deficit, a new recession in a period of capital limitation, the great capital control. Let's go back a year in December 2014. While one of Mr. Tsipras, Kuveli and Kammenos demonstrates the necessary political consensus, the President of the Republic is elected and therefore no early elections are held. Meanwhile, cowards begin to look at some signs of recovery of the Greek economy. By February, Greece will take mild measures of around EUR 1 billion. You all remember the e-mail Hardouvelis. The fifth evaluation is therefore successfully completed. The preventive credit line shall be established. We are in the programme of quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank. The government bond spreads are deviating. The country's credit rating is improving. Greece is re-marketing on favourable terms. The growth of the economy in 2015 reaches 2.9% according to EUROSTAT. Unemployment is falling slightly. The stock market responds positively to developments. These successes send a message to investors. Privatisation is moving on. Exports exceed the 7.5% increase that occurred in 2014, as opposed to the 0% forecast this year. Tourism breaks all the records as there is security and certainty. There is a realistic optimism that misery in recent years has come to an end. And optimism is reflected in the trade movement by boosting private consumption. Consumption leads to a further increase in the State's revenues, without any further tax. THE ENVIRONMENT is not repealed. But it is falling slightly, even if 7%, as we anticipated. The solidarity levy is further reduced as budgetary figures allow it. And again there is a primary surplus of about 3%. At the same time, in order not to forget, Mr. Tsipras continued to denounce the Mercedes and the government for treacherous, endo-economic policies and, of course, if he himself came to power, he would increase the tax-free rate to 12,000 euros, restore wages and pensions to the pre-crisis level, abolish HNVIA, retire the third and fourteenth wages and pensions, promise that "no house in the hands of a banker", and, where appropriate, examine red loan write-offs. In short, the markets would dance pentozal, and there would be no chance of a single million for Europeans not to go back. Unfortunately, however, we are describing another Greece, a Greece which would have a substantial and not a pretext of political consensus when it needed it and would not have been bent on unregulated populism. But let us see today's Greece, Greece of the proud and dignified negotiation of Mr. Tsipras, Greece of politics, creative ambiguity and capital control. So let us see the first budget of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks: At best, the unrealistic scenario, we have a return to the recession, a slight recession, both for 2015 and 2016. For 2016 it is estimated 0.7% at best. We have returned to deficits, increased public debt, reduced private consumption and, of course, tax revenues, despite overtaxation, which are the lowest in the last decade. We are destroying the gross formation of capital, the total reversal of exports, unemployment, unemployment and unemployment! The overdue public debts to the private sector have increased over the last 11 months of 58% compared to 2014 and privatisation has not progressed. This dramatic picture, unfortunately, is today's picture. Minister, your ideas, the lack of planning, the endless and pointless negotiations, the pretext referendum, the ruthless withdrawal, all of this destroyed any prospects for the Greek economy in 2015 and 2016. After all, you yourself confess to the text of the budget which we are debating today, that developments last summer have caused serious economic damage. You have lost a great opportunity for the country, and now we hope that you will realise that there is no other opportunity. The economy must calm down and the country must recover its lost credibility. In conclusion, I will use a phrase that our Prime Minister likes: 'In a favoured state, in fact, while dogs are screaming, the caravan is moving on'. Unfortunately, this did not happen in December 2014. The dogs were able not only to shake the caravan off its way forward, but to throw it down and trap it in the gull. That is what we are paying today, and that is what you, ladies and gentlemen, are voting on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u349	Thank you to Christos Dimas, Member of the New Democracy. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Mitafidis Trinidad has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u350	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know tomorrow there is a general strike in the country. I would also like from this position to call on the workers to have universal participation. We do not call on them to become'superior strikers', such as the years of the unspeakable memory of the two-party system of power, which has caused so much calamity in this place. We didn't vote for anti-government laws. And I know it's bothering you. And I would like to say to this hypocrisy recital that we have been living in these days - and not only - by the nostalgics of the bipartite system of power, that I have been thinking about the words of Francis Bacon, in which we owe this terrible phrase, the famous cognitive, 'Knowledge is power' because for education I intend to speak. You know what he said? Praise yourself with courage and something will stay. From this looks like Geebbels was later inspired, "Say, say something will be left." However, the question is not there, ladies and gentlemen. In your lockers there has been an in-depth and substantiated time of pillaging the insurance funds, at least since the 1950s, when the country ruled the "national arch" and the "mixtures" were in prisons. Read it. It's not pro-government. It's from the Single Network of Pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, next Monday, fifty-three years will be completed by the two historic demonstrations - in Thessaloniki and Athens, of course - with a request of '15% for education and not a dowry in Sofia'. I say this because then the student movement succeeded with its struggles and with the reform it had carried out in 1964, to study the poor as well. You, of course, burn off today not to pay VAT to private schools. O tempora, the more! I would therefore like to see what time I have to tell you what we intend to do for public education, which, unfortunately, at the moment, not 15% of the budget for education cannot be devoted, but unfortunately, we are at 2.8%. And I would like to ask our prosecutors, our critics: why have you not made sure that the memorial animal excludes education and health rather than yesterday you came to the Morphics Committee to tell us all those known and unbelievable things? Look at something, we are not asking, as you say, for consensuals in our policy. We have no guilt for our policy, because we are under economic coercion. But we have asked the guilty of the calamity of this place to assume their responsibilities towards the Greek people. Everything else is flammable. And the well-known "pads" in the media make scripts, nostalgic in 1989 and not only. What we are trying to do now is organise a grid of actions and funding in order to activate social solidarity and tackle the phenomenon of extreme poverty at school itself. You're not told by a commentator. I've been out 30-and-a-half years since class. In this context, we have, as you know, introduced it with today's final vote - the institution of strengthening teaching and additional teaching support. They are reopening, as you know, these institutions, which are supposedly directed at children from poorer social groups, who do not have the financial capacity to take care of them. For a few days now, the program "Decatian in school" which is aimed at about eleven thousand students and students who attend schools that have no vacancy. Our effort is to extend this programme from September and with meals to address the harsh impact of the crisis, the assimilation of young children, and even their fainting in the classroom. And I would like to tell you about what the educational movement has fought for years in other countries is an institution, the establishment where we have areas of great poverty to have educational priority areas. In these circumstances, then, the state budget of 2016 holds the funds for education firmly, of course inadequate and very much behind that historic target of 15% for which we fought and were chased, but we are very proud, because the doors of the universities opened. Also, there was provision for not harming the funds for student care, which is so necessary to deal with the consequences of the crisis experienced by students and students. It is necessary to recruit permanent staff at all levels of education. At the same time, the Ministry of Education has called for a significant number of teachers to be included in the planning of priority recruitments for 2016, depending, unfortunately, on the progress of budgetary figures. For the timely and well-functioning of schools in September, some ten thousand permanent teachers have been recruited, as in recent years some thirty thousand teachers have been retired and only a thousand have been recruited. In the dialogue launched yesterday, the Ministry of Education, along with the educational institutions, will draw up a system of intact recruitment. At the same time, we will restore all the injustices that have been done with the fragmentation of the educational body by the monumental policies. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A word, Your Honor, as a reserve - if you like - and I'm coming down from the Step. The deep state of learning will continue to encapsulate the present and the future of society in semi-learning, atomic war and subjection, unless we break down the memorials of calamity. This requires the joint, coordinated struggle of trade unions across Europe to overturn the anti-grassroots measures taken in the name of the stranded cloak of the Stability Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u351	Thank you to SYRIZA MP, Mr Mitafidis Rose. Mrs Jufi Meropi has the floor for six minutes with a request for time respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after eleven months of governance, hard negotiations with creditors and even difficult measures that we have been called upon to vote on, our government is tabling its own budget for the first time. This budget - as others have said - is a realistic and balanced programme for 2016, despite the very unfavourable conditions in which our country is located. It is a follow-up - despite the criticism we are making - of our political proposal and aims to contain expenditure, while incorporating social policies primarily to support those who have been most affected by the previous long-standing Memorandum Policies implemented by the New Democracy and the PASOK. By tabling this budget and overall - as Euclid Tsakalotos rightly said in his speech - we have been trying to tear down the wall that built brick, brick the parties of the centre-left and centre-right over the past twenty years. So the main point is our overall attempt to renegotiate and reverse the burdensome terms of the memorandum, so as to end this unsustainable and unsustainable economic policy over recent years. In other words, the policy of the high primary surpluses and the success of Mr Samaras, who has not only led to a solution to the problem, is an example of economic policy. The model you have carried out, ladies and gentlemen of today's counter-population - in which some of you are insisting on coming back, turning the space time back and ignoring the expressed crisis of the Greek people, in fact seeking, you who are blaming us, arrogant, majestic and insecure dreams of revitalization or even political teratology - led, as the Greek people well knows, to a significant reduction in wages, a 40% reduction in pensions, a massive increase in redundancies, the dismantling of unemployment to 27%, the expansion of precarious and insecure work, the elimination of necessary public services, the demise of public health and education structures by staff with zero recruitment or redundancy in recent years, and thus their deprivation and the eruption of child poverty to 28%. So our government has assumed power in a fully drugged environment both internally and abroad. It was negotiated, lost in a number of points, but won in a series of others. It achieved a primary surplus of 0.5% for 2016 equivalent to 850 million, when New Democracy and PASOK were committed to a surplus of 4.5%, i.e. 7 billion. The new budget, with low budgetary targets of 7.5% of GDP, can potentially disguise the Greek economy from the vicious cycle of the pre-cyclical fiscal policy that was aggressed in Greece and led to a background of the recession. The 2015 recession was projected to 2.3%, and now expected to be zero. In addition, expenditure should be reduced by combating corruption - already old and new tax evasion lists are being examined - as well as saving resources mainly from cuts in operating costs, but without affecting the operation of services. And, of course, this must be seen in the light of the overall strategy followed by the government and its financial staff and includes the recapitalisation of the banks - the necessary condition, that is, to ensure the stability of the financial system - gradual growth by direct action and the negotiation of debt regulation and write-down, which will begin after the end of the assessment. These are the key steps of our Government towards a short-term roadmap to allow recovery and exit from the crisis. The 2016 budget, however, as I have already said, differs from the previous ones because it incorporates elements that are the primary objective of this government, namely, the implementation of social policy in favour of the weak with an emphasis on health and social welfare. For this reason, it provides for increases in funds of EUR 823 million for unemployment, the response to the humanitarian crisis, the extension of the minimum guaranteed income, the financial strengthening of public health structures, the access of unsafe and over-aged to public health care. And this is the sign of the left-wing government. For the first time after five years there are health recruitments, and there is an increase in funding in hospitals by 300 million euros. In addition, there is provision for the review and rationalisation of the health supply system in hospitals and EEAS. Even the reasoned retention of pharmacy expenditure and expenditure for categories of private hospitals and diagnostic examinations is important. At the same time, there is provision for intervention in the control of prescribing and upgrading of the electronic prescribing system for monitoring health expenditure in real time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not celebrating this difficult budget, which, despite the serious effort which is being made consistently, is still the strengths of an already tired society. There are many things we have to claim together with society and improve them. We hope that some of the budget regulations, the parallel programme, in total our planning, will give us space and time to be able to present our development programme in 2016. And there we will be appraised, if, that is, we will be able to propose different exit policies from the multiformal crisis that we are experiencing. It is obvious that there are also things that are outside our concept and choice in the global economy and in the association of forces in the global policy that will affect the future of this country. But it is worth making a coordinate and determined effort and giving all the battles to seek an alternative at European level, in today's barbaric, unfortunately, reality of predatorial capitalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi Merope. We are going with the MP of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr. Theoharopoulos. I would ask that Mr Santorinius be prepared so that we don't waste time. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget, beyond the determination of a state's revenue and expenditure, reflects the government's political plan. The first budget of SYRIZA - ANEL is therefore characterised by the absence of political planning and development objectives. The print is summarised as follows: Overtaxation. Return of the country to the recession. Increase in public debt. Additional financial measures. In particular, the main economic elements of the budget show fiscal derailment and the primary deficit first - first for 2015 and the return of the economy to the recession in 2016, which is estimated at 0.7% of GDP. The return to primary government deficits and recession is only due to tax measures in 2015, which amounted to more than EUR 1 billion. And this account is constantly growing. As far as debt is concerned. It mentions the further increase in public debt to 187,8% of GDP for 2016, when in February the European Commission estimated it to be 159.2% of GDP, which is 30% higher. The debt nipple is even tightening up for the country and if it does not finally drown it, then it will surely keep it trapped in tough commitments. It is noteworthy, moreover, that the decision that you now refer to in the negotiations and refers to a new restructuring of the Greek public debt is the November 2012 decision, which was talking about a reduction in interest rates and about a time-lag transfer, if primary surpluses are achieved and there is a macroeconomic balance. With your policy, there is a risk that both the existence of primary surpluses and the macroeconomic equilibrium will be called into question and, therefore, the restructuring of the public debt even by the November 2012 decision. In this context, attention should be paid to the following year. Let me not remind you, of course, that in all previous years you have been talking about decommissioning most of the public debt, talking about burdensome and shameful debts, when we said that this is not possible and what must be done is restructuring it with a timely transfer of bonds and a reduction in interest rates. You've forgotten all that. The question is whether you can currently effectively negotiate the restructuring of the public debt forecasted at almost 190% of GDP for 2016. The cost of restoring budgetary equilibrium is estimated firstly at EUR 7.2 billion in total for 2015 and 2016, EUR 4.2 billion for revenue, EUR 3 billion for the two years. It is obvious, however, that it will be bigger. So to return to the primary surpluses, the additional measures that the citizens will suffer to become the primary primary surplus will be EUR 5.7 billion, increased by EUR 1.4 billion compared to the previous month's preliminary draft. These measures are estimated at EUR 2.5 billion on the spending side and EUR 3.2 billion on the revenue side. And when we talk about revenue, we're mostly talking about taxes. The direct and indirect taxes of EUR 44,7 billion are also increased compared to EUR 42,7 billion for 2015 and fully confirm the anti-development and collection nature of the budget. At a time when people's incomes have reached nadir, public-private employees are being strangled, retired, but also middle-stage. How? By increasing VAT rates, increasing the rates of corporate income tax, increasing the rates of special solidarity levy, increasing the rates of insurance premiums, increasing the advance payment of income tax to legal persons, increasing the rates of income tax on farmers and the account continues. In other words, the budget gives the basis for overtaxation. Wrong. It takes cost savings arrangements - and I am not talking about wage costs, but about wastefulness - in many sectors and not continuous overtaxation measures that are both unfair and economically ineffective because the citizens no longer have much more to offer. Ladies and gentlemen, social justice remains only in theoretical terms. Unemployment continues to remain at the same levels as in the 2016 budget. What social cohesion are we talking about when there is no comprehensive plan to combat unemployment? How will insurance be sustainable when these levels of unemployment exist? What social cohesion does the government talk about when a few days before the road was opened in property auctions and the protection of the first thousands of borrowers ceased? You call for the support of the social state and I have heard you defend this social budget. Really? The Prime Minister in his programme statements in September said that 'a pivotal pillar of what we call a social state is also the one to strengthen labour, combat unemployment and support social security. However, unemployment, for which there is no additional programme with targeted development measures, will move at the same, high levels, according to the budget, when the European Commission predicted a significant reduction in the rate in February. Social security institutions are being assessed and there is a deterioration in insurance contributions, pension costs, unpaid liabilities. This is translated into a reduction in main and supplementary pensions, a reduction in one-off contributions, a 50% reduction in the OGA contributions, a reduction in the heating allowance and a drastic reduction in the beneficiary CSR by increasing income criteria, which were sometimes one of your own red lines. Therefore, the public's due obligations towards the private sector are also growing. At the general government level, these have now formed around EUR 6 billion. Only vague commitments are made for their future, gradual repayment. In relation to the privatizations for which a lot of discussion has been held, and in August's famous negotiation, the target of 2 billion euros is utopia. Where exactly is optimism coming from as high revenues reflected in the budget from the use of public property, when this year, 2015, the revenues are estimated at EUR 268 million with projections for EUR 557 million? So the government does not currently have an integrated plan to overcome the Memorandum of Understanding. It implements them completely manually and in an inefficient negotiation. There's delusional. And yet another illusion is the implementation of this budget. He's practically inexcusable. Ladies and gentlemen, the question arises reasonably where the government's optimism comes from, when the recession right now hits us again at the door (0.7% predicted for 2016), when one of our three fellow citizens who are currently out is in unemployment and in order to have an integrated programme to combat unemployment needs a comprehensive plan. We can't hear it. One year now we are not even listening to the integrated plan to combat unemployment, there is no coordination, there is no plan that the different areas of policy will contribute to this very issue. We have so far not heard a plan to combat unemployment, as has the productive plan of the country, which is not described in the budget. It does not describe how it will be done, in which areas of policy, which will be directed to the NRP, where the changes will take place. There are no descriptions of all these issues. There is, therefore, no plan beyond the factual nature of the overtaxation measures. Ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly stressed that the country will not go beyond the crisis if there is not immediately an integrated national development plan, eutrophication of interventions in all areas of policy, rationalisation and reduction of expenditure to stop over-taxation measures that stifle the economy and lead to a vicious cycle of recession and unemployment. With an unscrupulous economic and social policy, with this without a political plan, anti-development budget can only be done is to erase whatever hope exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u355	Thank you to the Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios, Member of SYRIZA for six minutes. I would ask you, Mr. Colleague, to respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, otherwise I had plans to start. However, while listening to the previous speaker, I would like to say that you are always talking about a primary deficit. The budget includes a primary surplus of 0.5%. You are also talking about additional measures that we should take. Do you forget that with the primary surplus of 4.5%, which you predict, we had to take further measures - not these - of an additional 7 billion, creating a greater budgetary adjustment, greater budgetary suffocation for the Greek people and the Greek society? You are telling us about a November 2012 decision, which is a wish. There's no substance at all. You forget that we have already restructured, that in the next few years we had to pay 53 billion and increased the maturity of the 30-three years with better interest rates. Do you forget that? Or are you forgetting Mr Costello's statement that in February we are launching a substantial debate on the debt, with a timetable, not with a wish? For us, therefore, this budget is the first sample of the left-wing government. And, contrary to what you say, for us the new year is the starting point of the definitive exit from the crisis and the memoranda. We said through our negotiation we'd put an end to the catastrophe ring. The financial results of 2015, which everyone said would be a catastrophic year, disprove the cinders, who in this Chamber swinged our finger and predicted a great recession and social and economic disaster. The budget we are debating today has clear class and redistributive characteristics. It is characterized mainly by three elements: its redistributive character, realism - unlike previous budgets which were wishful - and its development perspective. Because in our view, it is not enough to manage our misery or to reproduce the crisis for the benefit of a few and alike. Because for us growth means investment with serious investors and not with crows, which will create new decent jobs. This is also reflected in the conservative estimates of the budget, which provides for a reduction in unemployment to 22%. Our policies aim to stabilise the Greek economy, to create the conditions for sustainable development and to restore the position and international credibility of our country. Our priority is to draw up a new development law with key objectives to increase employment, innovation, the extroversion of businesses, the reindustrialisation of the country, which has been de-industrialised in particular in recent years and, more generally, to assist production of high-value products and services. Another tool to stimulate employment and provide liquidity to small and medium-sized enterprises is the channelling of financial resources from multilateral development banks. Of course, we must not forget that the Ministry of Development has already taken action to set up a council, which will draw up the country's new development plan, which will be ready by spring. We all agree today that the policies pursued by post-policy and, in particular, the last five years, have led to the deindustrialisation of the country. The role of the State in stimulating industrial and craft activity must be regulatory and create a safe and friendly environment for new investments. Soon, on the one hand, we move on to eliminate bureaucracy by having a substantial reform of the licensing of undertakings and, on the other, to establish organised industrial and craft industries. In 2015, despite the adverse economic situation, it was a time station in upgrading our tourist products. I mention numbers: Revenue of EUR 15.5 billion, a history of arrivals of 26 million tourists and an extension of the tourist season. Not all of this happened at random. They were made with a stable and consistent policy of opening up new markets and constantly trying to increase market shares in our traditional tourist tanks. This effort will continue in 2016 with the main objectives of further extending the tourist season and the continued increase in the share in the global tourism market. At the same time, our aim is to promote alternative forms of tourism and that is why an autonomous Alternative Tourism Directorate has been established in the respective Ministry. The Public Investment Programme for 2016 reaches 6.75 billion, of which 6 billion are European Union resources, while only 750 million relate to projects to be financed from national resources. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. We thus implement our programme commitment to boost growth by leveraging the Public Investment Programme. In this context, we will emphasise the closure of the NRP 2007-2013, but above all the launch and implementation of the new period's programmes. The new ESDP will be forward-looking and will aim in particular at meeting social needs, strengthening employment and small and medium-sized enterprises, implementing projects to protect the environment and the major infrastructure that will give growth to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget submitted by the government is the first after many years that implements the need for productive reconstruction in the country and for social protection of the low incomes of society. We invite you to overcome party claws and support the change of page marked for the country with this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr. Nektarios Santorinio, MP of SYRIZA. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth year I have taken part in the debate on the state budget. But it is the first year that there is a gloomy picture of the country and the citizens. I have heard and heard the majority colleagues trying to make the white fish, baptizing the fish, trying to convince themselves, because no one else is convinced. Last year this time the country had completed a great effort. Errors have also been made along the way to this effort, if you like. However, this effort has been effective, it has been yielding. The country needed to take the last steps, close the evaluation and join the preventive support line. Can you compare Greece of November 2014 to Greece of November 2015, with everything that has happened in the last 10 months? With the toughest memorial you brought in? With the Capital Controls, bank elapsing and all that comes in the next few months? The debt, which was starting to fall, with the new memorandum that you brought now reach 200% of GDP. The public debt we received in 2012 at EUR 9.6 billion. In almost two years, in December 2014, we had reduced them to EUR 3.8 billion. In other words, we had paid debts of EUR 6 billion. It was money missing from the market. Within the ten months of SYRIZA government - INE public debts have exceeded 6 billion. Do you have any reasonable explanation for this, apart from the fact that during the supposed negotiation you made, before you brought us the toughest memorandum, you wiped out all the state's cash reserves and broke all the buttons to pay the instalments, when you could have closed the assessment, kept the cash reserves, had you not dissolved the banking system and, above all, had you not led to a new memorandum? Do you have any reasonable explanation why the country has returned to deficits? Why did the country return to the recession and even with a higher index than the one you originally predict? Let me remind you that 2014 was first closed at a positive growth rate of 0.7% and in 2015, more than 2.5% was expected, and now forecasts, even for 2016, include a recession. What happened with the banks, ladies and gentlemen? The Capital Controls, this unprecedented situation that the country has never experienced, how were they provoked? To deceive the citizens during the referendum, you said at first the lenders closed the banks. The truth, however, is that the bleeding of the deposits from the election period of January, but mostly from the early days of your government, led the banks to the limits of the collapse. And the capital controls and the closed banks were your decision. This is the truth and not the low-level conspiracy approaches we hear. Some were threatening us with "Goudi" and hangers, when we took the responsibility of keeping the country up, making difficult decisions, but at the same time bringing results, proving that the sacrifices of the citizens were rendering, they took place. We will not follow the path of populism. However, we are not going to remain silent on the question of banks, on the great damage suffered by the Greek public and the economy. Through the capital controls and the constant bleeding of deposits the need to recapitalise banks was created, a need that was not in existence a year ago. This is your achievement with many, however, side losses. We will be looking for responsibilities for all of this, because there are responsibilities, because we have to end the myth of the supposed negotiation. What kind of negotiation was it that you did for the bank recapitalisation process? What kind of negotiation is this when the Greek State lost over 40 billion euros? What kind of recapitalisation process is this, when the value of public shares in banks a year ago was EUR 25 billion, and today it is about EUR 500 million, when small shareholders are excluded and damaged, when only foreign investors are involved in the recapitalisation, which means that the control of the Greek banks, but also by extension of the economy, are now in foreign hands? Why didn't you do the simple and self-evident thing? And I address the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Why has the Financial Stability Fund not put a threshold on the price of shares in order to increase equity and recapitalisation? We would not have reached these degrading prices in this way. You didn't predict it? I find it difficult to accept that there is so much naiveness and a lack of basic knowledge and welfare. Indeed, Minister, have you asked a question in the Securities Committee about who the new shareholders are, who bought the banks' shares in the recapitalisation process, or are you not interested? How many of them represent or represent distress funds? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough that you dissolved the ILO, but also in the budget there are no provisions for revenue from tax evasion, the fight against smuggling and the extension of the use of plastic money and electronic payments. At the same time, there is a huge tax burden on direct and, above all, indirect taxes, mainly affecting all citizens. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] You're targeting the farmers. Apart from increasing their insurance contributions to the OGA, from which you expect to collect EUR 102 million, you have deceived them by taxing agricultural aid, while preparing a tax raid on non-existent income. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Lead to dead end and shrink the primary sector, small and medium-sized farmers and producer. Be prepared to vote for all this on your own. Do not seek accomplices because you will not, at least in the New Democracy. We will all talk about this when you bring the tax bill and with examples of what was happening and what was true in other European countries, so that everyone can see what kind of negotiation you have been dealing with. Ladies and gentlemen, this government majority is sure that it will not bring any more budget. And here we are, to see who's confirmed and who's not. You want to 'finish' us, as you said with the charismatic divisive rhetoric of hatred. Unfortunately, however, we are not done for you. Unfortunately for you, the lies are over. We will vote against the budget. The country needs a new national plan and it is the responsibility of all democratic and creative forces to shape it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. The 2016 budget escalates the barbaric anti-linguistic policy against the working class, the wide popular strata of cities and the countryside. It loads on the backs of the people's families the consequences of the third, left memorial, measures to be added to the entire anti-popular arsenal of the previous memoranda that SYRIZA would abolish. You apply a deep class policy that leads to large parts of the populace in absolute, extreme poverty, while on the other hand creates a source of profit for capital, for 'healthy entrepreneurship' as you call it. Through the 2016 budget you are attacking poor farms completely. You're giving her the charismatic shot. You are bringing measures that literally reap the poor income of farmers, farmers and fishermen. We're going to have a massive violent breakthrough. A large part of the poor farmers and farmers will not survive the new anti-agricultural storm. He will be forced to leave land, production, herds, to gather in a few hands, in capitalist farms. The budget and the new CAP 2015-2020 are tools in this direction. And today's coexistence, like the previous ones, triumphs for the 19 billion, which are coming until 2020. But this money, like the previous ones, will go to farmers, to businesses active in the agricultural sector and not to support small producers and infrastructures, which they need. Let's see the gifts that the 2016 budget specializes and implements the commitments and measures of the third memorandum. The measures included in the budget headings for the agricultural sector are as follows: we have a reduction in the appropriations for the Ministry of Rural Development and Food at a rate of 15%. Of course, there seems to be a small increase in the funds in the Public Investment Programme. However, this is due to the juncture, having given an extension to the NSRF 2007-2013 and to the advances of the new NSRF 2014-2020 and these two meet together cumulatively. However, these packages - and today and the previous ones - go to aid, to entrepreneurs, to aquaculture, to rural tourism and to processing. Peanuts go to the poor farmhouses. And what they were going to work like cheese in the light of the European Union's agricultural policy and the Greek governments. But to come to the gifts that the left government continues to give to poor farms. We have from the increase in the advance payment of the tax of 79 million, from the abolition of the VAT refund of 13 million, from the increase in the tax rate of 32 million, from the increase in the premiums in the OGA of 102 million. And listen, you previous speakers, both of the New Democracy and of the PASOK: this is due to a law of your own that had to go to farmers on the next scale. SYRIZA's gifts haven't come yet, where there will be triple of insurance contributions. There we will have hundreds of thousands of farmers who are going to meet the two hundred fifty thousand who are uninsured. So don't condemn, don't say they're the measures of the current government. It's your government and SYRIZA's measures are coming later. However, we have, anyway - and this shows the demolition of social security which leads to it being reciprocated - the reduction of the state expenditure in OGA of EUR 145 million, we have a reduction in subsidies, we have a reduction in the funds for the early pensions of farmers of EUR 320, we have a reduction in allowances to the ELGA, although poor farmers and farmers pay unfavourable carpets. According to the draft budget, there is an increase in taxes and contributions and at the same time a reduction in pensions, a reduction in subsidies. In other words, we will have a total of over 270 million minus agricultural income. And as if it weren't all that, yesterday you sent them another gift. You sent them 320 million, loaded by poor farmers, which is also the responsibility of the previous governments. They are the fines of the European Union. Are these, gentlemen, the equivalents? Are these the parallel programs? All you have left is to send them and call them, lead them to court, get sentenced for robbery, go with the hoods and break into the banks the poor farmers. The left government, while tightening the nipple on poor farms, while targeting people's homes, which is caring for the irresponsible limit of wages and pensions, helps people, while demolishing social security, keeps the provocative privileges to shipowners with tax exemptions. It regulates with favorable settings and relieves businessmen from fines of more than one million by adjusting the hundreds of doses. This is what the SYRIZA - ANEL Government reserves for workers, poor farmers, pensioners, young people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. They mustn't have any delusion. There is no room for expectation that there can be a solution within the capitalist development path. With any policy mix within the walls of the twilight alliance, as long as the growth criterion is the profitability and competitiveness of business groups, the worker cannot expect a substantial improvement in his life. The people will continue to go bankrupt either in the crisis or in the development because the anti-grassroots measures, old and new, have come to stay. They have no end because this is the strategy of the European Union of monopolies. However, the current government of SYRIZA offers invaluable services to the system. He can do everything he couldn't, and he wouldn't dare do the other bourgeois forces. A deeper aim is to incorporate the radicalisation of people's forces, to keep the people passively in the corner, blurred by the changes of intimidation and delusion, to wait for a positive result, further lowering its expectations, lowering its demand. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No waiting, no tolerance for the people's forces! The one-way is one: the organization of the struggle to mark the real opponent, the monopolies, their state, the every urban government that serves it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u361	Put a perfect one on it. You're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u362	I shall conclude, Mr President. In order for this struggle to have a real effect, it must start from the requirement for immediate recovery of losses, to pay the monopolies the crisis, to aim to break with this policy, to fight for the other path of development, where the people will be at the wheel of power, with socially integrated means of production, with scientific centralised planning and labour control, with the release of the country from the European Union and NATO, with unilateral debt deletion, not to pay a penny of the people from this debt, because it is not theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u363	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd Corinth High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Marcus Catherine has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget comes at a juncture crucial to both the Greek economy and the political system as a whole. Behind his arithmetic are really difficult decisions, decisions normally at high political cost. Because the government is looking for supporters, we need to make it clear from the outset that the government is ruling and making decisions and opposition plays its part. I'm sorry to say it, but the government has no enthusiasm in its role. Mr Drasakis had said in any case that "we must finally govern". Let me say that if the current political system, and in particular the government in this regard, wants to govern, it must learn to govern and include the political costs in its programme. If the old system was devalued, it is because it included politicians who only shared money through budgets, of course, and they cost the future for the state and the whole. Shouldn't we leave that behind? So the difficult decisions are majority decisions that are in place and at the end, ladies and gentlemen, we are all judged. The 2016 budget provides for a primary government deficit of 0,25% of GDP in 2015 and a primary surplus of 0.5% of GDP in 2016. The forecast for real GDP is considerably limited in relation to the preliminary draft some time ago. For this miserable economic stagnation, only 8.4% of investment is accounted for. I think that is the most important point to be made. The government continues to have ideological strangles. It has no enthusiasm for any positive aspects of the stabilisation programme and it insists on making a reservation - not to say hostility - the only way to increase income, that is to say, that the positive multiplier of income operates, that unemployment is reduced, that the real economy should go ahead. I do not know any other country in the world where the government has such a reservation on entrepreneurship in building new jobs for the world. If the adventure of 2015 proved to be awkward, it is that we must fall into the sea and swim. We do not live, of course, in a perfect world, but we must adapt and compete internationally, otherwise the future for the country does not exist. The budget provides for the saving of resources for the insurance of 0,25% of GDP for 2015 and 1% of GDP for 2016. This issue has sparked political developments and parapolitical gossip powered by a new system, while it is desperately old-fashioned. I'm addressing the government. The government must rule, as we have said, and take whatever cost to it. That's what democratic logic says. As for the responsibilities I would like to say again - I will be honest, if not raw - they are largely in the last decades of governance, with the over-the-board service of voters, with fat pensions in age production - even productive ones. I may be surprised to say that it is also the creditors who accepted a 2010 law, which contained provocative arrangements for women in the fifty who are retired because of young children, but who on the first day of retirement could have been thirty-one years old. All this does not deny the fact that Mr Tsipras' government must indeed drink all the bitter glass of any adjustments, particularly reductions. Besides, the government put that hand in her as well. The disastrous 2015 deteriorated the structural characteristics of the insurance, so the system has now deteriorated considerably. The government has also occasionally criticised a mixture of fiscal policy that it currently applies with the budget, i.e. increasing tax burdens while maintaining primary expenditure at the same level from 2014 to 2016, which risks the recession being greater than expected due to the negative multipliers, as the economists say. I won't go into details. I would point out the macroeconomic risks of this policy which are already visible. nominal GDP in 2016 is expected to decline by 0.7%. In 2015 the general government debt is expected to reach 316,5 billion. This amount includes a capital of 10 billion for the recapitalisation of banks. However, after the bank’s capital increases have been completed, this amount appears to be lower. We are going to say that this is a good thing. I would remind you, however, that of course the famous, proud and dignified policy, that of the incredibly irresponsible, provocative man - I am of course talking about the former Minister of Finance - has resulted in almost all the assets of the state being dismantled. Taxees, bondholders and shareholders had invested, so the damage we have all suffered today is a multibillion euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u365	You have twenty-four seconds for the last attack, Mrs. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u366	This certainly does not seem too much in the voters' pockets now, but it will soon be political and any other responsibilities that I hope will be attributed to the future. Let me also remind the banks' terrible wars that all the infiltration of Greek businesses in the Balkans was based on the financing of the Greek banks that went along with our companies in the Balkans. We all have to figure out what damage has been done. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope the Minister for Finance does not tell us that he too does not believe in the budget as in the programme, but is nevertheless recommending and voting for it. The government needs to overcome itself, to overcome the strangles, to overcome this miserable version of the Greek economy that the budget today presents, to see visible signs of recovery in the absolutely crucial issues of investment, work and development of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, too. Mr. Morfidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago our discussions concerned the country's exit from the euro, the chances of bankruptcy and social destruction. This painful reality has been shaped by the chronic inadequacies of the Greek political system and administration, a reality which has become nightmareous through the choices of the PASOK and the New Democracy governments. At the expense of this reality, SYRIZA chose to support the country's course within the Eurozone and pursue a difficult political change through a way of understanding with lenders. This choice wasn't our heart. It has been a forced and realistic adaptation to a path in which we see prospects, the prospect of the gradual decapitation of the country from economic stranglerism and the avoidance of the destruction of social structures. Today we are discussing in the public debate the actions which can shift the country's political potential to a level of understanding, not cooperation, but understanding. This is the first step to understand the current situation which may lead us to agree on what we need to do in the future. This debate cannot be flat. She'll have her good times and bad times. But to have the opportunity to recover part of the lost credibility of the political system, it is imperative that our dialogue is not deaf. The budget submitted by our Government has some specific features. Firstly, it is balanced and realistic. It was not tabled to be revised in the first few months of the year, but to keep this on its own is important because it contributes to the cultivation of a climate of stability. Secondly, it changes perception of burden-sharing and any cuts are targeted. There are no horizontal cuts in wages and pensions, as we have had in the last few years' budgets. Thirdly, for the first time the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion is not simply expressed as numbers in the form of a wish. It is expressed through targeted controls which already have a positive effect on the funds of the state since the return of stolen goods, on the lists of outraged tax evasion and corruption, on the fight against smuggling, on triangular transactions, on cartels, on black money, on the collection of VAT, on the use of public property, on the use of the property, on the use of electronic transactions, and for all these reasons it will be an important tool in the performance of social justice. Fourthly and more importantly, it is a socially, classic budget. After many years it has come to support the social state, health, education, the fight against unemployment, to support those affected by the implementation of the memorandums. It comes to support the social state, not to demolish social structures and rights, and this is because it redistributes public resources, with a view to protecting the financially weak, sustainable development and social policies with an emphasis on health. And here is the essence of a government's budget which does not just want to be said, but it is left. That is why it is institutionalising the card for the fight against the humanitarian crisis because the left does not think of any citizens living locked up, reconnecting electricity, because the left does not think of any citizens having no heat, the rental allowance, because the left is hurt when there are homeless people, the arrangements for the disposal of agricultural products to the victims of the crisis, because the left is cancelled when there are people who are hungry and, of course, the Health Card for the uninsured, because the left does not think of any citizens having no access to health. Global health coverage of the population requires the upgrading of the public health system, with zero recruitment to date, by improving the on-call system in the RIS, by means of arrangements for the operation of the EMAS, by organising the primary health system, by interventions in the medicine, the creation of a national pharmaceutical store and the strengthening of the EOF, the IFET, and a new administrative system for hospitals. That is why, in the budget submitted, the social budget for the financing of the ERC on-call and overtime is increased, the humanitarian crisis, the ESS, the benefits of tackling extreme poverty. It shall relaunch the financing of the State’s due obligations, with priority for health and social security. The provision of hospitals by EUR 300 million and the Procurement Committee is increased by 36 million. Uninsured over-ages with 62 million euros are being subsidised. A full coverage of the planned recruitment for hospitals for permanent and subsidiary staff is foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget includes tough measures, arising from the lenders' prerequisites and signed by all parties that approved the July agreement. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. However, despite the fact that it has been designed within suffocating data, it can respond to the government's priorities for social justice as long as we work against the parallel governmental programme in its final form. Under this condition, the worst is behind us. Society must feel that we are listening to it carefully and that we are working for it and for our decapitation from the circumcision of the memoranda. This budget is a step in this direction, and the Greek society needs such steps that constantly change the question of everyday life, first in support of the social state and stability and then in development and prosperity. And only those who insist on walking in the dark support the old walk and the wrong recipe. In today's economic conditions we are trying to deal with problems that have been accumulated for forty years and to build up in a period of suffocation, which has been unfolded in periods of fat cows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u369	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u370	Just one phrase, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting to find the grass again, as the poet says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u371	Mrs. Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come when we are discussing the first budget of our first left-wing government, yes, the one that would tear up the memorials and, allegedly, social sensitivity was talking about defending the economic weaknesses. So what do we have in front of us? We have a budget that is socially unfair, without a trace of developmental logic, which will ultimately prove ineffective and ineffective. Of course the current government, with a lot of left gold dust, is trying to hide the truth. That's what nobody gets into you, but the deception has its limits, and I'm explaining. The country returns to recession, which will even be deeper after the revised data of the Statistical Authority. This responds to the previous colleague, Mr Morfidis, who said that the assumptions to which he referred are not already applicable. The economy, despite the additional measures, returns to primary deficits after two years of primary surpluses. The overdue public debts have already increased by 60% in the budget - in response to my previous colleague again - there is no provision for repayment. The additional measures will be in excess of six billion, ladies and gentlemen. The VAT rates are increasing. Income tax rates are increasing, rent taxes, taxes on farmers. Reductions in wages and pensions. The ESS is abolished. Even the sums allocated to deal with the humanitarian crisis are reduced. Half the heating oil allowance is reduced, Minister. Here I would remind you that the last New Democracy budget for the heating allowance was about EUR 300 million. And then you said the world would die out of the cold. Now, with the 100 and 150 million you're giving, what's he gonna do? Now he won't die. So the list doesn't end. At the same time, the government's acts in the field of immigration are poor and this, despite the budget formalities for the multiple benefits for the Greek economy, with the public debt growing, increased by nine points in the last year. Are you provoking the public debt to tell us after that you've cut it? Math, zero on the clay. Remember that a few months ago you bailed out against the privatizations, talking about a sale of public property, and then accepted them, but you argued that revenues should not be directed towards debt. The unreliability of the Left and at this level throughout its greatness. Of course, there is also the big question of the new recapitalisation of the Greek banks, with capital needs created in 2015. No one doubts that. This is a recapitalisation that, after government delays and recurring, added great costs to the public and Greek taxpayers. Disappear the good results of the previous recapitalisation and get Greek small shareholders out of the game. He zeroed, in essence, the value of the shares of the Greek banks and led them to the hands of the foreign banks, to those that you called "parallels" and "tocops". Be sure, ladies and gentlemen, some will be answering for this recapitalization very soon. And the ministers of government! One brings an amendment to return, he says, our farmers the money they took sometime. And then it says that this amendment will not apply. It admits in advance that it will be unlawful. Incredible things! The second brings an amendment to increase management positions in a public body, that is to say for the rest of us who cares? And the third resigns, he says, that we did not fully and quickly implement the Memorandum. Get your hands up here! Forensics, I'm not a psychiatrist! [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, because I have two more attacks! I've heard the other from Mr. Mitafidis' colleague. Mr Mitafidis called on the people to react, to participate, says, in the strike against these budgets and measures, while he votes 'yes'? Unless he votes 'no' and is one of the 11 of them that Leventis says. And the country's Prime Minister deals with Arabic sayings about dogs and caravans. But I will remind him of a Greek proverb. The road is open and the dogs are tied. They're tied and they're not screaming, Mr. Tsipras. Go ahead, then. Apply the budget. Check the wages and the pensions. Dissolve the social state and the private sector. Who's holding you? What do you want from us? If you're looking for consensus and apostates, you won't find us. Look elsewhere for useful idiots. That's what you've been doing in the last few days. For all these reasons, it is understandable that I am voting against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u373	Thank you. Mr. Darkness has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget and culture, economic and art and creation, which are incompatible with each other, but which must coexist. The city exists because of and for the sake of the citizen, and the citizen creates and enjoys culture. It is therefore an obligation for the orderly state to financially take care of this important pillar of a state, a society of a people. Arts to bloom, but also to reach their final recipients - the people - also need support from the common fund, namely the state grant. Unfortunately, over the last few years in our country, we have experienced the degradation of the state of cultural good, the depreciation of creators and the dramatic loss of support to be given to the cultural process. After 2004, various exemptions concerning the state-owned art and state-owned creators were invented, which had to be thrown into fire. They are the same politicians who, until then, gave their party friends an unsuccessful grant. With the unscrupulous argument of the state-owned culture, there was the opportunity, along with the truly unworthy, to deprive the necessary oxygen to both the pandemics: state tents and orchestras, the Art Theatre and others in the long list. The amphitheater that Spiros Evangelatos closed, you closed it. In the period of the economic crisis, things have, of course, deteriorated dramatically. With a sum that no one is satisfied with this year's budget, it is time to organize things from the outset, to organize a new cultural charter that will not only include support from the state to creators and creators, but will also ensure that the state's revenues from the cultural sector are increased so that this money returns to culture again. Because the great demand is that the state grant operates as a basis and as a propulsion force for profit. In the years when I had the opportunity to run a theatre, a legal person, the PPC Roumelis, this is what we have done with our partners, to step on the grant and multiply revenues. Here, however, in the big landscape, in the state, someone has to organize this at last. So, positively, we appreciate what the Ministry of Culture plans for this very purpose, for the more orderly functioning of the services and structures that work for the success of cultural production and process. I'll just mention a few. Reconstruction of the institutional framework for donations, with a view to creating flexible methods for attracting, accepting and rapidly managing private cultural promotions, which do not exist. There is not one of those who is in favour of an economy that encourages these actions. There wasn't. So this arrangement will offer a strong blood donor, in parallel with the state's obligations. The Archaeological Resources Fund has always been an important source of revenue. Having been abandoned in his fate by previous governments and desperately left behind in an organization, he fails to achieve the maximization of the results he could give. Reconstruction of its functions and modernisation will increase traffic, as well as revenues in visiting archaeological sites and museums with electronic sales, electronic tickets at last and increase the availability of sellers of items and excavators. Along with the targeted extension of the extended hours of museums and archaeological sites, the increase of revenue for the public and stakeholders is ensured. The aim of the Ministry's cooperation with large cultural organizations abroad cannot be carried out on a case-by-case basis, without a plan and without a specific visible objective, as has been done so far. An extrovert cultural policy is therefore being organised and, following on, with exchanges and periodic reports, with the mutual establishment of cultural centres, such as the one between Greece and the People's Republic of China. The promotion and development of the physical and intangible cultural heritage of our place by using new technologies will finally contribute to the development of cultural tourism, depending on economic results. I consider it positive that the promotion of a flexible legislative framework is also appreciated in order to finally achieve the attraction of modern audiovisual producers in Greece. Unfortunately, ESDP programmes for 2007-2013, for days of New Democracy and PASOK, have been delayed extremely. We consider the effort made to accelerate them by the government, as well as the launch and implementation of programmes in the new period 2014-2020. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I know that you value culture as an Aetolo-Carnana, so please wait a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u375	Yeah, except at some point the curtain's dropping, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u376	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the budget under discussion as a budget with special attention to strengthening the social area, which puts forward a series of actions that will provide resources, oxygen, care in the field of culture, a field of privilege for our country. It is a high sensitivity field for the Greek people and his historic course. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of this budget as a budget for the change of the landscape in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say, because I was a witness, when SYRIZA MP said Thursday's reaction, because he said a New Democracy MEP that he called the world in reaction, that in no response he called the world. He simply called on them to strike safely, knowing that the private sector cannot strike, because he begs for his post and for his work. He also knows that they do not completely control all the associations of civil servants. That's what he did to no reaction he called. Of course, I understand the pain that SYRIZA passes through such measures and budgets, but with this pressure that you say you feel, you should normally resign, you should re-elect with a greater percentage of the Greek people, you should resign and do that until the resistance that the Greek people want to pass and showed it by the referendum. With regard to the budget discussed by SYRIZA - ANEL, what's the budget he's talking about? Will it provide and plan State revenue and expenditure, as predicted by illegal immigrants, and how it manages them now? The Golden Dawn was all confirmed. So the President of Idomenis in Kilkis - which I would stress is not Golden Dawn - and the inhabitants of the region - who too are not Golden Dawn as a whole - cannot stand any more. Plundering, stealing, vandalism, intimidation is everyday. They had to resort to the D.A. We will be with them and we will help them as we can. They, of course, also expected help from the Minister, Mr Muzala. He went incognito to Idomeni and drew a secret plan. What is the government's secret plan for immigration, at least in Kilkis, which is the main exit gateway to the Europe of immigrants? I'll tell you now. Some solidarity, he says, wanted to grant in exchange a lot of profits for specific NGOs, a place to form and become a hot spot on the French river of Kilkis. This is denounced by the local residents. A stable was this, indicative of the value they give immigrants, illegal immigrants or refugees or as they want to be told by those who manage humanity. They couldn't choose him, because he finally couldn't get approved, he wanted a lot of money to be formed. These are fairy tales. It was not because the people of the region reacted legally and passed a message to everyone else, that with legal reaction and resistance to the government's manipulations in the issue of illegal immigrants they can achieve too much, because it is against the law on border areas to become hot spots. The policemen, of course, who are in these areas, understand that they are forced to operate illegally, while there are no foreign workers. Let the refugees, who are in a process to leave the country. There are currently about three thousand in Idomeni, who have "eaten a door" from Skopje, for whom they say they are not refugees, because they are not from Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, and they are staying and camped there. That's illegal, the cops know it, and they look the other way. They go buses, they carry immigrants, and that's illegal and they know it. When an amendment was passed that said it allowed foreigners to come in with a residence permit, 24-hour or 40-hour, in order to facilitate their departure from Greece, we also said that this should be done in the counties that are exit gates. Christodoulou did not accept it, and it remains illegal, and I do not know if there is any incident there. Because people are also police officers and immigrants, and there can be a conflict and there can be victims among them. We've always been stabbed. Will anyone cover the police officers who are there tell them that 'we had told you to allow' or would they be told 'why did you leave them'? Is he ignorant of law? Ignorance of law is not allowed to the public too. Relevant questions are asked in Musala, he doesn't answer, because he says we have slogans extremistly and we abuse immigrants. Christodoulou did the same. The most responsible approach is how the Golden Dawn works. If some other ideologues were in a similar position, they would have painted Greece with blood. The whole Department of Health does the same. Blonde and Polakis do not answer the questions of Golden Dawn. I'm asking questions about hospitals with a problem, asking questions about Kilkis Hospital going to close. But they don't answer me. I'm not complaining. I thank them for their lessons in how a government elected MPs can manage and no one reacts. A SYRIZA spokesman has wondered why the new MPs do not understand the areas and reforms of the government. Reforms are felt by society. No reform is development, it is only tax-based. It is felt by farmers who, together with farmers, along with workers, will kneel with the whole economy. They are the pavilions, who are closing their stand and no new permits are granted. They're drying up to favour minimarket chains. Pharmaceuticals will not be able to survive, as will the Greek pharmaceutical industry, breadmakers, crepeds, popular markets will have to fight in hours and prices for LIDLs and supermarket chains. The motorists in northern Greece will take out Bulgarian signs, those who didn't make. Taxi owners see the OAU's bills sticking one month after another and they can't pay them. One-way selling licences to multinationals, with Greek and foreign slave drivers working with hunger wages and hours inhumane. That's how citizens feel SYRIZA's budget, so we feel it on Golden Dawn. The government, of course, is unjustly looking for partners in the Central Association. The New Democracy must look. We hear them from this morning until night saying that they had such deep faith in this left-wing government and you disappointed them. How a left government works this way, as if it were something that would solve all the problems! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ten seconds, Mr. President. Finally, for the uniforms, the men and women of the Security Corps and the Hellenic Army are the main actors in the operation of a national state. They were targeted and economically exhausted at the time they are exhausted by their work obligations and psychologically. Huge pressure. If you now admit that there is no national state, if the state has become an enemy of the citizen, then it is doomed to be shattered and we have to regenerate it. We are also obliged to show the whole world that Europe has once again been saved by a handful of Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u379	Mrs. Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2016 budget at a time when it is not and does not expect it to be easy for the country's economy. After the elections in Genoa, we have taken over the keeping and processing of the previous budget, voted on by another government and another programme. Nevertheless, we have managed to cope and in addition, we have managed to find ways to move our own program. In addition, we gave our fellow citizens a breath in need. A clear example is the bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis in the country, where this year it will also be a budgeted and costed measure, and it will also have its due attention. In today's budget, however, we cannot avoid and pass on some of the facts that have to do with real economic sizes. The Greek economy was moving for an eight-month period without funding, which was a political option added to the suffocating pressure on the Greek Government. But, on the other hand, we cannot overlook the sizes that make us hope for a much better follow-up. We cannot ignore the fact that the forecasts are much better than those we may have heard in the media or some of our colleagues. We have recently heard - and, indeed, more and more strongly - that it is the non-realistic actions of the government, both during negotiation and in terms of the country's overall governance on the left. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are telling you that, thanks to this government and even for its sake of negotiation, we have avoided large and dangerous primary surpluses. In the second programme, the primary surplus was 4.5% of GDP. Moreover, a target is 0.5%, i.e. 850 million euros compared with 4.5 billion euros that the previous government would have to ensure in accordance with its commitments. This is how we avoid measures for EUR 7 billion. Finally, the most important thing is the transfer, relocation of debt repayment time. As much as you deny it, the great success of our Prime Minister and government remains. At the same time, the interest rate was reduced to 1%. The first report of the Left, although placed at a time when the Greek economy is trying to make its first steps in a positive direction, comes to leave its mark. With targeted interventions, we look forward to stability and not to the submission of inappropriate budgets which are submitted only to be reviewed at the first opportunity towards worse. At the moment, then, when we have stable expenditure on OTAs and privileged allowances, we are providing more than EUR 823 million for additional social costs. For example, we ensure an uninsured card for free access to hospitals. We are providing EUR 62 million to cover uninsured overages. We perform the extinguishing of fines to the public transport of unemployed for 2010-2015 and continue to move free of charge to the means of transport for the unemployed. At the same time, we must stress that for the first time after five years there will be recruitment in the health sector, while increasing the grant to hospitals by EUR 300 million. Public investment has been almost stable in recent years. The Public Investment Programme is growing from EUR 650 million to EUR 700 million, while the NSRF channelled EUR 300 million more than last year. With regard to the NRP, we were reluctant to clarify the situation. There were projects which, because of their previous use, were at risk by dismantling, while some other projects did not meet the conditions. Thus we have achieved a speeding up of the absorption procedures of the NRP, while the government has made double the advance from Community funding 14% instead of 7%. You're asking us how we're going to cut expenditure. I would mention, for example, the application of the measure on electronic document service. It should be noted that for 2014 EUR 11,5 million was paid for document performance. You referred to the lists and checks. Clearly we say that we will insist on combating tax evasion and tax evasion. We're checking all the lists, old, new, Vestfalia list, Rhineland list, Lagard list, Luxembourg list, and whatever comes up with us. As far as offshore is concerned, of the ten thousand active in Greece, six thousand are exploitable. Of these six thousand offshore have been checked by the three hundred eighty-four and taxes have been paid for EUR 129.5 million. Finally, we ensure capital adequacy through successful recapitalisation where timely completion of the process has definitively prevented the risk of deposit haircuts, while the cost of recapitalisation has been significantly reduced, since it will ultimately cost EUR 5.6 billion from the EUR 25 billion of the original projection, which means significant debt retention and a reduction in interest costs. The fact that the 2015 budget target is less allows the government not to take any further measures. On the contrary, it opens up the possibility of widening the scope for policy focusing on the social priorities which are also one of the demands of our own governance, while giving the opportunity for the redistribution of economic resources from non-productive uses to socially useful uses. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the budget is realistic and is based on very specific forecasts, while we have not incorporated in the budget the expected revenues from tax evasion control, smuggling and increased collection. The additional revenue will be translated into social benefits and will be directed primarily to the protection of vulnerable social groups. Thus, the need to redistribute, broaden the tax base and redistribute tax burdens is becoming greater. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's our qualitative difference. Whatever you say, ladies and gentlemen, our difference is obvious. Our work can be quite difficult and time - consuming. But who said the Left is for a while and for easy? With endurance, faith and stubbornness we will try to lay the foundations for the reconstruction of the Greek economy with a focus on social justice. We're realists. We'll succeed in the impossible, and we'll change the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Kontogeorgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing these days in plenary of the Greek Parliament the first budget of Tsipras - Kammenos, the first budget of the SYRIZA mutant left and the Memorandum of Independent Greeks, the most anti-development budget of the last six years, which includes a new tax raid, dismantles social security and social state, cuts benefits and pensions and leads the national economy to primary deficits and the vicious cycle of recession. We are talking about the budget that certifies the full submission of the SYRIZA and the ANELs to lenders and the toughest memorandum that best demonstrates the complete unreliability of the Tsipras - Kammenos Government and the lack of strategic planning for the country. It confirms the deception of the people with reasoned courage and the lack of traces of sensitivity to their problems, strangles the real economy, increases unemployment and nullifies hope for growth and exit from the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth it, however, to make a brief regression to the one year in which the left-wing SYRIZA and ANEL are governed. Last year, we discussed the 2015 budget of the New Democracy - PASOK Government, a confessedly ambitious budget that gave the mark of the country's gradual exit from the crisis and the memoranda, stabilised the economy and laid the foundations for sustainable development at a rate of 2.5%. The 2014 budget ended with zero deficits and a positive rate of GDP change in the last quarter. The competitiveness of the economy began to improve and unemployment for the first time since the accession of the country to the memorandum was reduced. No one claimed that all the problems were solved unilaterally. However, we were objectively at the beginning of the end of the painful crisis and of the sacrifices of citizens. We were in a step before leaving the memorials and the hard surveillance of our lenders. It was planned by the government at the time that the country's smooth exit to the markets would ensure the financing of the economy by the temporary credit line of the European Support Facility and not even the presence of the International Monetary Fund. At this critical moment for the country and the national economy, and while the Samara - Venizelou government called for consensus in order to elect a President of the Republic from the then parliament, the Tsipra - Kammenos opposition has been blackmailing the country. Partners in the Tsipras - Kammenos government, with total irresponsibleness, with unresponsible populism and unconscious lies by putting rabbits on the people with rocks, have intercepted their vote. I remind you of some atrocities from the current Prime Minister last December. He said: "In September last year, the SYRIZA program was announced, which in our assessment is a turning point for the political life of the country, because we presented a realistic, effective and costable plan. We do not claim new deficits, we do not want new loans." Really, what happened to this program? In another abstraction for the memorials he said: “The memorial is not something from which one can enter. Anyone who serves it does not find the door of exit easily." And he continued: "I want to make it clear that we do not want to act only the great vision and desire of our people to overthrow this policy of monuments, to overthrow the memorials, but we want much more". Unstoppable lies and words of the air. The President of the ANLL with countless arrogance said: 'Ladies and colleagues, we have to co-decide that this policy is over and the government is over. This policy has no tomorrow. The only policy that can be in existence tomorrow is a policy with which to regain national sovereignty, carry out audits, debt write-offs and such measures that will bring growth." In another abstraction he said: "We must proceed immediately to such measures that will enable the heavy industry in the country to take the lead, tourism. I see the troika imposes an increase in VAT on tourism. If that's possible! The greatest measure that can completely kill the national economy is precisely that". "Proposals we have in particular", said Mr Kammenos. 'Reduce VAT across tourism to 5%'. Admir consistency of words and actions! And as if not all of this were enough, the two of them, Kammenos and Tsipras, in full chord with several members of their parliamentary groups, were fierce and targeting the Members of the then condolence in terms of pedestrianism: 'news', 'Germancholes','submissives of Merkel'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Their bulimia for power threw Samara - Venizelou government. Without computing the consequences for the economy and society, writing in their old shoes the sacrifices of the people, after being systematically deceived, they came to power. The follow-up is known to everyone: After wandering with the baroque aerials for six months, they reached the country to the limits of total destruction and bankruptcy. You have confiscated the funds of the state from all sorts of cash. You closed the banks, strangling the real economy and led all Greek beggars to ATMs for a 50-year-old. You have troubled all citizens with the referendum - parody, and you have led the country to the most prestigious third memorandum. In my place, Evrytania, the major infrastructure, which gave employment and income to several fellow citizens, is carved because of a lack of funding: the Agravian Road Axis, the Dornista Road Axis - always rains, the Macris and MacKoromes bypass and others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance for a minute. As they have the origin of the mountainous tumors of Evrytania, I believe you understand me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u383	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u384	Aid to the livestock sector has been stopped. Unemployment and the poverty of citizens are growing. Public health is in a bad mess. The Carpenesian Hospital is down. The Western Francis Health Center is on the back of shutdown. 90% of regional hospitals remain vacant. The Carpenesi TEI operates with huge shortages of staff and student care. Public schools work hard and with shortcomings, while the only IEC in the prefecture is still closed. Self-government with prestigious funding is trying to meet its obligations. The correction of the damage suffered by the flooding prefecture, which was declared in an emergency, runs counter to the indifference of the government. Each economic activity is strangled by lack of liquidity and ongoing uncertainties. In proportion, of course, the same picture applies to the whole territory. In the face of these deadlocks, after you have asked for the consent of the pro-European political forces, which have been given you very little, you have again led to elections, deceiving citizens once again. While you were given a unique opportunity to set up a national front following the elections with all the pro-European political forces and to implement a strategic program to relaunch the country's economy and exit from the crisis, you chose the arrogant path of SYRIZA - ANEL co-operation and the implementation of a one-dimensional, co-legislative and inefficient programme, the results of which have already been analysed by the rapporteur of the New Democracy and the special rapporteurs. Apart from the taxes you have imposed, the new budget makes the same tax policy. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL. Now in the face of the hardships you ask for consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Comrade, put a perfect one. The favor goes to be scandalous!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u386	Yeah. Give me ten seconds, Mr. President. After all, I have been absent for several months from this House, so I think I am entitled to more than a minute from all my colleagues. We confess, of course, your ability to present the black white, to baptize the fish meat, as we confess your ability to recommend to citizens the fillings and pies of their basic nutritional needs. But the lies are over. You will drink yourself the bitter glass of inconsistency. And since the Prime Minister likes Arabic proverbs, we will tell him that his caravan has been lost in the sandstorm of unreliableness and populism and has become an ashes. Finally, we say 'no' to the budget of the Left of Tsipras - Kammenos, the left of the misery, the taxes, the imminent left, nothing, which you have called. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, until Mr Arachovitis arrives at Step I will make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Florina. The House warmly welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the budget for the year 2016 in the part concerning the primary sector, we must have a clear picture of where he was found - or rather better to say where he collapsed - in recent years of memoranda, incompetence and interests. We therefore have to say that the basic sizes, such as the production of agricultural purely agricultural activity, gross and net added value are in Greece in the opposite direction to the one observed in the European Union of twenty-seven. In particular: According to data from the European Commission between 2005 and 2012, production of the agricultural sector has changed by an average annual rate of less than 1,7 %, plus 3,1 in Europe of twenty-seven. The average annual change in gross value added was less than 4.5 compared with a rise in Europe of twenty-seven by 1.1. Net value added in 2012 represented only 73.7% of the 2005 price compared with 91.9% in Europe of twenty-seven. In a context of a general downturn in the financing of enterprises by the banking system, the primary sector recorded the largest decline. According to data, which relate to the balance of loans, funding for all sectors of the economy decreased from 2009 to 2014 by 34,5% in total. At the same time, financing in the primary sector has been reduced by 61.1% - see the rural Bank's scandal at this time. According to FAO, the guidance indicator for financing in the primary sector in Greece since 1,2 in 2000 has been reduced to only 0,19 in 2012. At the same time, the corresponding index in Italy is 2,34 and France 3,03. In the agricultural sector of Greece in 2008-2014 a disinvestment process is observed, which is expressed by the continuous reduction of gross fixed capital formation from 1,921 million to 1,151 million at current prices. This unfavourable process restricts the renewal and extension of equipment and undermines competitiveness. Who is to blame for all these years now, ladies and gentlemen? Is SYRIZA responsible? But, ladies and gentlemen, that is the cruel reality. This situation has been called upon to manage and overthrow and we will do so, because we have knowledge of the problems, come and live in society and its problems - because we have no dependence on anyone, except on the people who elected us, because we have vision and plan. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are aiming to strengthen the country's nutritional adequacy with healthy and quality products at affordable prices, to improve the shortfall in trade balance of agricultural products by substituting imports and supporting exports, to reduce the actual cost of production for the farmer. We have already started with the very short-term vote of the first law of the Ministry of Rural Development after many years, aimed at reducing production costs for the farmer and producing more quality products. We also aim to support and increase employment, the income of farmers and rural households, the development of the region and the social and economic reconstruction of rural areas. We plan to upgrade public services and infrastructure to support rural development and research. We are planning to modernise and upgrade the system of payment and control of Community aid for the eradication of accounts and financial corrections. In a few months' time we have already covered financial aid and rural world rights with over six years' delays. Of course, the charges, which come from the well-known packages of the past, will not be subjected to them either in 2015 or in 2016. The procedure, as you know, of the charges is an automatic procedure, which is handled by officials. With the amendment, tabled in the draft law on grazing land, the process is upgraded to a ministerial decision, with the aim of passing by Parliament as well and of ensuring that everyone assumes their responsibilities. We are also planning to reorganise the system of inputs and marketing with the aim of reducing production costs and the difference in producer-consumer prices, the reconstruction of the cooperative movement and the development of collective forms of organisation on the basis of a new legislative framework for farmers' professional organisations, cooperation and social economy, the treatment of illegal trade and Greece's agricultural products. Ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL government is a budget that certainly does not solve all the problems that the previous governments have taken care of us. But it is the dawn of a new era and therefore the Greek people are still firmly supporting the government despite the ruthless communication attack that we have with half the truths and whole lies, with rumours, leaks and montaziers, such as the rate of income tax for farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in half a minute. If you read the budget better, you will see that neither the income tax rate of 13% is going to change nor the exemption of up to EUR 12 000 and all the allowances. Ladies and gentlemen, the people - like it or not - do not forget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u389	Thank you. Mr. Arachovitis lacquer and Mr. Arachovitis. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers do not see today, not just the presence - and we are equally honoured by the Minister of Finance - but to speak. They want publicity. It is only on camera that the Ministers and, of course, the colleagues here are excluded. Look, all in 2015, the permanent subsistence of the excuses for the inadequacy and failures of government was that "we are making a budget that others have made". However, I note from the budget that, in any case, the management deficit and the inability of some are independent budgets. All organisations, all bodies which should have surpluses in management, have deficits and two bodies which should have deficits - because they are one to deal with unemployment and the other to deal with poverty - have huge surpluses. Listen, gentlemen! Admir effective government with social sensitivity! The OAED half a billion surplus in 2015, in fact 504 million, because the incompetent were unable to implement the ten ready programs we left them! European Aid Fund for the Most deprived in tackling extreme poverty. Touching the 330 million that last year we brought after negotiation with the European Commission. What else can you say? He wants other arguments that people are... - I don't want to tell you about the balls, or we'll get the balls wrong. If that's possible! It is certain that the next period will be as ineffective. Because the left budget they've built now begins with harder conditions. A year later, we start from a starting point much worse than it was last year. We have a budget that incorporates 7.2 billion meters, 4.2 billion euros, because the government has chosen to charge citizens, businesses, each family and all productive sectors with fiscal adjustment, and 3 billion cuts from social benefits, not from management costs, not from the dark aspects of the state - these are untouchable! - but from social spending. And he comes and talks about the social budget. But if that's possible! Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are dealing with a budget which will not be implemented. It is like in the amendment to the bill brought by Mr Apostleos yesterday and it was passed today, which immediately after his vote said: I am not going to implement these provisions! Does anyone here have the courage to say that this budget will not be implemented? It will not be implemented because the data and data from ELSTAT have already been changed, which is the basis of which it has been drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, after three elections, which cost the Greek taxpayer 200 million, they have completely collapsed the false account of the Thessaloniki programme and the so-called 'we will change Europe first and then change Greece' and the so-called tough negotiation - another! - and the fat lie about a parallel program, of the invisible program, which, today, SYRIZA MP Mr Papadopoulos brought it to us and moved it to us and said it would be ready in April 2016. The first time, however, the left caused a great deal of damage, especially to young people. Youth was beginning to have a little hope - a small percentage of it - because of the improvement of the situation last year in the country. Those who were closest to things and watched had that hope that at last we're going to go out to the clearing. But they also had a great hope, the biggest portion of the young people who believed SYRIZA. Uh, the first time left SYRIZA and Kammenos destroyed this youth's hope. This is the greatest damage for the people we need to be in front of, to get them into the social and economic fabric. Ladies and gentlemen, all the things you have put in the budget to be done in '16 will bring greater unemployment, will bring some tens of thousands of additional families to be found without a home, you have chosen 95% of the programme to be from overtaxation and only 5% from privatization and reforms. There is no reform programme and your Government continues to interpret as fair taxation the burden of low and medium-incomes, the deterioration of the relationship between indirect - direct taxes and the increased cost of living that this relationship causes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little time to finish, Mr President. Taxation of wealth oligarchy and tax evasion proved to be a fumara. One provision has not, symbolically, even voted here on taxation of the great wealth. We have been calling for the extension of the development law for days. Mr. Constantinople has tabled a timely question. Mr Stathakis is not responding to the development package. I say to you that for the agricultural sector, funding for the development pillar has been reduced by 250 million. How will growth proceed? You're hitting everything creative. You're taxing productivity. You found the excise duty now on wine. You found the hole in the olive oil. What else? Think every night, Minister, what will you strike, what will you target tomorrow? If it is possible in this way that the relaunching of the economy can proceed, which is a necessary condition for us to be able to get out of the crisis. Look, if there is no real economy, we have to understand it, there cannot be a sustainable social state. If there is no strong private economy to pay taxes, neither social system nor insurance nor pensions can be available. All the discussions on insurance with the insurance technicians who are not based on a certain economic re-launching plan for tomorrow are in the air. These technocratic insurers cannot provide a solution to the insurance and pension issue of the country, unless we first discuss the national reconstruction plan, the relaunch of the economy, and how we will achieve it through the national and social consultation in which we insist, not for communication reasons, but for the substance of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u391	Mr President, for a minute, I would like to speak because some descriptions have been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no? On staff, if you want, you can take the floor. He's not in the process, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u393	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u394	Only on staff. Mr President, it cannot be because there is no personal designation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u395	There is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u396	I'm a rapporteur, and I think I have the right to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u397	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u398	Mr. Kegeroglu, these descriptions... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u399	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u400	Don't leave him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u401	Evidently he judges the alternators himself and is the identification of the characterizations. Because they know what they've done all these years and youth knows even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u402	Mrs. Thalerite has the floor, Mr. President. Mrs. Thelerite...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u403	Mr President, I would now like to speak on personal grounds. Well, if...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Kegeroglu, you just got off the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u405	He's got the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u406	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u407	Mr. Beyla, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, I want the floor, unless you tell me that he has taken the floor. If you say that he has taken the floor, I don't want the floor. And what he said should be erased from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u409	Mrs. Thalerite has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u410	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the importance of this state budget and because it is the first budget that a left-wing government has put forward, and because it has two extremely important and crucial priorities for the context of our country's current situation, which are reflected in the respective objectives. Two are the main objectives of the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u411	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u412	First of all, the budgetary equilibrium, in order not to reopen the budget deficit and secondly social justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u413	Mr Kegeroglu, please pay attention to the speaker, similar to the one she gave you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u414	If I may continue. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ... and, secondly, social justice in favour of weak social groups and in favour of health and welfare. Despite the limited financial resources, the state budget focuses on social justice, apart from budgetary equilibrium. In addition to the government's will, the general framework and environment of the economy, which, according to the figures presented and we have in mind and presented by Mrs Papanatziou, the forecasts are much better for the recession at this time of the year. What's the fingerprint this budget leaves? The footprint that differentiates the budget of the current government from the budgets of the previous governments is precisely that it emphasises the element of social justice. The '16 budget is not neutral. It has social significance and aims at redistribution, justice and universality. It ensures an important financial area for social policy, cuts are not horizontal but targeted and the total cost of our social budget is increased by 823 million. So we have additional social costs in the fight against unemployment, for other sickness benefits, for welfare benefits, for hospital aid, and for the first time we are aware of the increase in the costs we have in the health sector, to which the fellow Member referred in detail. And that is high, we would say, an increase in expenditure, because it aims to cover all the uninsured. I would like to point out here that in addition to the areas that I have mentioned, which are clearly prioritised, local government is also a priority. Why? Because it is making a decisive contribution to tackling the humanitarian crisis and because today the situation in the field of self-government is extremely difficult. Today the situation in self-government is extremely difficult, because in the last six years of the economic crisis, local government has been subject to reductions, particularly from the CAP to around 60%. The EBRD has decreased by 85% and all the investment activity in the self-government sector has been removed - it is used purely for operating costs - while at the same time the new powers in the municipalities have increased significantly. What, then, is provided for in this state budget? Total budget appropriations for municipalities are estimated at EUR 2,574 000 for 2015 and increased by 3 million. For 2016 they amount to 2,583 000 and are increased by 9 million euros. In the above revenues, in addition to the CFPs which all know to be the most important source of income for LAGs, there is also a special grant of EUR 38 million for the support of the municipalities in order to meet the payroll costs incurred by the reinstatement of municipal police to municipalities and the employment of staff for the cleaning of school units. We should also note the following points and data: First, the total budget appropriations for the regions are estimated at EUR 315 million for 2015 and EUR 652 million for 2016, increased by 307 million, and this is due to the payment of the costs incurred by staff, those in the region, which are directly financed by the region instead of the Interior Ministry. Total local government revenues for 2015 are estimated to amount to EUR 6 billion, reduced by EUR 912 million, compared to the revenues provided for the 2015 budget and this is due to the significant delay in other local government revenues and we all know the difficulties that local government has in collecting fees at this time of crisis, because they are collected through PPC's accounts. According to the forecasts of the consolidated budget of the local government for 2016, a positive financial result of EUR 315 million is projected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll finish right up. Please allow me to speak for two more minutes, Mr President. The reductions planned for surpluses in the 2015 and 2016 budget follow the adaptation of the estimates of the medium-term programme, which provides for lower primary surpluses than in the past. For the first time, we see that local government has fewer surpluses than the central government, and that is the result of the negotiation that the government has had and that local government also benefits. The aim is, therefore, to ensure as small a surplus as possible, so that we can lead to zeroing, which is also the demand of the trade union movement, the collective bodies of local government. Furthermore, it is important to provide for the treatment of the new generation of detainees, whose cuts have started since 2010, and to help increase, we would say, the problems of self-government. Finally, there are ten points, I consider it extremely important for the area of administrative reform, self-government and equality. I'm telling you, I'm... I'm telling you, I'm... I'm telling you, I'm... The first is the assessment of civil servants for the first time, the law on the selection of heads, the National Register of Officials, which attempts to decentralise the state...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u415	Madam Colleague, we have a surplus of speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u416	Yes, Mr President, I shall end. Also, staff mobility, updating the institutional framework governing the supervision of TAs by depositing a draft law to upgrade e-government and, finally, putting forward a draft law on effective gender equality, where there is the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention, i.e. Istanbul. Most importantly, however, we have managed to continue operating all support structures in local government, which are the advisory centres and the SOS line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u417	Mr. Yannis Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr President. I hope I have the same tolerance as my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating today is an explicit assumption that everything that the current government majority said a year ago was false about internal consumption. It is a presumption of political deception and irresponsibility. We are discussing a budget much heavier than last year's corresponding year. Heavier in all respects. And the economic data are much worse and the prospects of the economy are negative and the additional burden on the Greeks is unbearable and, above all, the government is recharged with new burdens on the known mortgages, i.e. the weak, which production powers have remained in the country, the professionals, the multipathic middle class. The new measures provided for in the 2016 budget, the new burdens on the backs of the Greeks come precisely because of the change of policy, come precisely because of the foreign - supposedly - negotiation of the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this time you cannot convince anyone that someone is supposed to be responsible for the results of your own irresponsibility. So you took over the fates of the country, while the economy had returned to growth, unemployment had started slowly but firmly retreat, Greece achieved primary surpluses that gave us deep breaths to relieve the wounds that the crisis opened. And in just one year you managed to bring all this down, you returned Greece back to the recession, back to the deficits, back to the reinstatement of unemployment, and indeed, with the prospects for 2016 to be worse than in 2015, the year of capital controls, the day-to-day anxiety, the full international depreciation, the irresponsible risk of our country's strategic choices and pillars. Exclusively, because of your choices, you have made it necessary to recapitalise the banks, at the cost paid by the Greeks with a full depreciation of the national participation achieved with sacrifices by the Greeks, with the negligence of the public and small shareholders. So let us say this clearly to recapitalise the banks - which because of you have needed this - you are cutting off pensions and increasing taxes today. It was announced that Finansbank was sold. I would like to point out here that in practice it proved to be the correctness of the investment of the National Bank in Finansbank, which took place in the government of Costas Karamanlis, and for which they had heard from the opposition at the time, even cries for special courts. Unfortunately, today it has been announced that this investment is actually sacrificed to the altar of the need for recapitalisation resulting from your own mistakes. So here is what your policy results are: Increase VAT and even tax on products of national importance, such as wine, you increase income tax, the special solidarity levy, the premium tax, traffic charges, the taxation of rented income. You are even more brutal than the production powers left in the country, and the most official means of establishing the internal payment stop. In the rural world, which daily fights for survival against high production costs and low producer prices, the delay in payment of aid and compensation, institutional insecurity and bureaucratic claws, you are giving the final blow. Because it is a perfect hit, such as an increase in the advance payment and rates of income tax, an increase in insurance contributions, the abolition of the refund of excise duty on oil. How, then, will we become competitive when, for example, in Argolida, the orange price began at 18 minutes a kilo which, if we subtract from cutting costs, is only 12 to 13 minutes, from which the farmer, the producer, should pay VAT of 23% on fertilisers and pesticides, fuels, insurance premiums, drilling and windmills and also live in his family? Likewise, you brutally beat the retired and the weak, the ones you were supposed to protect as a priority. You thus reduce pensions, social security benefits, social benefits, reduce the heating allowance, reduce and remove the NSA. Even the 200 million to deal with the economic crisis you have not even managed to make available. Expenditure this year will be only 108 million and will be reduced even further in 2016, when the previous government with a trunk of New Democracy had spent 455 million in 2014 for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no magical solutions to politics and the economy. There are no magic wands. It's not enough to want anything to conspire the universe to get it. The style, the training, the bluff cannot be your main negotiating tools, while the fate of an entire people is at stake. These self-evidently, the government has not yet realised them. We see it in her international deception, where every day one serious diplomatic error succeeds the other. We see it in the oliguria and in the fore - back in the beef which has been taxed on private education, which in turn has become a tax on beer, so that it can be taxed on wine. We see it in the arrogance of government officials. We, ladies and gentlemen, will not get tired of repeating that the path that the country needs to take is given: stabilisation, reconstruction, development, healing the wounds of the crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With huge sacrifices by the Greeks, in 2014 the country was ready for recovery. With your own choices, with your exclusive responsibility, we have come back and unfortunately even today you do not seem to have realised that the crucial issue for Greece today is growth, the creation of productive jobs, the creation of income that will allow and the exercise of a serious social policy. You, cling to your ideas, choose the overtaxation and enlargement of the state. It is clear that we in this deadlocked policy cannot consent. We are therefore voting against the budget. We highlight in the most resounding way the consequences for the economy and society and we will do what our institutional role imposes on us in order to reduce as much as possible the heavy imprint of today's government in the lives of Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u419	Mr. Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr President. Through the rapporteur's report, as you say, the Government's efforts to strengthen the structural measures launched, i.e. anti-grassroots structural measures, as well as health-care measures, are expressed in both those adopted and implemented, and others which are designed or to be implemented, for example, the equivalent of the famous five-euro. In addition to the reductions in wages and pensions, the reversals in the insurance system, the savage tax relief, the liberalisation of the auctions, and so on, the conditions for further deterioration of the living conditions, medical, nursing and medical care of the people are created. This is where barbarity and insanity stems from the present state budget, since new, additional reductions in state and insurance costs are anticipated for health care and welfare services, and also for the medicine, as well as for the operation of state health units in relation to the already 'cut-off' costs of 2015, as well as for the last few years - notable - have been "dreamed". Accordingly, total expenditure on social security, care and social protection is reduced. This is how additional state costs are being saved for the diversity of monopolies through tax reliefs, tax exemptions with direct financing of business groups, in order to continue uninterrupted business action, i.e. by compacting even more with the so-called ‘non-wage costs’ that is an essential condition for achieving the government and Euro-Union target for reducing and restraining labour costs at levels and limits to ensure greater competitiveness and increasing the profitability of groups. It is precisely this political line of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, namely support for capital, that is to say it is inverted by the satisfaction of modern peoples in health, since business activity and the fulfilment of people's needs are not compatible. This is the dominant cause of the anti-population policy of coexistence and health and welfare issues, since what defines it and forms it is the criterion of full agreement with the European Union's strategy for capitalist development, with the'motor' business groups, a strategy that not all other parties question, regardless of any individual disagreements or differences. This strategic partnership, as well as a match with all the previous urban, monumental, liberal governments, strives to cover up the government, highlighting some individual issues as evidence of its efforts, but also as an element of allegedly differentiation, highlighting, for example, the renewals of subsidiary staff, the renewals of two-month, three-month contracts or the recent notice of medical staff for ITH or newly-born METH. However, in no case can it be covered, as is shown in the budget, the way and means by which this strategy is served in order to achieve the famous, famous capitalist recovery. So, firstly, the EEAS continues its state-funding policy, as it remains the same as last year, while at the same time it provides for an increase in its health revenue of 2% from the increase in insurance contributions to main pensions and the imposition of 4% on subsidiary, so they are grabbed by pensioners' pockets of EUR 710.5 million for 2016. This is how the governmental objective of containment of the Agency's costs is achieved and at the same time improves its outcome. However, beyond the above direct economic measures, a number of other interventions that set additional limits, caps and cuts in examinations, treatments and others are implemented through the prescription control, the rationalisation of diagnostic tests, the upgrade of electronic prescribing to monitor expenditure in real time. The pharmaceutical cost of EEAS is projected to be reduced by EUR 52 million, resulting in patients putting the hand in the pocket more and more deeply to buy medicines, health materials and more. We must also bear in mind the increasing number of non-prescribed medicines and the negative list for which patients pay entirely, since they are not compensated and for which patients - notable - are invited to pay an additional EUR 1 billion annually, as is EUR 1 per prescription, that is, EUR 60 million from the patient's pocket. Secondly, the reduced funds for the operation of public hospitals and staff costs mean the consolidation of the current unacceptable and dangerous regime of enormous shortages in staff, equipment, medicines and consumables, exacerbating the already explosive problems. As a result of this dangerous situation - one example I will mention - 32% of the cancer patients have no early diagnosis and treatment due to the multi-month waiting lists in public hospitals, while 28% of the same patients do not receive their medications in time due to lack of drugs in public hospitals. In the face of this marginal and escalating situation with the empty organic positions in public hospitals, the thousands of deficiencies in the units of the EDN, the announcements of recruitment over a period of time - as the head of the Ministry of Health and the Government are saying, since the strict financial framework does not allow for spectacular progress in a short time - will not even cover pensions in recent years. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of Parliament is ringing.]] Mr President, give me some time. Thirdly, the State budget's report repeats the announcement of the restructuring of primary health care with the core of family doctors, neighborhood health units and much more. She's actually changing what? It changes the way in which health services will be purchased through the family doctor, who will in practice ensure that those charged by the insured person in the insurance fund do not exceed the limit of the 'cut-off' budgets. This is how the objective is promoted to further reduce state health expenditure on the basis of cost-benefit. At the same time, the financing of primary health care using ESRB funds and the fact that the units of the ESRB will be implemented with the EEAS means that any development of primary health care units will be at the least possible state costs and their viability will depend almost exclusively on the revenues from the sales of their services to the EEAC client and the funding of the maturity of the ESRB programmes. In view of the above, the prevention sector before all will continue to be individual responsibility, an individual case with serious consequences for the people. Indicative in this direction is that only 30% of young women have been vaccinated against cervical cancer, while 40% of young patients from this disease lose their lives essentially because of their lack of public and free prevention services. What is confirmed by the above - and many more we could say - is the ever deeper commercialisation of health services. The trend towards a gradual change in the ratio between government spending on welfare and drug services and those paid by the people at the expense of the latter is recorded. A situation is essentially created where the part of the free state benefits as well as the benefits of the insurance funds is drastically restricted, due to their underfunding by the State and the capital, and increases the part of the services that will be provided in return according to the financial capacity of the employees. Thus, behind the government's festivities for the positive cash result in hospitals and the EEAS, which - notably - come from the bleeding of people's incomes with the direct and indirect payments of workers and pensioners, the effort is being hidden in the literally reversal of reality, wanting to camouflage its barbaric policy of savage cuts in health expenditure cumulatively in the wild towels of previous years. Here is how the harsh, painful and classic form of government policy is confirmed through the state budget, which in the name of the competitiveness and profitability of the monopolistic groups of capitalist development sacrifices the satisfaction of people and of health and welfare issues and the medicine, since it not only continues, but escalates anti-grass policy in previous years. However, it is also confirmed that there is no alternative philosophical proposal within the framework of the capitalist system, within Greece's political and participation in the European Union and other imperialist alliances. Our people have no reason to show any consensus, no tolerance, but rather to strengthen their own alliance, workers, the unemployed, the self-employed, the poor farmer, to oppose the organisation of the struggle for their own objectives against the government's anti-popular attack, a rift with their monopolies and power, so that the wealth that he produces can be plunged, while at the same time satisfying his ever-growing needs between them and for free universal services of health care and medicine, by exploiting all the achievements of science and technology in this direction. That is why we are voting against the budget. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u421	Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to vote on the budget for next year. This is the first budget for SYRIZA - ANEL. I say this from the outset to be clear: we are also voting against the government budget and we are voting against it for three reasons: Firstly, we are voting against the budget because in ten months you have shown that what you say and promise is absolutely irrelevant, since you are not bound by it. Secondly, we are voting against the budget because the implementation of the current budget was very bad and nothing guarantees that your performance will be better next year. Thirdly, we are voting against the budget because your policies are contrary to our principles and, above all, it is the opposite of what is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and ANEL are the political forces that would abolish the memorials by means of a law and an article, those who would not even be dead to those who vote for them and those who blamed them as germans, traitors and galauter. Remember the words they used to say. But it is their government that has brought the worst memorial of all. SYRIZA and ANEL are the political forces which are all the words of the Constitution, which in any act legislative content or urgent bill brought by the previous government have spoken of a constitutional diversion. Today, they are the ones who legislate almost exclusively with legislative acts and under the urgency procedure. Legislative acts privatize and do what they a few months ago called "the puncture of silver". SYRIZA and ANEL are the political forces that promised seismicism and were elected by the slogan "no house in the hands of a banker". Today they are the ones left by their parliamentarians who are deviated from their lies and who are celebrating because, according to what they have to say, they have achieved 40% of those who have red loans to be considered as rich either battered or both together, and that is why they are no longer protected. SYRIZA and ANEL are the ones who said that ENPHIA is an unfair and irrational tax and they called on the people not to pay him. They don't know what's going to happen. It is their government that not only abolished him, but even attempted to reduce him. On the contrary, he's kept him indefinitely. I could say a lot more, but I think my first argument has already been proved. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, what you say and what you promise are words written in sand. You do the same one day and you do the opposite. So we will not vote for a budget which will still be an addition to the collection of your lies. But let us see what you have achieved this year, since the budget for the year that is actually ending you have implemented it. The Greek economy, while we had a record of tourist arrivals and all the forecasts mentioned an increase of GDP by two and a half to three points, already from the third quarter returned to the recession. The economic climate index has deteriorated. Our rapporteur, Mr Stagioras, has developed them very well, and I do not need to repeat any details. I will only say that our economy returned to primary deficits after two years of primary surpluses. You are presenting us here with a so-called surplus effect of the freezing of payments to the private sector, as the due debts to the private sector have increased. And they even grew up vertically. I would remind you that, during our term of office, the debts to private individuals have been reduced and so money has been put on the market. At the same time revenue collapses for two reasons: Firstly, because of your foreign policy and the impact of capital controls on the real economy. Secondly, because your so-called impeccable policy against tax-payers, against smugglers, has become a joke against those involved in various lists. About a year you're government, and the result is zero. Of course, the Minister for Finance celebrates because the capital controls did not have the worst possible consequences, and he wonders why we don't tell him a good one. I would remind you that the capital controls did not bring either the wave or the juncture or our fate and our roots. Your government brought it. Your predecessor, Mr Tsakaloto, has brought them, Mr - and I said - 'My love, I have closed the banks', this gentleman who, even today, is defending him for his work. Today, you are also celebrating the so-called successful recapitalisation of the banks, the one that in January was totally unjustified, the one that was financed with new loans, the one that wiped out the investment of the Greek people in Greek banks and handed them over to foreign interests. In short this tenth month, the economy may have collapsed in all indicators, but you have been filled with your successes. Your things, then, prove that the economy so far has failed miserably. Let us assume, however, that you are doing everything well and that you are not completely unreliable. Then we should consider what you intend to do in 2016, if at least your policies are correct. The study of the budget forecasts and the current philosophy of your Government proves exactly the opposite. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Your ideology is statism. You come to the private sector. Mr. President, the bell, if you'd like. I'll be out in a minute. The other Members spoke eight and a half minutes. I won't get over seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u423	You're used to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u424	You consider success as well as excellence rets, even though this success is the only one that can brake unemployment and the fleeing of our youth abroad. When your basic concerns were ERT, the re-entry of cleaners, the re-entry of public servants, the placement of more senior officials and other measures which burdened the public sector and taxpayers, you did not legislate a half a metre for the free professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, trade unions and householders who have never taken a holiday. For all of them, all you've got is ravages in your menu. These are evidenced by the forecasts of the new budget. Increased direct taxes, forecasts of increased tax revenues, although the economy is in recession, and increased VAT. All of this while you could not collect this year's taxes, since therrears to public debts increased dramatically.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u425	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u426	I shall conclude, Mr President. No reliable prediction of a waste reduction exists in your budget. No intention of reform exists in your policy. Unfortunately, those who will bear the greatest additional burden in the implementation of the budget will be the most sensitive social groups: our low pensioners and our farmers. It is therefore a pity that the 2016 budget is a budget in the absolutely wrong direction, and that is why we will never be able to vote for it. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the myth of your left social sensitivity crumbles like a paper tower. Not a year has passed since you took over the rule of the country and the only political argument you have left is that you once had..
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Athanasios, 'find' is a transport concept?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u428	...for seventeen whole hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u429	Mr. George Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr President. Once the debate on the budget started, the opposition is stirring up the finger and dismissing the government for delays or for problems in society and the economy. But who created these problems? It's obvious that those who move the finger have created them. Looks like they think they're gonna hide behind the swollen finger. Sadly, though, no one ever hid behind the finger. From 2010 to December 2014, society and economy have been undone. They didn't leave anything standing. They have chosen the path of tough fiscal adjustment, which means extreme austerity. The lenders and their friends admitted they were wrong. But they, New Democracy, PASOK and DIMAR, insisted and even facilitated the lenders and relieved them of their responsibilities, saying that there is no other solution. Why is that? PASOK received the public debt to 120% of GDP, and the New Democracy - PASOK reached it at 185%. Can anyone think of that as a success? Did anyone explain to the Greek people that the public debt was high but private debt was the smallest among the members of the eurozone? Oh, no. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because they wanted to transfer their own responsibilities to the citizens and make them accomplices to the state of public debt and to the economy in general. With the policy of extremist taxation they have succeeded in hitting all sectors of the economy. They broke up the construction sector with such a mania that no one can explain it. The constructions that maintained over two hundred jobs were boasted and together thousands of professionals were added to the armies of the unemployed. The properties, the steam engine of the economy and the safety pillow of the Greek, with the overtaxation that you have imposed on the Greeks. You have thrown the values, with the consequences of multiple and tragic for banks, businesses, citizens, etc. But you didn't limit yourself here. You hit trade, you blamed traders as counterproductive, a class, a social group that traditionally supported the New Democracy. You hit those who supported you, you shut down the shops and we now see desert roads, dark roads, which were once alive, turned into ghosts with closed shops, down rolls and countless "Sold" and "Sold". They seem to have heard the exhortations of your officials who cynically said "whoever cannot respond to their expenses, to sell his homes or shops". You turned police officers from friends and civilian protectors into persecutors. You stopped citizens on the street, checked them out, and for a forgotten call, you carried citizens of railways to the departments and to the self-sacrifice. The citizen now had a sense of being circulated in a occupied country. You received unemployment at 11.5% in 2010 and delivered it in December 2014 to 27%. In fact, in the new generation it is perhaps more than 50%, resulting in thousands of Greek scientists seeking their luck abroad. The Greeks' statements, when you took over, reached 290 billion and downloaded them to 140. So many were in December 2014. You managed to close three banks that had been identified with our country, with Greece. You closed banks that had to do with productivity, entrepreneurship and savings. All the above are Greek's characteristics. You closed off the Agricultural Bank, which was a lever for agricultural development and a support for the farmer. You booked the Commercial Bank, a bank that the Greek business had identified with trade and in general business. You booked the Post Bank, a bank identified with saving. You've booked two hundred and fifty thousand businesses. You have achieved such a disaster in the country at such a point that foreigners likened it to a country that just came out of the war. You weakened the two-thirds of the Greeks and crushed the middle class, which traditionally made investments in our homeland. This class is now called upon to invest and we will convince her that we are not the same as you by creating the conditions that help the business. You delivered the trade to foreign hands, to foreign businesses, which carry the fighting of Greeks abroad. In my country of Thessaloniki, if anyone walks in the industrial area of Sindo or in Lagada or in Kofalia, in Chalcidon, Perea, Thormi, Panorama, Pylia, etc., he will see full yards of factories and crafts, desert roads, closed shops and people with dark look and desperation. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, I'll be done. We are trying and will be able to restore hope to the Greeks. It is therefore imperative after all that the development and structural changes needed by the economy, together with the restoration of social problems, should be developed. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] The priority of the new programme is structural measures aimed at correcting the tax and insurance system. The new programme contains specific development policies, measures and policies for the long-term unemployed and for combating undeclared work. There is a strengthening of state welfare with financial support to deal with the consequences of the humanitarian crisis. Because, through this budget, the government manages to guarantee social protection, but also economic activity in development, we support the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Gregos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. We often hear MPs say the characteristic expression "constitutional and anti-constitutional arch", considering the anti-constitutional arch obviously the Golden Dawn. That's stupid and insulting. It is stupid, above all, because by setting the Golden Dawn to the so-called "anti-constitutional bow" they cancel the very existence of the Parliament, cancel the popular will, parliamentary control and everything else. Of course it is insulting because they also offend hundreds of thousands of Golden Dawn voters. As far as the budget is concerned, the figures quoted by the government regarding the budget are false, pollen and similar to the lies we hear daily by an oral Prime Minister and Minister. For 2016, unemployment is projected to rise to at least 34.5%, at least ten thousand small and medium-sized enterprises, applying the increase in employers' contributions. That is what the Europeans are saying and pointing out to you. There is an increase in taxation in all kinds and services, reductions in main pensions, dismantling of health, education, national defence, blooming of smuggling and trafficking and increasing crime as a result of all this. The tactics and budgets implemented in previous years and now show to the most naive that New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA are essentially the same thing. The cloak's changing. We have unresolved problems and have increased in terms of education, health, national defence, foreign policy, problems that do not touch Members, but the people and only him. We have problems leading to our fellow citizens' suicides every day. Even one has killed himself because of financial difficulties is a crime that has a moral automobile. Not only did no one speak of justice, but few had the emotiveness to resign. Scandals, corruption, party state, retreat to national issues, anti-grass measures are charged to this government. What about the lists? What about the sea loans? It is not only the Prime Minister and the Ministers, but also those Members who support such governments. The Greek people must listen to this and ask the Members of the Independent Greeks first and perhaps the President of the Union of Centres for their responsibilities tomorrow. While the "Turkish Caliphate", a partner of the Islamic Caliphate, perishes in the Aegean with dozens of violations, cuts are made in the country's defence. Instead of informing Europeans that Turkey was, is, is and will be an enemy of Greece and Europe, the Prime Minister agrees with Merkel and Junker in Turkey's absurd and unacceptable demands for huge funds - and the worst of all - for unleashing the accession processes in the European Union. Let's ask again: What about the definition of EOZ? Of course, nothing. Instead of applying an economic embargo to Turkey, which would help Greek farmers and tourism, which are the pillars of the economy, they are doing the opposite. Going to a supermarket to shop, someone will see that there are olives from Turkey, lemons from Chile and anything else. As far as products from Turkey are concerned, it would be good for ordinary citizens to go shopping in a supermarket or in some shops selling clothing and see that these products come from this country, Turkey, to leave the product and even to say to the owner "you know, I don't shop this product because it comes from Turkey". This is something that the ordinary citizen can do as well. Reductions in wages and pensions, increases in the fees in the municipalities, slows down, and the people are on the verge of a nervous crisis. Instead of closing the power on the parties they owe and on the channels of interlocutory, you do it to ordinary citizens. Dissolve primary production and the small middle class. I told you before that the increase in employers' contributions would lead to massive redundancies and the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises. You have no support from the Greek people and there is a wave of rage coming. The Golden Dawn has solutions and suggestions on all issues. That is why the third political power has of course emerged again. Of course, no channel, no newspaper will show our seats. But our strength is our faith, the unity of our party and, above all, the popular mandate we receive in ongoing elections. I'll close with a saying that's broader. According to Thucydides "the traitor is not only the one who reveals his country's secrets to the enemies, but he is also the one who, while having a public office, does not take the necessary steps to improve the standard of living of the people on whom he is ruled". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u433	Mr. Karanastassis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2016 budget. It is the sixth budget submitted under the memorandum regime, a budget which, in every word, each number shows the need to ensure that the figures first come out, commitments for deficits and surpluses are met, and then efforts will be made to help the people and especially the weakest strata, but also to strengthen the actions that will lead the country to stable and lasting development in the future. The government of SYRIZA has been in a position since the first days of its existence to negotiate under the breakage of Grexit who were working foreign and domestic centres for gaps and omissions in the implementation of commitments made by its predecessors. In this dire landscape, the government has striven for an agreement which, despite all the difficulties in its implementation, should at the end have a development perspective. In the first phase she achieved her goal. He won the battle. It remains to be proved that this is a real victory, not a fiery victory. I now come to my main topics in the budget, the ESDP and the Public Investment Programme. The Public Investment Programme for 2016 is planned to reach EUR 6,75 billion, of which EUR 6 billion is for projects to be financed from European Union funds and EUR 7,50 million for projects to be financed exclusively from national resources. The Public Investment Programme for 2016 will be an important instrument to promote the development effort of the Greek economy. This objective will be served by intensifying the actions for the completion and closure of the NSRF programmes still in 2007-2013, which have not yet been closed, with the delay that we inherited from the mismanagement of our predecessors, the well-known ‘overbooking’ that we know about, as well as the speeding up of actions to start and implement the programmes in the new programming period 2014-2020. In particular, the significant contribution of the Public Investment Programme to the economic development of the country is reflected in the major infrastructure projects implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. The main categories of assistance in this area concern the development and modernisation of infrastructure and networks with a view to substantially improving the services provided. The programme is an important tool for creating conditions that enhance the competitiveness and productivity of the economy. The programme includes actions relating to the construction of the co-financed national road corridors and the new high-speed rail network which should have been completed for years and projects which, as we know, have been starting since 2007 and which have not yet been completed either. We are not doing projects for projects, or 'frauna' projects, which will never be implemented. The actions of the ESRB also place particular emphasis on the areas of entrepreneurship, particularly in the areas of manufacturing and tourism, where we need to integrate health tourism, employment, education and training, health and welfare, action on administrative reform. I am glad to see that the programs of the period 2014-2020 are starting to be activated. This is also evidenced by the fact that the first pre-publishments for sectoral entrepreneurship programmes, such as the EIAEC, a competitiveness and entrepreneurship programme, have already been published. In addition to the activation of the programmes, however, it is very important to design the new programmes in such a way that, at the moment, the NRP is the main, if not only, financial instrument of the country, to make the best use of the resources available to us with a better and better management of them than before. Here we must say that the absorption and, above all, the economic and social effectiveness of the ESDP programmes will be far less than expected, since the banking system cannot fulfil its key role, namely providing liquidity to the real economy. Therefore, the NSRP and its design are directly linked to the attempt - it seems - to recapitalise the banks. The same effort also involves an announcement of the creation of a development bank, because the main element of this planning must be the possibility of energising private capital, which will have a multiplier effect on the economy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the first budget presented by SYRIZA - I would remind you, because we grew up with a slogan, 15% for education - I would be happy if I could say that we have a budget with a left seal, with an emphasis on human needs and humanistic values, with a view to education and culture and ensuring what a modern state needs to provide its citizens. Unfortunately, it is not so and it is not from a governmental choice, but because this budget is not drafted by us. He was drawn up by the need in which the country is located and the commitments it has made for five years ago. We tried to soften the most disrespecting points and overall to make him a step for a better tomorrow, when we can put the seal of our beliefs and visions. For this wish and hope I will vote for the 2016 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u435	Thank you. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u436	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that, while the risk of economic Grexit in the summer and with the help of all Members, a painful agreement has been adopted, and you have negotiated and had sole responsibility, it does not seem that you have achieved this for Grexit as far as the Schengen Treaty is concerned. Today, just now, the Greek immigration commissioner strikes the Schengen bell, for the systematic violation that Greece is making in the Schengen Treaty, having left open, unregulated and without any control over its borders. And while all the countries around us are raising up walls and closing borders and while Europe is under the terrorist threat of jihadists, it has been shown that there are jihadists in our country without control. Our borders remain unguarded and open. We have not implemented one of the actions taken by the Prime Minister at the Council on 15 October, to which he has retreated on all the issues to which he should not give way, but we have not taken any action: the criminal decision on the four hot spots in Greece, none of them works. The strengthening of our land borders with the forces of FRONTEX has not been implemented. Today, as Mrs Bakoyannis quite rightly says in her question, apart from the fact that we can find ourselves very soon with a threat of exit from Schengen, we are also in a terrible financial damage, because your tolerance to all phenomena of lawlessness has exceeded every limit. The railway link between the country and Europe has been closed for twelve days with incalculable damage. It has been occupied by Syrian refugees, which you offer asylum, do not want, want to go to Europe, want to go to Germany. Skopje has closed the border and you sit down and look at them. You are looking at them taking over the railway line for twelve days, not carrying goods from and from the country, on the eve of the Christmas market and, of course, with a very great risk of the largest and most serious investment in the country and this is in the port of Piraeus. Because what was the reason why the investment and the strategic alliance of Greece - China took place in Piraeus? It was done to get Chinese goods faster access to Europe. Now they cannot go to the train, which the bad government, the memorandum or the previous one, finally made it connected to the port of Piraeus. What does that mean? It means that the ships are already going to Croatia's ports and we lose considerable benefits. At the same time, it proves something. Mr Varoufakis, with his rich shirts, may not have succeeded in dismantling the euro area with all that he has tried to do over the past period, but it seems that the policy of Tsipras, Christodoulou, Kammenos and all the others can put a bomb on the foundations of the Schengen Agreement. I have told you many times - and I said this as a minister responsible for the safety of the sea borders - that keeping the sea borders is not an option, it is not something that we do so every time we want. We are obliged, not only by our domestic law, but also by European conditions. Do you know what happened this year in the Aegean? Last year with war in Syria, again with 5 million people who were refugees, our maritime borders crossed thirty - four thousand illegal immigrants. This year, until today when we're talking, do you know what the number is? Six hundred and eighty thousand of them have passed from the Aegean! You're responsible for this! You are responsible, because when tourist guides come out for immigrants - there are - what do they say? They say that things have changed in Greece since February 2015 and now we have a government much more tolerant. You haven't exploited...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u437	That is why we have had an increase in tourism this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u438	I'm presenting it for the Minutes. You can see the whole text online. [[At this point the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I say to you: you have not exploited at all, but at all the European funds allocated to dealing with immigration. You have only received EUR 7 million of the 100 at our disposal. You are still carrying out a policy that is dangerous with economic impact, an economic impact for the country, for its shipping, after the ship is gone, the currency is reduced, the fleet is reduced and, of course, the results that Mr Tsipras has taken on his own in the long run, without consulting anyone, without consulting the political leaders on 15 October and so far you have not been able to implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the debate in the next few days and I finally ask you to stand up to the circumstances and not put the country into a new adventure. Of course, I am also voting against both your Government and the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u439	Thank you. Mrs. Panayota Dritsel has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u440	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u441	Please, Minister, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u442	I would like to talk about the issues to which Mr Varvitsiotis referred.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u443	We cannot have that dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u444	What's this? He won't answer every Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u445	I'm sorry, Mr. Yakumato, there is a Bureau. If you want to come, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u446	I have the right to ask why...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u447	Listen to me, no one deprives you of the right. However, it cannot be said for any Member who is speaking and who is speaking, the Minister, whoever Minister, is speaking on behalf of the government, etc. We're not going to take it that way. We said to keep a schedule. We're eating the time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u448	The Minister is taking the floor whenever he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u449	Keep it tight, Mr. President, because I don't know what's going on here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, because I have made Vice-President of Parliament, the Minister has a right...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u451	Mrs. Drittelli, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u452	The Minister can take the floor. If that's possible! Does the Minister have the right to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u453	Mr President, if he talks, we'll have the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u454	Then I will give the floor to the Minister and then to the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u455	But that's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u456	What's not right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u457	We have to take the floor later, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u458	I want to clarify some of the things that have been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u459	I'm so sorry, I already called Mrs. Dritselli. I repeat - and the Minister will speak for two minutes. Have you asked, Mr. Loverdos, for the reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u460	Is it possible that the Minister cannot take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u461	Excuse me, why are you yelling now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u462	But the Minister asks why and you don't give him a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u463	And why would he give the floor? What's the Minister? The Pope?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u464	The Rules of Procedure say so clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u465	With the voices, what are you gonna make? Are you going to make any results? What exactly do you want? I'll give the Minister the floor. I beg your pardon very much, but if you want to set these procedures, you should come and set them. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u466	The president's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u467	Mrs. Drittelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr President. I never expected that, in a debate such as today, in one of the top budget debates in the country, the Civic Opposition would take the opportunity to make such an inexpensive criticism of such an issue, Mr Varvitsiotis, such as the refugee who has shocked the international community and, in fact, without exhausting all your speech in an inexpensive criticism without any proposal, when the representative of the New Democracy in the convergence of the Council of Civilian Heads had nothing to do with any proposal at all. It also opposed the European commitments in the country to establish the refugee flows identification centres. I recommend that we keep our temper for these issues, that we not proceed to such xenophobic deliriums because they have other consequences.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u469	Go to Idomeni!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u470	What was the xenophobic delirium?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u471	Please, let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u472	Mrs Drittelli, don't trigger the debate now. Well done so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u473	First of all, you have linked the refugee to terrorism. That was the first and great blow you did, and I never expected it from you. So I also strongly recommend a sense of responsibility because we have said many times that at this stage you are not undermining the government, but you are undermining the country's international position. I shall now proceed to the debate on the budget. We are talking today about the 2016 budget and not only today but all these days until Saturday. I say again that this is one of the top moments of the Greek Parliament. For us, this day is even more special, as it is the first budget that is tabling a left-wing government. It is a budget which actually demonstrates our priorities, on the one hand, the country's effort to get out of the deep recession and the crisis at last and, on the other, to stand alongside all these people who have been tested and affected by recession and austerity in recent years. So this budget is the first act of a coordinate course that we have started since January to leave behind yesterday and build public finances on a more solid and realistic basis. The 2016 budget therefore enters in its forecasts almost zero recession, low primary pragmatic surpluses and budgetary equilibrium, while at the same time not demolishing the social protection and the public character of a number of social goods. Although some difficult and forward-looking measures are in place in this budget - and I would like to add that we have never tried to make any kind of argument and no difficult situation, which we are all experiencing - and that is what no one can question - the hard efforts of the government to protect the weak and the most vulnerable groups. This budget has quite a few features, the most important of which is that it has a social sign, that it extends a grid of protection to our fellow people who are at the moment being hit more than ever, is weakening inequality, but at last it inspires the sense of law. The social budget, then, is health and public hospitals, for the first time after many years, are being advocated and introduced and a number of measures are being introduced to strengthen the weakest, such as supporting the incomes of the elderly living below the poverty line, and with this budget you are showing the Government's sensitivity to contain the negative consequences of the crisis. However, the 2016 budget also reflects a number of successes of the government's tough negotiation with lenders, an effort which has been well undermined but has also been undermined in the past few months. The success of this negotiation is also reflected in this budget. The objective, therefore, for 0.5% of primary surpluses for 2016, leaves virtually a budget space for improving the results of the Greek economy and at the same time creates the conditions for returning to growth within the year. The best performance in relation to GDP growth, as many predict, will lead to wider reductions and to an increase in the real economy over the next few months. If the government had not fought hard for the new deal with creditors, this year's budget would have had to incorporate new measures of several billion euros, of course because of the commitment to a primary surplus of 4.5% that the previous government had received. So those who are calling today and swinging our fingers are the ones who led the economy to disaster, then the lenders agree to strangle the country's productive fabric with these predictions of these primary surpluses. This is the reality, and as much as some today are trying hypocritically to hide behind their cries, the responsibilities for the collapse of the Greek economy are given and they are being blamed and the citizens are fortunately aware of it. It would also be useful to stress that the government in this year's budget makes superhuman efforts to support social goods, such as education and sport. Already with his interventions, the Ministry of Education ensured the coverage of gaps in public education, while in critical areas such as student care, every effort was made to support the Greek family as was done in sport and it is necessary to support athletes and structures in the uninterrupted preparation of the national teams for the 2016 Olympic Games. In this direction too, there is a great deal of effort to ensure that all the necessary resources are provided for the smooth functioning of the national stages, while the General Secretariat of Sport is preparing a series of substantial interventions to support athletes in their preparation. We are sure that this effort will continue and will be intensified so that our country can be represented in the struggles without any hindrance at all. In conclusion, I would like to stress that, despite the difficulties of the citizens, they know that this government is genuinely aimed at society without mood and conscious of the difficulties ahead. The obstacles have not yet been overcome, but it is certain that, in terms of efficiency and the last difficulties, we can already move from the next few months to a phase of stable growth in the real economy. Our ambitious goal is, therefore, to disprove even more positively within the real economy the forecasts of the budget and to gain with our efforts the prosperity and progress for society and for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u474	Mr. Sgurides asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u476	Yeah, excuse me. Minister, I'm sorry, Mr. Varvitsiotis is right. You have the floor for a minute, Mr Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, I know that it is very annoying to speak on personal grounds and to do procedural things and terminology in this House. But, a little while ago, I was accused of a xenophobic delirium, when I said what all Europe is saying today and for which it has closed its borders, it is increasing its degree of security, it controls its airports, its trains, its streets, that is to say, there is a direct link between the refugee flows and the jihadists entering them. This is something that has happened, unfortunately, Mr President. I do not want to go on with this ball, but I am afraid, Mr President, that the lightness with which we are dealing with this issue will lead us to bad results and the way in which some colleagues see it and the lightness with which it is dealt with scares me. It scares me. It doesn't make me happily happy as a member of the counterpopulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Mr. Varvichiotis. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u479	Less than two minutes. I know the Rules of Procedure very well. I lamented for eleven years Vice-President of the House. I know very well when you can ask why and when you can take him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u480	Tell us, Mr. Sgurides, because we're younger and we don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u481	The years 1993-2004.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u482	What a time you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u483	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u484	I respect the budgetary procedure, and I do not want to block it, but I would like to know about some things from what Mr Varvitsiotis said from the Step. The problem in Idomeni exists. Indeed, the lines have been occupied by part of immigrants and refugees. However, I can inform you that this issue will be resolved within the next few days. The second thing I want to know about is that all cargoes are moved through Bulgaria, from Strymon to Bulgaria. In any case, they have an economic cost. This financial cost will see how it will be covered. The third thing I wanted to say is that Mr Varvitsiotis compares two disparate years, in 2014 with 2015, on the issue of the flow of refugees and immigrants. It's the day after night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u485	Sure. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u486	The fourth point I wanted to say is that, from our land borders, no refugee and no immigrant have been crossed. Those who have passed have crossed the sea borders. In support of what he said they have closed their borders in Bulgaria, they have closed their borders in Skopje, they have closed their borders in Serbia, etc. The land borders are kept. As far as seas, as you know, and for reasons of human law, you cannot sink boats.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u487	Thank you, Minister. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, had asked for the floor. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u488	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I take this opportunity, since the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, is also present, to ask, for the next few days, that the Bureau be consulted, because if the ministers intervene in every speech by a colleague, then our right to intervene and we do not want to. For example, now with Mr Varvitsiotis' speech, the unauthorized Minister, Mr. Sguridis, has taken the floor, while an issue is under way...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u489	Unauthorized? Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u490	I'm not saying you don't know the matter. I didn't say that. I said you're not the minister responsible. We are facing developments, which today also saw the light of publicity, from the front page of 'Kathimerini' and which made me a terrible impression, because it is exactly the same as the position I have heard recently, two days ago, by the Independent MEP, Mr Maria and the same by three more Greek MEPs in the previous days, that is to say, that there is a question of our country's existence in the Schengen context. If the House does not have information from the Deputy Minister responsible, Mr Muzala, then all references to this matter will enable all colleagues, from all parties, from the Parliamentary Representatives, to take the floor and ask, ask the government for clarification or if anyone else sees it, to criticise the government. I could do it right now. I have taken the floor, for the first time, to say that the ministers should be a little self-restricted, so that we do not hinder the process after we have conflicts with the Bureau, and secondly, to ask the Deputy Minister, as soon as possible, on this matter, to put us in a position of responsibility, to inform us and thus to discuss the dialogue in question, so that there is no conflict on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u492	Ladies and gentlemen, on the previous issue and by listening to our parliamentary representative, I feel the need to say, for my part too, that there is no conflict between humanity on the one hand and the need to safeguard the European Union, the Schengen Treaty and, in particular, the security of European citizens. This is a bet, which should also be won by the country. On the contrary, what we see is inappropriate, lost resources, no plan. And I would remind Members here of the Com mittee and of our proposal, particularly for the pilot implementation of hot spots in Turkey and Lebanon, particularly as regards mothers, pregnant women and children. However, Europe and the country are not only upset by the refugee and threat of terrorists, they are also upset by a crisis and at its core is always our country. These days last year, ladies and gentlemen, from this Step of the House, the Vice-Presidents of the European Parliament then went up and said a lot about the thirteenth pension for the new social person - we heard them today, what awkward! - the abolition of ENVIRONMENT. A paradise was promised. All of them. And of course the Greek people believed them. Today, close to Christmas, not only the thirteenth pension does not exist but the range of additional pension cuts is deceased and not just. This budget is being discussed, ladies and gentlemen, while the country has been overwhelmed by months of negotiation and by total drainage of all its reserves. The current President of Parliament, in his capacity at the time, as Minister of Interior, said that "we even did capital controls". I invoke Mr Voutsi's interview with the radio 'Kokkino'. Everything has been drained, the country has dragged and all this has been done to make the tough negotiation, which you are celebrating here. What negotiation? The toughest memorial of all of it? What negotiation? The caravan, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, is being drawn by the lenders. And the masks in the "caravan" have fallen. Your only happiness is that the 'dogs', you know, not only don't hesitate, not only do they prey on people's courts, but they also had the honesty, not to be Grexit, to vote for the agreement, these 'dogs', which you even devour today. So that the 'caravan' does not collapse, you should see what you are doing and leave beauty and levelling, because I heard here that we have - it says - extra resources for social protection and additional person social protection. Did you say anything about saving 1.65 billion from pension? Have you reported reductions in this social budget by EUR 287 million compared to 2015, while costs are expected to increase by EUR 823 million, compared to 2015? And why did all this happen? Because you have otherwise been very relaxed. And I ask you. In this budget, or in any government act, is there a development plan? I heard a colleague from the Independent Greeks talking about entrepreneurship. We must, he says, stimulate entrepreneurship. What's your plan for developing this country? Fighting beer and when wine? When the Squirrels and when one investment after the other? How will multi-polar employment come without a development plan without social protection with a plan? And I'm coming to this. What's your plan for the insurance? Will we ever see it? Why are you playing the priest for weeks now, not to say for months? And where's the famous dialogue? Are the political leaders being gathered to make a wishlist that Mr. Tsipras will use and tell them here? Is that it? Why can't Mr. Tsipras negotiate and he signed what was finally taken to his knees in July 2015? Please tell me. We owe as a serious party - and we have suffered a great deal of political cost from this seriousness - to be honest in the face of the insurance problem and to have tabled our own proposal, which also has difficulties. He says with three "no" and says "no" to pensions in increasing contributions and abolishing the CSCE. Pensions can't be cut. It's incomplete, and we know it's been cut. I am not going to look forward to making or making a zero speech 'all good and all good'. Yes, for the same reasons that you invoke today, we cut pensions, but no longer can be done. We have to go to another type of insurance policy. We have publicly tabled our proposal and with regard to the great reform of the L. 3863, which can be applied earlier, by 2020 and by reducing further the contributions through the reorganisation and restructuring of an insurance system with particular emphasis on the OGA and OSH. We believe that this great unification must lead to three funds. And since you were in the mood to present your own proposals, which we have not yet seen, we have said that, yes - and I say this here, from the Stephen of this House - ladies and gentlemen, we will be present in any institutional dimension in the dialogue on insurance. But, in games and terraces, we cannot participate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want it to be tolerated by the Bureau for one or two more minutes. I want to show you first...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u493	Just a minute, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, and you're done. Please, because we're close to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u494	Mr President, when the MPs were speaking for eight and nine minutes, we weren't talking. Well, two minutes, I need and I'll finish. I'll talk a little bit about what you've done with the hospitals. You know, from last year to this year from sixty-eight thousand five hundred in 2014 to some five hundred public hospital workers today we have sixty-two thousand workers. It's the pensions. No one blames you for that. Watch out. But what have you done? What was there? There was planning for four and a half thousand jobs in hospitals. There was an act of Ministerial Council and a respective law in 2014 for there to be some seven hundred recruitments. These, ladies and gentlemen, are not the Minister of Health - but I really want this to be heard, because in ten months you have done nothing. Is that enough of that hire? Why are you going to do it? Mr. Xanthos announced it, and I think he'll come here to tell us again. Well done, I say. In 2017 they will be. Is that enough? What is your health plan, its great primary care and its restructuring over chronic diseases? What's your health plan? Apart from sort of checking the system, I haven't seen you do anything or presented something as a plan. In fact, what you do in health is to make a solution to the issues and you show, apart from a lack of plan and a complete inability to deal with the current problems. I conclude with one word for the ESDP, because we have heard many and great words about the ESDP. Ladies and gentlemen, because we have heard about overbooking to tell you about frontloading, the forward dimension. All the actions for the unemployed of 800 million euros have been forward as early as 2014 with our actions. What happened and they weren't implemented? You wanted to redesign them. Your right, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are, you are to What happened until then? What's happened since then? What program has he gone through with these? Today we hear that they are now going to be forward-looking. In other words, you are announcing what the previous government has done and you have done nothing about these resources for ten months. For these reasons and for many others, and because social persons are easily dropped, it is time for seriousness, for consultation. However, we as a responsible and serious opposition cannot vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u495	Mr. Kaisha has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is a fact. Who was waiting for him a year ago? In other words, sadness and sadness cannot be tolerated by the first SYRIZA - ANEL budget. Is he the one we wanted, though? The question is for us. Of course, he is not the one we wanted and we should justify why he is not. We must say under what conditions this budget has become. We must not forget that it has been below 25% of GDP loss, 25% -26% unemployment, farmers' debts, hospitals, since 2010, thousands of people made redundant from the private sector and from the public sector, hospitals, schools, etc. and 1/4 of the population below the poverty line, without access to food and health services. This budget has been made under these circumstances. Some tell us that in December 2014 the country was ready to come out of the crisis but SYRIZA wanted elections and wanted president and wanted one and the other and stopped this development. In other words, we are told to return to 31-12-2014. Here you will allow me if I tell you what I experienced personally as a doctor from 2012 to 2014. In Alexandroupolis, in 2012, we set up a voluntary social office together with the Medical Association, the Medical Association, Metropolis, the Municipality and a team of volunteers. This social hospital at the time examined three and a half thousand patients uninsured, inoculated nine children uninvasively and administered thousands of boxes of medicine to people who did not have access to health. That was the situation and those who forget it make a big mistake. Is this budget confronted with problems? What I have to say is that they were given by this government to the budget last year, 2015, 150,000,000 euros to the health sector. The new anticipates 300,000,000 euros. They may not get there, but it's a step important. The previous colleague left to hear what I'm about to say. The positions that had been cleared in the previous period, five years, from the health field, are sixteen thousand without one being appointed. What did this government do? It triggered the crises that had taken place during this five - year period with the doctors of the HR and were not appointed and appointed. The first doctors have already been assigned to hospitals who have not been appointed this five-year period. Of course, other nursing staff posts were announced and the total number is three and a half thousand. For the sixteen thousand who left, the three and a half thousand seats are few, but for a year I think they're enough to support the system. That is what has been said about the health sector, which has been a great deal of talk about by previous speakers. Another issue that has been raised is solidarity. There is criticism that it was little the 200 million that this government was able to secure for solidarity. We will agree that it was very little, but I must tell you that they arrived at the beneficiaries the way we managed them, with each card, to get in the amount and cash out. What do I mean here? I'm going to give you an example from my home country again. Among the many services that exist, state, welfare, work, the Ministry of Health, non-governmental organisations, in Evros Law at the moment has twenty-eight organisations, twenty-eight agencies dealing with solidarity, drug protection, reintegration and not getting together. Twenty-eight presidents, twenty-eight boards, twenty-eight! Nobody knows who's covering and overlapping. One of these services has fifteen employees, the beneficiaries are 12, its monthly cost is 20,000 euros. 18,000 goes to fixed service expenses and 2,000 goes to the beneficiaries, that is, 10% of the money granted. That is why we have a state of clientele, corrupt, and there is no control. Of course, it wants substantial overthrows in all areas of this state. Our path is a long way to start, but it has been done. The second budget for the SYRIZA - ANEL will be much better than the first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u497	Mr Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u498	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm getting a little quick on the last one. Mr. Colleague, you're not very well read. Our government had approved in the Board of Government Reform for 2015. Fortunately, Mrs Christophilopoulou - four and a half thousand recruitments in health, two and a half thousand doctors and two thousand nurses are there. These four and a half thousand recruitments, which we had enrolled in the 2015 budget, were even announced as directly persevering by Alexis Tsipras in the first week that he became Prime Minister visiting the Minister of Health, Mr Kurublis. I, had said, although they had my signature, "Let's do it and say it's yours too, the world didn't spoil." After 11 months you come and tell us in the House that you will do it in 2016. That is, you lost all over 2015. You also said there was no intake. Also wrong. When I went to the Ministry of Health, there were nine hundred doctors waiting since the 2011 competition, we hired the six hundred. They were the only ones left available, because the remaining three hundred had found jobs elsewhere and were not interested in continuing to get into the process. We have, in other words, completed the recruitments that have been pending since 2011. So what you said is wrong. Better, when you come to the Step of the House, be better read. Now we're going to the point. Not only did you not improve health finances, but you sent them to the rock. Politics, you know, ladies and gentlemen, it's applied art, it's not dorms and theories, it's deeds. You have received to EEAS 600 million outstanding debts. Do you know how much it is today? It's 2 billion 200 million. Do you know what will say that you have gone through the EEA debts from 600 million to 2 billion 200 million? That you've left everyone unpaid. You know what that means? He'll say the National Health System is at risk by total collapse. So coming here and doing us lessons about how well you did to health, I'm sorry, but it's above rivers. Be better read. It is obviously one of your first speeches, but because it is a budget speech and the budget is figures and figures and not theories to be better read.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u499	I've been working forty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u500	You need fifty years to find out. Forty wasn't enough. So I'm actually going now, ladies and gentlemen. Where were we in 2014 in the corresponding budget debate and where in 2015? In 2014, we were talking about a 30% reduction in the solidarity levy. You said SYRIZA's words: "This is an extraordinary tax it had to be completely abolished." Now you took him to the plus 30%, that is, you brought him back to the previous levels. What else were we talking about? For the 2.7% growth planned for 2015. What did you do? A 2.3% drop and you predict 0.7% remission of time. Unfortunately, if you stay in power it will be much worse. And why would it be much worse? Now, listen, because it's gonna be a lot worse. Because in the same budget you have tabled, while on one hand you predict a recession of 0.7% of GDP, the same budget provides for an increase in tax revenue of 2.2 billion. So you will get 2.2 billion more, according to what you say, from an economy that is 0.7% of GDP less, according to what you say. So you'll get a lot more taxes than many more people. Most taxes by many more people what does it mean? It means recession, the economy will brake and that will lead you to a new vicious circle that we will constantly go down. So don't expect a better year in 2016 with your Government but wait for what unfortunately will come, that is, much worse, because you don't know how to do this slavery and you're really dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u501	Make your elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u502	Listen, Mr. Colleague, I'm very pleased because I hadn't noticed you. I had spent all the election time listening to Mr Alexis Tsipras shouting in his election speech "The New Democracy has this Adoni, which said that if there was no Memorandum, we should have invented it." Mr. Tsipras told Chania, said so in his speech in Athens, he said so in his speech in Kavala. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. Colleague, do you know the pleasure you gave me that day to SKAI, when you said, as a SYRIZA MEP, talking about insurance, that if there was no Memorandum we should have invented it? I don't understand what the worst I said from what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u503	You're chiefs of perversion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u504	We said exactly the same. And now listen, ladies and gentlemen, and the very best: Mr Mardas, Minister of SYRIZA, appeared yesterday. And here's what Mr Mardas told us. "The previous governments" - Andreas said about you - "they were cowards, because they did not apply all the memorials", Mr Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u505	I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u506	Do you hear what your coordinator says, Mr. Mardas?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u507	I shall ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u508	But that's why I'm doing it. Do you hear what your coordinator says, Mr Mardas, that previous governments were cowards, why did not all the memorials apply? What memos now? These memorials, for which Mr Tsipras and you were telling us germans, traitors, and who are now worshipped - which you did not like as opposition - not only signed them as government, but you blame us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u509	The 200 million you owe the banks?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u510	You said you were going to take the personal speech after, why interrupt me, why don't you compare?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u511	No, he won't. Mr Georgiadis, please continue your speech and do not address Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u512	We are coming back, so that the Greek people can hear the size of mocking. [[On this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] SYRIZA's Minister, Mr Mardas, told us that the previous governments were cowardices, because they did not apply all the memorials, when we had Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA here to be beaten from morning until night, because we were trying to make the reforms provided for by the agreements. These simply reveal the size of your policy of ungratefulness, which today - I must note this, ladies and gentlemen - has been given new heights with Mr Kostas Zourari's speech. And I am sorry that none of the ANELs are here. Mr. Zouraris came and made an amazing speech - I sign it all, masterpiece - for the continuation of the Greek nation. He even said how much he blames these ethnic leaders, who question the continuity of the Greek nation. He is the same Mr. Zouraris, who casts a vote of confidence in the government of Mr. Tsipras, and also Mr. Phil, Minister of Education, who not only disputes the genocide of Pontian Hellenism, but who, as the head of the committee that controls school books, Mr. Liako. If Mr. Zouraris does not know, Mr. Liakos is the chief university who teaches the discontinuance of the Greek nation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u513	For the junta... (It didn't sound).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u514	What does that have to do with anything, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no relationship!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u516	We're talking about the continuity of the Greek nation and you're telling me about Juda?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u517	Stop interfering, please. Mr. Georgiade, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u518	Listen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u519	Nor will we now establish a dialogue with the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u520	You called the world tomorrow to strike the SYRIZA Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u521	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u522	So you call on the world to strike against the budget, which you will vote on in two days. And you've got your face and you're making suggestions to me? Do you have the face? Hey, please too! And a little embarrassment!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u523	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u524	Bring the millions you owe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u525	Tomorrow you will vote and tomorrow you will blame your government and invite people to strike. You wouldn't drive us crazy, gentlemen. Okay? To conclude, therefore, Mr Zouraris cannot at the same time blame the nationalists and those who do not then believe the Greek nation and at the same time give a vote of confidence to Mr. Friends and thus allow Mr. Liakos, who likened the Macedonians to the jihadists and who teaches that we are not Greek but something else, to make the news - he says - our school books. Dear Mr. Zurari, it's not both. Select which one you want. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u526	Mr. Georgiadis, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u527	I had four vacations, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u528	You also challenge them on vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u529	You'll be president tomorrow... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u530	Thank you very much. Yes, I'll be president in a few days. Don't worry. And then you'll listen to me as much as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u531	If you're making an election...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u532	Will you be quiet? Quiet, please. You're not helping the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u533	You owe so many millions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u534	Don't get upset. I reminded you of your statement and you're upset? It was a nice statement. I commend you for your statement. It was right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u535	I'll... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u536	Thank you very much. You should go and vote for me. Now listen. I will be sorry for your friend Panos Kammenos, who said yesterday "vote anyone you want outside of Adoni Georgiadis" but what to do is happen. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] To close, what is the substance: The 2014 budget was - when we were discussing the corresponding debate in 2014 for 2015 - a debate of optimism for the future, and the 2015 budget for 2016 is a pessimism debate. This is the real result of SYRIZA Government. That's what you messed up. You need to leave as soon as you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u537	Madam Minister, you have asked for the floor. Just two minutes, please. [[Noise in the Chamber]] A little quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u538	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u539	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u540	Because in this House - and recently - we have experienced incidents that have led to a beating of a Member, Mr Kumoucascus, I would recommend that when we talk about scientific matters, we have another approach and not try to get all the populism out of it. Be careful. Everyone can be far-right, be what they want, be their right, but it is the right of scientists to do their research and not be politicized...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u541	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u542	Mr. Fortsakis can speak. He has the right to and not to be targeted, as people have been targeting in recent years and especially in recent times, in the most disgraceful and vulgar way that we have seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u543	For himself, not in schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u544	Not even the Minister of Government speaks like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u545	Where you have seen written that Mr. Liakos has said that Greeks are not Greeks, I would very much like you to present it here in the minutes of the Parliament. Whatever is said here will be haunted. If he's written it anywhere, bring it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u546	Good. Thank you, Minister. Mr. Giokas has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u547	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u548	Please. There's nothing personal at all. It's not personal. Read the Rules of Procedure what it refers to as regards the staff you invoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u549	He made an insulting reference...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u550	To you? Please, it's not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u551	Give him the floor. Why do you deprive him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u552	Give him the word, to melt Tsipra a little. Because he's got days to melt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u553	Mr. Yakumate, please! Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u554	Ladies and gentlemen, while following today's debate, all you can say is that it is really a courage, a huge challenge for SYRIZA Members to come out of the morning and talk about social sensitivity and justice for a budget that contains tough measures of ECU 5.7 billion. from new taxes, carpets and cuts up to the abolition of the ESS, plus all the previous ones that remain and 92% of these measures will be imposed on the people, while capital will be charged from little to nothing, and it will come out of many other privileges. Unless the SYRIZA MPs consider it social sensitivity to be cut by the poor - the privileged, as you say, because they are receiving a pension of over EUR 800-900 - to give the poor - and if they take this - to the poorest. But that is not social sensitivity, nor social justice. That's the definition of mocking. We are also watching the monotonous and hypocritical controversy, the New Democracy and PASOK MPs criticise the government, to SYRIZA, for measures that they have themselves voted on and carried out previously as governments and the SYRIZA MPs respond to this criticism, saying that you yourself have done the same and worse. This is the controversy we have heard from yesterday and today throughout the day. What does this controversy show? In our view, this is the essence that at least we want to show the Greek people. The fact that instead of it is a block of political forces, which alters roles and arguments depending on whether they are in the government or are in the opposition, a block of forces that coincides with the strategic objective, namely that on the altar of recovery of the economy, on the altar of profitability and the competitiveness of capital, all labour rights must be sacrificed, and these political forces are competing for who will have the upper hand and who will take responsibility and the political cost of measures that they have jointly voted on. That is what the debate over recent days shows and the debate on the consensus we have heard in recent days. The budget and this debate, ladies and gentlemen, are the most celebratory proof that SYRIZA has fully joined the capital plans, both soul and body. And we say soul and body, because not only do you implement a barbaric, class policy within the 2016 budget, but you adopt and reproduce all those arguments of the New Democracy and PASOK, so that this policy can be accepted by the Greek people. And you are giving the right to your policy and to your argument to Mr Georgiadis, who spoke before, who was the most genuine expressionist of anti-grassroots policies, to appear justified. On the one hand there is Mr Georgiadis' courage, on the other hand there is your responsibility, which gives him that right with your policy. So, all you said a few months ago, to justify the agreement, that you were blackmailed, that you had to, that we did not want but what to do, all this ended with the budget and with what the budget says, that there are necessary reforms that need to be implemented. These are the reforms, the structural measures at work, the insurance, which the government has agreed and implemented. You have voted and implemented an agreement, because it imposes the interests of its capital and its economy, which you are consciously serving. Both the memoranda and the second and the third Memorandum of yours are nothing else, despite the concentrated measures that have now taken the chapter and the European Union. That is why those governments that choose to manage this system and its laws will not only follow barbaric anti-grassroots policies, but will also adopt that propaganda, those arguments to justify it. So does the current government. One is the difference, one is the main difference between the current government and the former ones. It is that you as young managers, and even with a left-hand past, can easily deceive the people and even a people who have learned, and on your own responsibility, that the system is just some lame, some interdependent, some parties that have ruled, that anti-grass policy is only a matter of bad and dishonest management and not a result of strategic choices of a class, the order of capitalist states, which, in order to perpetuate its profits and its power, must be bankrupt by the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This ability we recognize that you have it. Of course, it won't last long. And since you have this ability, you are today the most capable of carrying out the dirty work - we say it again - on behalf of capital, to do what they did not do, that they did not complete or did not have time to do. And finally let all those tears we heard yesterday and the Prime Minister at the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group meeting that "the system is fighting us." What system is fighting you? Is BSE fighting you? Are the bankers fighting you? Is the European Union fighting you? Well, don't talk now about the United States and NATO, who really play their change for your parties. So what system is fighting you? And when they criticize you - and there are also those who criticise you - it is critically convenient for you to go ahead in order to implement the agreement that you have voted on more quickly. All of you, however, drink water in the name of social consensus, cohesion, stability, which actually means one thing. Cemetery silence, cemetery silence on the people's side. Even Minister of Government came out a few days ago and said that strikes and mobilisations - he says - are outside the European framework. Mrs. Jackie said it a week ago. We say it, we've said it, and we'll see you again. This social consensus, stability will be fought with all our powers. Because your stability...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u555	Finish, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u556	...is the greatest instability for the people and their rights. The same must be done for the people, not to be afraid of the instability of the urban political system, rather than to strengthen it, to broaden it up with their struggle and to shape the conditions in association with the JRC for radical overthrows. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u557	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and nine teachers attendants from the 2nd Esperino PAPAL Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Aristides Fokas has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u558	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the'second time left' government comes to show that the lie is short of legs. You have certainly given clear examples of what will follow. However, even the most pessimistic could not wait for this absolute shock described on the budget pages. It is a budget of poverty, of extreme austerity, of social impoverishment for employees and pensioners. It is a budget that abolishes social structures, cancels the welfare state, gives the final blow to the middle-class, which has to pay extra taxes of EUR 3.2 billion. And you have the political courage to come to this room and tell us that growth will return in 2016. It's obvious you've lost all contact with reality. You cannot understand that this budget, at least in the proceeds, is doomed to fail. And this. because, of course, because of the policies implemented by the previous governments, you have exhausted the Greeks' fiscal capacity. 'Uk if you have owls than you have.' The movement "I don't pay", which experienced a special blossom when you were opposition, is replaced by the deep majority of society, which can no longer pay. And to these citizens, who have cheated in the election campaign, by pointing everything out to everyone, you have not asked for a sincere apologies, only you have told us that you are sad. As if this will only delete your enormous responsibilities. Unfortunately, for you - and above all, unfortunately, for the country - your complete alignment with your predecessors' policy leads the country into the abyss. And instead of seeking real partnerships with a spirit of understanding, wisdom, unity, promoting national interest, you are looking for accomplices. And when you didn't find them, you remembered the complication again, accusing the Centroon Union of being allegedly guided by the great interests. Well, we are not all the same, ladies and gentlemen. In our party there is also a patronage, there is dignity, we honor and we respect those who trusted us in their vote. That is why, Mr President-in-Office, I am telling you that, on your own, you will take the road, ladies and gentlemen. You will know what political honesty, consistent attitude, political morality and above all political dignity. With regard to the budget figures we have in our hands, your tax policy is unpolicy. It rests on medium and long-term planning. It is a vision, a substance, logic, development and perspective and, above all, it is lacking in revenue. Instead of boosting consumption, tax what's moving. Only see what happens with the ESDP programme. You know it's small and medium-sized enterprises that give permanent jobs to unemployed people. We are calling for a greater number of these enterprises to be strengthened through the ESRB programmes, with a budget revision. And we stressed in the Committee on Regions that a basic condition for the integration of an enterprise into the NSRP and the amount of subsidy it will receive should be the jobs it will offer to the unemployed. We also pointed out that we should give a higher percentage of the ESRB money to small and medium-sized enterprises, proving that we support and encourage growth by means of actions. The answer of the Secretary of State for Finance was that it was impossible to review the programmes at this stage. This means that small and medium-sized enterprises lose all hope of funding for valuable breaths. In 2016, ladies and gentlemen, it will be the year of the locks. The reason is obvious. Exploitation by taxes and raisins is not meant. We will have a greater increase in unemployment, a new descent in revenue, new taxes and a continuation in desperation. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that you have thrown down the previous ones not to smash the memorial into Syntagma Square, but to implement your own third memorandum, the hardest and most burdensome of all. And you still have the courage to exhaust your left hand in costumes without ties, at the same time dismantling the Greek people with uncollected tax-springs. As I mentioned these logics, I bring you a small example that is linked to the famous fight against tax evasion, which everyone wants and never applies. Carrying with a 20% cap on the games of the OPAP, pushing people into illegal betting, depriving significant revenues from the public funds. At the same time, you are increasing traffic charges, you are gradually abolishing the reimbursement of excise duty on oil, increasing the income tax rates on farmers, abolishing the exemptions from the obligation to pay HPAI and much more. At least take responsibility. Stop pretending left-wing. Stop leaning on our minds and on democracy. This party will not allow Kammenos - Tsipras to become Leventis - Tsipras. The Centro Association is voting against the budget and calls for the restoration of reason at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u559	Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u560	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the State Budget for the financial year 2016 takes place in the light of the revised forecast of almost zero recession in 2015, which, as the government's financial staff confirms, will in 2016 be limited to 0.7% with prospects of further decline, while it is also estimated that in the second half of 2016, the Greek economy can return to positive growth rates. As a consequence of this forecast for a recession below initially calculated, the financial adjustment of the programme agreed with lenders is limited by EUR 500 million. The current primary surplus target for 2016 is 0.5%, while on the basis of the previous programme it would be 4.5%. The cost of the measures it would need to meet this objective, given that the corresponding targets for 2014 and 2015 are not met, is certain to exceed EUR 10 billion. For the first time after a whole five years the budget submitted is designed to contribute to the achievement of the three main objectives of government policy. Firstly, the budgetary balance, secondly, the withdrawal of the recession and the entry of the economy into a development orbit and thirdly, the brave reinforcement of the social budget. I am also going to stand by the commonly professed social figure of the budget under discussion. This first left-wing government budget in Greece gives great weight to increasing social costs. In particular, it provides for increased costs of EUR 823 million for the vital health and education sectors of society, to support employment and combat unemployment and the deep humanitarian crisis that testifies to the country's social fabric. For example, health costs are projected to increase by EUR 300 million to cover, among others, our uninsured fellow citizens. In addition, EUR 62 million is increased to cover overtime, while the total budget is reallocated from non-productive expenditure to the areas where imperative needs exist. The social, humanitarian sign of the budget under discussion is, among other things, the statutory difference between our left-wing government and the previous governments of cruel and brutal austerity. And while the government is literally struggling to complete the first assessment and carry out the reforms needed for the country, we are monitoring the opposition to go into inexorable criticism, aiming solely at micro-party benefits. And of course, I do not even dare to touch on the issue of what would be the picture of the 2016 budget that we are discussing today, whether we should have met the primary surpluses of 4.5% that Samara and Venizelos had already agreed with the partners, compared with the mere 0.5% primary surplus that we finally managed to ensure. We do not, of course, claim that this budget is an extremely generous, loose budget. It could not be, in addition, given the current conditions of budgetary stability and the many times suffocating and unjustified demands of the institutions. It is, however, a budget with a clear social character, fiscally balanced, balanced, based on conservative and realistic - and hence safer - estimates of revenue progress and a clear plan to support low income groups, those who have been most affected and disproportionately by the winter economic crisis. It is firmly based on conservative estimates of the expected revenues from tax evasion and corruption lists, on the collection of VAT, on the use of public property, on the fight against the smuggling of triangular transactions, cartels, black money, offshore companies, from the application of the Asylum, from the broad introduction of electronic transactions. This budget is not based on overestimates as regards the expected positive outcome of the first assessment and the successful completion of the bank recapitalisation. The realisation of the assessments, creates optimism for a gradual recovery of the economy, once the already under way structural reforms in the public sector have been completed to rationalise the functioning of public services and bodies, reform in education, the highest national insurance and address the major problem of red loans, which are the central priorities of the government. This left-wing government, in spite of all those who wish to fail to take up their destructive work again, will implement this realistic budget, because it provides the guarantees of its successful implementation, while at the same time achieving the government's objectives for the gradual and ultimately final exit of the country from the crisis and the commission that has been imposed on it, with sole responsibility not of course of the only nine months government of SYRIZA but of the previous governments of centre-right, neoliberal and ideology, which have ruled in prudence and imprudence over the last forty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u561	We continue with Mrs Kefaliannis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u562	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2016 budget is taking place at a time when social tension is intensified, in a highly complex international situation that directly affects Greece, at a time when all the problems that were diligently hiding in the past months are beginning and coming to the surface. The illusions of the elections have now vanquished. The government's crumbling from one failure to the other. The country's position abroad is made day after day weaker, weaker. The Prime Minister is trying to handle extremely critical and serious political issues in terms of communication and micro-party tactics. At the meeting of the Political Heads of State or Government, the Council has taken a pretext. After the Council, with great ambiguity, it spoke of a lack of responsibility and seriousness from the other political forces. He thus wanted to launch a new fierce round of attacks on the opposition, of course forgetting the marginal situation that he and his government brought with the disastrous negotiations, forgetting the lies that erected them for the implementation of the Greek people's vote, forgetting the closed banks, the outflow of deposits, the capital controls, the danger of Grexit. The way they fought led the country to the third and most painful memorial, whose results bring society to its limits. It is at the very least hypocritical now to invoke the value of consensus and consensus. Just a year before you dropped the government, leading the country to the unknown. Now you're asking for a consensus. Prime Minister and gentlemen of the conflict, to remind you that when Greece was, with your responsibility, on the edge of the cliff, we supported the country by promoting the national benefit. We put, as we were supposed to, in front of Greece. So your populism also has limits. Unfortunately, you've been over it a long time ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating clearly demonstrates the unreliability of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. He's undeveloping, ineffective and socially unjust. It consecrates the Greek economy and does not allow the release of investment powers. It chokes every element of healthy entrepreneurship. Have you really wondered which foreign businessman will come to invest in Greece today, with a government that detests entrepreneurship and adores the great client state? In this sense, this year's budget breaks down the new generation and productive forces of the country, breaks the middle class of the country, erases any prospect of growth. The Greek economy, already in the third quarter, has returned to the recession and the forecast for 2016 is clearly worse. The government forgets that in 2014 it received a dynamic growth economy. You are the only ones who are responsible for returning to the recession. The public economy returned to a primary deficit in 2015, despite additional and extremely painful austerity measures for this year alone. The amount of these measures for the period 2015-2016 is initially estimated at EUR 5,7 billion. You introduce a harder tax policy, you go on increasing VAT rates, corporate income tax rates, increased solidarity levy, increased insurance premiums, rent tax, advance income tax on legal persons, income tax on farmers and farmers. I honestly wonder how you believe that the middle Greek family will be able to respond to these scary increases? At the same time, you dramatically cut social costs and proceed to a reduction in the main and supplementary pensions, the one-off, the beneficiaries of CSR, the heating allowance. The public debt is growing again and as a percentage of GDP is becoming about 188% in 2016, an increase of 9 percentage points of GDP over two years. Current public debts to the private sector are increasing. You did not even manage to make EUR 200 million available in 2015 to tackle the humanitarian crisis. You appear to celebrate, arguing that 25 billion euros will not be needed to recapitalise the banks, but only EUR 5.7 billion will not be said to have dismantled the banking system, causing destruction to small shareholders and the Greek state. A year ago, the Greek banks made 34 billion euros, of which some 17-18 million euros would come back to the Greek state, through their privatisations. Now they are doing 780m euros, passing through the famous distress funds. The participation of the Greek taxpayer was eliminated, the small shareholders were destroyed and the government celebrates. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the concise picture of the Greek economy today. This is the image of a country that day after day is plunged into recession and economic tolerance. Within less than a year you have managed to unpredictablely harm the country. In 2015 we lived a densely difficult time. A year of universal retreat in all fields, not only in the economy but also in foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget does not in any way express what all of you are trying to show, the so-called left footprint of the government in the budget for social justice. The footprint of this budget is social injustice and political inefficiency. Your budget is the result of the inconsistent, unresponsible, irresponsible, micropolitical you have exercised. It has no social mark, it is against society, against young people, the pensioners, the entrepreneurs, the middle-class, the farmers, the Greek family. It turns aggressively and with an attitude of control what it tries to develop and stand out in this country. For these reasons, we are voting against this budget of the recession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u563	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Emmanuelides from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u564	Thank you, Mr President. And yet, in the famines, earthquakes, strains, we survive. And not only do we survive, but we also create all those elements of a long-term policy. I have explained in previous positions, this unprecedentedness for the parties of society's opposition insight to support a SYRIZA "alternative". I've finally said make your self-criticism. It will help you, because hope always dies lately. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget under discussion is another budget integrated into the suffocating framework of the Memorandum cheques. Although he is in a time follow-up, he is in a diametrically opposite direction compared to the previous ones, but in his social reference. Its quality characteristics are socially sound and it is budgetaryly balanced. The indicative element of the positive social sign focuses on the fact that social cuts are not horizontal, as they usually become, but targeted. They do not automatically turn against wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no. Taxation, mostly, at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u566	Expenditure on local government agencies and benefits shall be stable. Questions, Mrs Bakoyannis - unfortunately for you - are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u567	Yeah. Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u568	You can ask other fields for your opposition rhetoric. However, not the ones deposited.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u569	I am pleased that you are proud of the social sensitivity of your budget!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u570	By continuing, then, we say that more than EUR 823 million are being paid for additional social costs. An uninsured card is provided and free access is provided to hospitals. They receive 62 million for the coverage of uninsured over-ages, ensuring free movement of the public transport for the unemployed, extending the minimum guaranteed income. All of these are some of the measures we are financing in order to tackle the humanitarian crisis. Needless to recall that the previous governments had not drawn up any policy on vulnerable and more affected social groups. The budget, as has been said, guarantees budgetary balance. Indicatively, withholding debt is a prevalence of debt. With the summer agreement, the loan rate was reduced to 1%, the average maturity of the loan is thirty-three years and it is expected that discussions on the write-down of the unbearable, in general, of all parties, will be initiated. In the crucial issue of bank recapitalisation, of the 25 billion anticipated to deal with it, it will only take 5.7 billion, which means significant debt retention and a reduction in interest costs. First of all, the budget is realistic. We want to stop the tradition of the inappropriate budgets that are submitted only to be revised at the first opportunity and, of course, to the worst. We are tabling a budget which is the starting point for a path leading to social cohesion and productive reconstruction. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, came to the government, taking on the historical responsibility of getting the country and its people out of the staircase. We are aware of the difficult work we have done. But we are determined to succeed. We'll make it because we're different. For decades now we have witnessed a disastrous policy place, expressed by the PASOK and New Democracy parties. With the sole aim of their political survival, their entire life and their state resulted in economic, social, political and moral bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, by serving for over three decades the area of education, I will focus on the issues of education in the context of the budget being discussed. "City that does not have the basis of education is built upon the sand," Adamantios Korais will point out. On the sand, ladies and gentlemen, the state of PASOK and the New Democracy throughout the post-government period was building its bare structure in the way it was dealt with. In this way, he did not care to support the existence of education at all. With political backdrop, the guilty political parties - which have defined our collective luck - have not taken care to create an educational system calling for the people's essential education. There is a need for a common foreign and security policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common defence policy, a common Catalytic, in this regard, is the teacher's role in ensuring these values. What good fortune have the PASOK and New Democracy Governments reserved for the teacher? They committed themselves to a good capture of undermining and finally managed to devaluate their acceptable social role. Workingly devastated, socially enthusiastic, he was threw north into the arena of social automation. SYRIZA, from the first moment he wanted to restore the authority of the teacher to regain his social role. The legislation we have brought throughout the previous term is precisely in this direction. Today we are inaugurating a national social dialogue, not with the pretexts that all the previous 'national dialogues' have had, which was nothing but a marked educational and social deck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u571	Mr. Barbarousis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u572	Thank you. By taking a first look at her budget "second time left, the first thing that she's been through my mind is something our Chief said, that Mao, Lenin and Marx will be very proud of you. Apparently, instead of hope, the blade comes and will leave nothing standing, it will cut everything down, wages, pensions, allowances, everything. But God should have his hand not literally come because with all those who have come to our home country, especially after the very correct intervention by the Russians in Syria, which the Golden Dawn has welcomed since the first moment, it is unlikely that we will see something similar here as it was in France.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u573	You know about blades!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u574	Finally, gentlemen of the Left and of progress, and you from Paro are from Paros and I don't mean the island.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u575	Don't move our finger now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u576	Please, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u577	Are you gonna tell us how we're gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u578	Don't interrupt, Mr. Papadopoulos. Carry on, Mr. Barbaroussi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u579	Mr. Tsipras, you also draw the road that Samaras and Venizelos drew, but you know that you will have the same fate as the previous "leaves". And since I say 'leaves', I see you in a short hug with President Leventis. Do you know what you've achieved with policies and the previous ones? Seeing a mailman and changing the way. The citizens used to expect the postman to bring a letter from a relative, some greeting cards - since they come and also holidays - and now all he brings are bills for the payment of all these new taxes that you have put in, which you put and which you will put, which are to be added to all these taxes that New Democracy and the PASOK have put in. Most importantly, whatever measures you take, whatever taxes you put, the numbers you have put into the budget are just paper exercises. In an economy that is located for six years in recession and changes tax law every other weekend, all the calculations and figures you write are just wishes and nothing more. Measures and most taxes require that there should also be a serious state which operates in such a way as to prevent all adverse consequences. But you are already famous for creative ambiguity, all you do is build a party state slowly. On the one hand, you dismantle the social state, the welfare state, all the structures that could relieve the tested people and, on the other hand, because of your inability to do so, corruption, tax evasion and any kind of misrepresentation. Unfortunately, it's mathematically certain that the numbers won't come out and that's gonna look very fast. You will see it from the beginning of the new year and we will be here again a few months later to discuss measures, equivalent taxes and charges that the outsiders will require and you will carry out their orders. You have continued the same catastrophic policy that you have been accusing yourself of all this time. It is clear, however, that the country needs a completely different policy in the opposite direction to what your partners have set you. However, even if you get the numbers you call for, society 'does not come'. Besides, what's the point if the numbers have come out but suicides doubled and if all the youth has emigrated to all the lengths and backs of the Earth? In conclusion, I would not be able to comment on those who have their honour from the 'first and second time on the left' and they are not other Greek farmers who are literally impoverished. A sector of the economy that is truly productive and offers jobs, revenues, currency and reinforces the Greek economy in every respect, has been placed to destroy it completely, just to collect a few million more to give it to the loan sharks. But know that for every farmer who will give up his profession, the blow will not only concern him and his family, but the whole region and all of Greece. We, as Golden Dawn, attach great importance to the primary production sector. On Sunday we founded the first union of Greek farmers and then follow. What gave me a special impression at this event was a meeting we had with a gentleman quite old. Of what he told me, I had one thing left, that Greece - says - a life but now, Pelion Wousides rule it. I disagree with that. I don't believe that any of you in here can compare to Pelion Woussi, because Pelion Woussey, before betraying Suli but then, he was a great warrior, and on the contrary, you warriors never existed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u580	Mr. Nzimanis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u581	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the budget under discussion is the first budget for the Left Government and marks our budgetary strategy. It is a budget that defines a new path for the country, the economy and society. After five years of harsh memorial austerity and horizontal cuts in wages, pensions and allowances in medium and low incomes, we have a duty to relaunch development in the country and give the mark of change for the economy and society for the next four years. The 2016 budget aims to maintain the budgetary balance by creating primary surpluses of 0.5% for 2016, 1.75% for 2017 and 3.5% for 2018 and 2019, when the economy will now have recovered. On the basis of the previous programme, this was 4.5%, and in order to achieve it, additional budgetary measures amounting to 7.5 billion euros were needed. The second objective of the budget is to end the reproduction of the current momentum of the Greek economy created by the effort to achieve unrealistic budgetary objectives and by the vicious cycle of the pre-cyclical fiscal policy implemented by the two previous governments in a global economy. Third of the budget is social justice and the stirring up of unemployment and poverty which, due to the policies of the previous governments, has taken a humanitarian crisis dimension. To this end, there is an 823 million increase in social expenditure, 300 million of which will be allocated to health. It is a realistic budget, based on conservative and mild estimates, without taking into account important factors such as the recapitalisation of the banks that will soon be completed, the assessment of the new programme followed and finally the debt regulation debate. The 2016 budget serves the undeniable need for reversal of the difficult climate, to stimulate revenues through a fairer tax system where every citizen will pay only what is commensurate with it. This makes it fairer to reallocate the tax burden by increasing the solidarity levy on real high incomes so that they do not pay themselves, the weakest. The 2016 Public Investment Programme will reach EUR 6.75 billion, by 5.2% increased compared to the previous year. This expenditure corresponds to 3.9 of the country's estimated GDP and is allocated to 6 billion euros for projects financed by European Union resources and 750 million from national resources. The Public Investment Programme, which will be financed exclusively from national resources, aims at programmes supporting employment and education, infrastructure, social programmes and vulnerable groups. The NRP of the new period 2014-2020 should start as early as possible, given that forward absorption of funds is foreseen to enhance employment, entrepreneurship and innovation in key sectors of primary production. The main objective of this budget is to find the golden incision between social justice and adjusting financial indicators. There was no such provision in any of the previous budgets. With regard to the Ministry of National Defence, taking into account the urgent budgetary constraints within a environment of intense economic hardship and recession, modern geopolitical and military developments and cheques and with a sense of responsibility both to the Greek taxpayer and to the executives who serve our country, the 2016 budget ensures the smooth operation of the Armed Forces and ensures even marginally their most important operational needs and ruthless demands. And this is achieved by the completion of the unification of the new power structure, the grouping of supplies of replacement warships, in order to ensure the possibility of fully targeted supplies and the achievement of economies of scale and the full exploitation of military factories, specialised military and civilian personnel in the areas of vehicle maintenance, flying media, weapons systems, clothing, manufacture of medicines, health material, etc. For all the above I mentioned, I will vote for the 2016 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u582	Thank you. Mr Bassiakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u583	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pretext that the state budget reflects, records and forms the frameworks within which economic policy is conducted, and of course the government's social policy. The preparation and criticism of the state budget must cover in turn the following criteria: firstly, how realistic the sizes, indicators, choices and targets, secondly, whether they meet the current needs of the country and society and, thirdly, whether they fulfil the timeless government announcements. I fear, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that all of these three areas are not satisfactory to the economy and the country at all. On the contrary, they are destructive and, in any case, budget data do not lead to the recovery of the economy and leave no hope to the Greek citizen. Because the Greek economy has already been returning since the third quarter of 2015 to the recession with a worse outlook for 2016 than this year. The significant reduction in GDP. The economic climate has deteriorated. The public economy has now returned to a primary deficit. The internal posting of payments continues, with the government’s due obligations to private individuals increasing by 58% over the corresponding period of last year, without a schedule for repayment, when the public debts had fallen by 60% in the period 2012-2014. The additional government measures will reach EUR 5.7 billion over the next two years and will involve VAT increases, income tax on legal persons, a special contribution of solidarity, insurance premiums, rent income, abolition of a one-off tax on income tax, the abolition of HPAI exemptions, a large advance payment of income tax and, of course, catastrophic measures for farmers. At the same time, the social budget is sinking to deficits, tax revenues are in the lower part of the decade, the privatizations have swept away, the banks have needed a new recapitalisation in an unacceptable manner, the deposits have been reduced and the public debt is unfortunately swelling. Whilst red loans have been disbursed, without responsibility most of the time, by the borrowers, and the income of the insurance funds is considerably lessened because of the predicament of unemployment. Moreover, a reduction in even lower pensions is expected without the pensioner being able to plan his or her life. The increase in the poverty of many social groups brings despair to a large number of our fellow citizens, who are unable to meet even their basic obligations. The underfunding and lack of liquidity in many productive sectors, the delay or the loss of social and other resources in Community programmes (development), the disinvestment and the consequence of very high unemployment, as well as the closure of businesses are recorded as characteristic in many productive sectors which thus eliminate any optimistic prospects for the immediate future, leading our worthy young abroad. While we should inspire confidence, attract investment and stimulate the extroversion of businesses as the only tools and axes for reversing the climate, so that we enter a development path by limiting state waste, rational management of available state resources and expenditure, as well as by reducing overtaxation. In fact, when tax rates in neighbouring countries are reduced by strengthening the competitiveness of their economies. So what development plan might be behind farmers' overtaxation? The account for our farmers is indeed very heavy and leads, Mr Ministers, to their extinction, while the competitiveness of our agricultural sector is undermined, when production costs in neighbouring countries similar to our own products are much lower and thus their products become more competitive with our own. To us, the tax rate for farmers will rise from 13% to 23% for 2016 and 26% for the incomes of 2017. There are also plans - for farmers - to increase contributions, production costs, taxation, tax advances, even 100%, to increase the price of agricultural streams, VAT, agricultural supplies from 13% to 23%, VAT on packaged agricultural products, food, etc. 23%, gradually abolishing excise duty on agricultural oil in full, the announced abolition of the exemption from the subsidy tax to 12 000 euros. How can the agricultural sector that is already facing a major crisis bear all this? And take note of all the above, following on from the problems that have so far been recorded, in relation to the delays in payment of aid and compensation, the reduction in the welfare pension of the OGA by 8%, the up to tripling of farmers' contributions to the OGA, the delays in the reimbursement of excise duty on agricultural oil, the difficulties in financing agricultural production and exports due to the lack of borrowing and capital controls. In conclusion, it appears that instead of measures and actions to reduce the cost of production and increase the value of added, the expected measures reduce the agricultural production base and apparently also reduce the taxable material at the expense of State revenues. Did anyone simply have to assess the disruption of the viability of the majority of our farms that are left deadlocked before the above measures are introduced? To conclude, all these disastrous policies and practices with their destructive effects on society as a whole are not linked and do not match a left-wing government, at least in line with the expectations that that government has cultivated, but without telling the truth but by promising the weak, deceiving the citizens that it will tear the memorials, when the economic process was beginning to improve by the end of last year. That is why we are voting against the state budget because it does not give any hope and prospects for the economy, society and the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u584	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, ten students and students and ten educational attendants from the 2nd EMPAL Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with Mrs Chrysula Katsavra - Siropoulou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u585	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the first budget of a left-wing government. This in itself is a fact that centers everyone's interest within, I would say out of Greece as well. The budget was drawn up in a suffocating environment, identified by the following factors: the implementation of the 2015 budget, drawn up by the Government of New Democracy and PASOK under Mr Samaras, the new agreement with lenders, namely the third memorandum, the prospect of declining the public debt, the recession of the economy, the unacceptable rates of unemployment, overtaxation, the inability of expenditure in critical areas, the humanitarian crisis and the marginal situation in which society, unstable up to an explosive international, geopolitical environment, the top of which is the refugee crisis. So under the burden of these unfavourable circumstances, the guarantee of budgetary equilibrium and, at the same time, the search for social justice reminds us of an unresolved equation, that is, a quadruple of the cycle. However, one must bear in mind that the 2015 recession will be zero in relation to the preliminary draft budget for -2.3%. The recession for 2016 will be 0.7% compared with the forecast for -1.6%. The primary surplus for 2016 will be 0.5% or about 1 billion euros, as opposed to 4.5% or about 8 billion people agreed to. Samaras, Venizelos and Hardouvelis. And that, of course, is the result of the tough negotiation with lenders. And one more thing that is deliberately revealed by the Opposition. The social budget for 2016, i.e. health, education and employment expenditure, is increased by 823 million euros. It is therefore clear that the financial staff have made a great effort to ensure some room for left-wing policy in crisis situations with the slight increase in the Public Investment Programme, the increase in the social budget and the reallocation of budget expenditure. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Of course the budget is not on its own left. But there's no doubt left footprint. This remains to be confirmed in the forthcoming tax reform with a reallocation of burdens, in insurance with the protection of labourparts, in the bill on universal access to public health and education reform and in the final arrangements for the protection of first residence. We must not forget, however, that the imminent negotiation of the debt and its substantial impairment is the decisive, capable and necessary condition for exiting the current stagnation. The capital for growth, employment and income growth. Ladies and gentlemen, the criticism we have received from New Democracy and PASOK, namely the main responsible for the unprecedented crisis in the country for over seven years, says that the policy implemented by SYRIZA is not different from their own policy, except those who are better managers. Mr. Stavros beat us yesterday with his questions: "Is that left? Is that left? Is it the other left?’ And Mr Venizelos, sad not to be invited to the meeting of the Political Heads, does not miss the opportunity to convoke SYRIZA and the Prime Minister and to repeat the goodness of the PSI and the abstract policies implemented by PASOK either on his own or in cooperation with the New Democracy. The truth is, however, that the crisis created the PASOK and the New Democracy over time. With their pre-crisis policies they created debts for a distorted growth model, based on the favor of the best-beings, the 'daimeters', the bankers, the oil and the large food groups. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Model based on the redistribution of wealth against many. With their policies during the crisis they also created new debts, which together with the old ones were transferred from banks to the Member States of the European Union. This is how they burned the country's negotiating papers and at the same time assigned our national sovereignty. Marble pays for it again with unbelievable unemployment, wild taxation, the reduction of wages and pensions, great poverty, the shrinking of the social state. But also the best, best man. First in line for public-private fillets. It's like the OPAP. Their symphony sheet is the country's European orientation. However, Europe wants not for the benefit of the people but for the service of certain great interests and for them to be covered under the umbrella of the European People's or Socialist Party. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Give me some time, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a new Ludwig Vitgenstein would certainly be needed, namely someone who would help restore the meaning of words. Is there really a serious, conservative, popular right-wing, liberal, neoliberal in this country? Is there a serious social democrat, a socialist who doesn't go so far to the right and we don't know him? The problem is not what one says. The problem is what he's doing and who he's with. And here lies the cause of the strategic deadlock of both the New Democracy and PASOK, as well as those who tried to substitute them under the cloak of the new and incorruptible. Unfortunately for them the only strategy they have is their need for power. But that is not the need for Greek society. He showed it to them, and he'll see them again after four years. But the country needs politicians and parties who mean and do what they say. I sincerely hope that the New Democracy will complete its procedures and become a responsible interlocutor. With regard to a criticism that comes left from SYRIZA, I admit it is of great interest. However, the conspiracy is not necessarily defeated. Respect for power correlations is not just realism. It's also a demonstration of responsibility and decision to reconstruct forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u586	Please, shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u587	But such a dialogue requires time that, unfortunately, we do not have time at the moment, which is why I am content with this. According to Dionysius Solomon "national is what is true". I dare also say by paraphrasing the 'left is what is human, social and true'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u588	Thank you. Please, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u589	I would say to my colleague that we should all stand aside for the left budget to go through. Let me tell her that on the road that PASOK took on the road of the national strategy, the antimony in the first place came to New Democracy, and then backly you. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall use Mr Tsakalotou's words in the budget debate last year. He invoked Antonio Gramsi by saying that "the judgement exists where the old one dies and the new one cannot be born". So we wonder if the government's gentlemen think it's the new one. A year ago you put several questions. Today a voice of oxen in the wilderness. The "funny" have come to an end. Let's go to the budget. It's a budget without principle, no middle, no end. You said a lot. Result none. The country has returned to the recession. So it's your accomplishment. When other countries were able to come out of the crisis that scourged their economies, we started over again. In the eurozone, GDP accelerated from 0.9% to 1.5%. All euro area economies have experienced a positive and growing rate of change in GDP. In Greece we returned to the recession, as I said before. This is foreseen for 2016. Let me remind you here that in 2014, the country had achieved a small but primary surplus. He had achieved a primary surplus that the government at the time had been mocked for. But it impresses your Minister's courage to state that it is a tragic mistake for the previous governments not to fully apply the memorandum. He's the same person who had pre-electioned the memos. He's the same person who would never vote for a memorandum. It is the same person who currently applies the third, the hardest Memorandum. So you misguided gentlemen of the government and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, the world with your indifferent promise and, of course, your post-election. You were talking about traitors, German germans, about national brokers. And I'm asking. Is the recapitalisation of the banks you're doing not a national recapitalisation? Four systemic credit institutions with a weighted active ten billion at degrading value less than seventy million euros were valued on a stock exchange. In April 2014, after their recapitalisation, do you know how much their value was? Thirty-three billion. The government held the eighteen and a half billion. You say that the Financial Stability Fund owns public shares in the four banks as well as the veto right. But you forget to mention and that the share value of the financial stability fund portfolio was twenty and a half billion in December 2013, six and a half billion in March 2015 and under two billion in October 2015. So, we're talking about stress. Do you know who is responsible for this development? You and the representatives of the creditors are solely responsible for you, who have today become strong natural followers. So you patriots opened the way to foreign funds and sold out the domestic banking system. This will be the registration of the government of the "first time left" in modern Greek history. Mr Tsakalotos said in last year's budget debate: "We have in the delegation a Siomple, an Olad and an Obama, people who do not accept and cannot fight on the far right, even when necessary." Today, Prime Minister, please ask Symble for Olad's help and you are looking forward to Obama's support. Fasten, gentlemen of the government, and you contradict. And don't forget that the Independent Greeks are your government partner. You say that the budget will give you time to run your plan. So what's your plan? When will the Government present the development programme for 2016? When will he talk about the country's productive reconstruction? When will this development finally come that you're talking about? The only saving is the Juncker package and the new ESRB, which was the result of the previous government. And there, if you manage to do the right targeting. Our economy has already returned to a primary deficit and the account is rising. Society pays very dearly the rule of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. You promised hope and became horror and error, especially for the new generation. You said you'd bring relief and take hard measures. You've increased the VAT. You've reduced wages and pensions. You abolished the reimbursement of excise duty on agricultural oil. You taxed farmers with 20% in 2015 and 26% in 2016. You've increased the income tax advance. You have brought the national dialogue on education and you have torpedoed - Mr. Friends is missing to hear it - from the outset with unprecedented parliamentary procedures. One act of legislation and one amendment agrees with the other. The conclusions of course are yours. The disaster is uncontrolled. The reduction in social security expenditure exceeds four hundred million. You are talking about fighting unemployment. And here's the oxymobile. There are still five hundred and four million euros left to operate ten ready-made programmes of the OAED, as well as thirty-three million from the European Development Fund to deal with poverty, and they remain in the fund unaffected. Is it because it was an attempt from the previous government, as Mr Kegeroglu said? The social budget is suffering from huge deficits. The 2015 deficit is increased and will reach 2.1 billion in 2016. There is no social policy for the 'first time left' government. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Mr Koutsoukos, has said so in the 2016 budget, reflecting the derailment in which the Greek economy has been found following an inappropriate third memorandum and your irresponsible policy. The real cost to society is 6.9 billion. This is the result you have brought, gentlemen of the government. You failed. You have had the opportunity to negotiate within a better budget environment with surpluses and positive growth, but you have not even negotiated. Do you know what your offer has been over the last few years in the country? You prevented any reform as an opposition to 'not all'. You divided the Greek people into memorial and antimonetary and gave hope and promises with the Thessaloniki programme. You guarded the Greeks' vote with demagogy and lies. As a result, you came to the government. Then what did you do? You're off because the lie has short feet. You started setting up SYRIZA's party state. You brought the country face to face with Grexit. You imposed the capital controls and closed the banks. And a few days ago, you opened the way to auctioning in the first place without any trace of social pain. Today, this budget does not reflect any success at all. This budget is the assumption of your defeat. Of course we cannot vote for this budget, which is why we are voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u590	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u591	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating today is the first one we are tabling and it is a budget cut, because it is then a line of truth that we have established in the political life of the country. We are setting up a tool for the printing of public finances where we can resort to the corresponding social controls. We put the archive base for the public finance control. With this budget we are trying to do two important things: firstly, to have budgetary discipline and, secondly, to have social justice. It is of great importance to us that social justice is carried out with very limited financial resources. However, it is in a progressive direction with a strong social figure and a bias in favour of the weak. To this end, the increase in social costs and welfare by eight hundred twenty - three million euros, that is about three hundred million for welfare, sixty - two million for uninsured over-ages, eighty - eighty - million for tax returns and others. We are liberating resources for real needs and opening up, if any, little space for development. Because even a little more public investment is increasing, i.e. by EUR 50 million, because unfortunately the tools for fair burden-sharing are minimal. We know that real wealth is still escaping. We, you know, didn't budget him. We did not have a budget of EUR 1 and it is obvious that it has already been collected. Be sure that it will continue to be collected. In this budget, it is only realistic that we can do soon, quickly. We did not have a budget for possible receipts of tax foregone. We have launched a revision of code-code expenditure, with a view to rationalising and saving resources. We are inaugurating a major insurance reform for an insurance long-term sustainable - because it is zero - and social law. We have brought you a real budget and not a misleading one. We're actually betting in terms of responsibility. It is highly successful because social provision is increasing at a time when the pie is small. Faithful in the line of exit from the crisis in a democratic way, we adopt the policy of winning points rather than spectacular reclassifications, because, anyway, we cannot have them. We drive the country back to normality, taking advantage of all those small but important potential for growth. In spite of the efforts of the Opposition to give the budget negative features, the 2016 budget is no longer realistic but has an extremely positive social figure serving targets that are important for the Left, such as social justice and the implementation of redistributive measures for the benefit of vulnerable groups in society. This can now be achieved thanks to the success of the agreement on the compression of the objectives for primary surpluses and the need to implement milder structural measures, thus leaving more room for social policy in contrast to the previous governments. In addition to the budget, the government's desire to deal effectively with tax fraud, tax evasion, tax evasion and smuggling, which are major problems, is reflected in the country's constant problems. We will achieve this through privatisation, controls and other actions that we are already completing. It should also be stressed that the debt withholding that has been achieved, as the loan rate has decreased, has increased the average maturity of the loans, and that there will be an extremely fewer need for money than the ones envisaged for the recapitalisation of the banks. In the communication from the ESM on the financing of the programme, it is explicitly stated that the debt relief will follow in the form of a longer grace period and a debt repayment period. Although the efforts and achievements of recent months have not indeed been enough to convince us that we will have a direct end to the enormous problems caused by previous policies, such as over-debt debt, long-term recession, unemployment, severe social inequalities, the foundations and the will of the present government to deal with them has been established. I would also like to talk a little more specifically about structural reforms, the environment, energy and climate change. Unfortunately, I can't. I'm getting past it to close down. The law on the necessary reforms, dear colleagues and colleagues, has begun. Our biggest parallel programme, in fact, cannot be captured in this budget, because it cannot be captured in figures and because our biggest parallel programme is the radical reform in the state and in the public administration, which has begun to be corrupted by its forces yesterday, the anti-reform forces cannot and do not mean to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u592	Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u593	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is customary for the budget debate to be the most serious political debate this year. It is customary when one talks about the budget, planning and planning the country's policies and, of course, planning the country's finances for the time it comes. I must say that I have listened very carefully to most of the SYRIZA colleagues who have spoken before me today. And I was wondering, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly is it? Is this the end of the hallucinations? Are you heroic? You are even trying to tell the Greek people that there is ultimately the left mark, that there is the left program, that the budget has a social person, has a left identity and so on.Huh? Ladies and gentlemen, let's not be fooled in here. If you have until first had the alibi of ignorance, you no longer have it. You know very well what you're voting on. You know very well that this is a budget, which is very tough, no sign of a social amount. You know you're cutting pensions. You know you're cutting benefits. You know it's a budget that kept HISPIA, for which you gave the famous battle, which you would have abolished and taken back 30%. You know that at the moment, the 2016 budget is the heaviest and most difficult for Greek citizens in the last five years, because it is coming prosthetics to what people have already paid for in previous years. That's the reality. You're taxing everything that's moving. Tax everything he breathes. You're taxing farmers. You are taxing everyone and you are coming here today and with a lot of courage I have heard fellow Members be proud of the famous budget of the 'first time left'. So tell the truth, ladies and gentlemen. It's time to get serious. It's time to understand that it doesn't take you anymore and it's good to understand it and inspire it that it doesn't take you. So I want to come to specific issues. I'm not going to tell you where you made the banking system, we have a question. You cannot be proud, however, that today the Greek banking system is in the hands of hedge funds and that thanks to the first time left recapitalisation today the banking system costs 500 million. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen! You had the courage to come and give us a committee of inquiry on the second recapitalisation. So take down your numbers now and come and tell us when you did us a committee of inquiry what you have to say about your famous recapitalisation. Where did the banking system arrive? I have followed the speech of the various ministers without a draft, and I can only make three comments. Firstly, are you proud, ladies and gentlemen, that your Minister for Rural Development has proposed an amendment, at the same time saying that it will not be the case? Do you like that? If that's not two-faced, what on earth is it? If this is not unbelievable populism, where are we today in this country, in what language are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u594	Whose fine will it cover?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u595	Yesterday he also came to the public - I had tabled a question earlier - this whole incredible story of 'TRAINOSE'. We have all the trains on the border full of products, the companies have kneeled, eight hundred refugees are on the train lines and there is no Greek state carrying them down, opening the lines, so that the market can move. What's the cost? I'm waiting for the Minister to tell me. What's the cost of the inertia and the jam that you have? Who will pay for it, ladies and gentlemen? I too can understand, because I can no longer understand how it is possible to monitor the Greek economy, possibly, because these people are private. It's not the state. They are private individuals who have invested in this country, have believed the Greek economy. They invested in Piraeus to be able to transport their products. Of course, the Greek Government is watching and doing absolutely nothing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, with your permission, I would like some more time. Minister, on 4 November I asked a question about Schengen. It's not your business, it's your rest of the government. I didn't get a reply because I guess the Ministry of Foreign Affairs didn't realize there was a matter. Nowadays, we're all at risk. And because you know a Grexit brings the other Grexit with great ease and because you know a possible exit from Schengen has a huge political cost, I call on you today to go out and say that you will implement all the commitments that your Prime Minister has made, get out clearly and say that, yes, Frontex will come, yes, we will implement our commitments and do so by the 16th of the month. You have no room. They're waiting for us around the corner. The credibility of Greece has reached zero. We don't have allies. We no longer have friends in the wider eurozone, and you about others are treading. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen - and I want to say this simply by closing down - whether you are aware of the scale of the problem that we are facing. I wonder, in other words, whether a man, who is the Prime Minister of a country, who has come to deal with these problems and who speaks of consensus, if he himself calls for consent from the opposition, can use an Arab proverb on dogs screaming and on caravans walking in the desert. It is a pity, ladies and gentlemen. It's a shame, because you're taking the country to your neck. And it is a pity, because with the perseverance and arrogance you are displaying, you will find no one to stand up for you in this House, as was the case with the previous one that took up the burden of responsibility to keep Greece in the euro. Change course and change course not for you - because it has a little bit of interest what will happen with SYRIZA and if it will disappear from the forefront - but the country doesn't pick up any more experiments or other mistakes. Of course we are voting against your budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u596	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u597	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u598	Now you want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u599	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u600	Excuse me, Mrs Manolakos, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Paulakis, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u601	Mrs. Bakoyannis is leaving, but that's why I'm taking the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u602	If you're going to answer me, Minister, I will remain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u603	Of course I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u604	Did you tell us and leave, Mrs. Bakoyannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u605	I heard you all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u606	How many minutes do you want to speak, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u607	Very little, two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u608	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u609	I will give a brief answer to the dramated tone used by Mrs Bakoyannis. First, what you said was the hardest budget, Mrs Bakoyannis, do you know what reminds me? That we have a donkey, for five years we've loaded him to carry ten bags of food, has kneeled the donkey. We came in, we're trying to pull the country out of the well, we've put a bag on him, because we couldn't do it otherwise, and the donkey ran out of the bag and not the ten bags the previous ones had. That means this thing about the tax issue you said. You have moved on to 20% and 25% income cuts, you have added I do not know how many dozens of billions of taxes in previous years. You have reduced by EUR 30-40 billion the country's GDP, and now it's because of SYRIZA who took a country from the well and is trying to get it out of it. Secondly, we are clearly very proud of the recapitalisation, which is happening at the moment. Of course! Don't look at me with bleedy eyes. Clearly we are that instead of 25 billion people you predicted will need, they only need 6 billion. Clearly, and we are pleased that they do not run the risk on the banks in the past few years and that have given loans to either political parties or media, without looking at the economic basis of these parties at all. I understand very strongly the poorness some of them have. Banks lose their Greek property because they lose the possibility of bank lending, as they could in previous years. Clearly we are proud of the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food brought by Mr. Apostlelos the other day, who makes the 20 million eligible acres in 30 million acres that you know very well - because that is where you come from and you are and you have lived - that in the White Mountains because of what the PASOK government has done and your government has not been eligible for all the mountainous tumor and we are now resolving it. Of course we're proud of a series of things. Clearly we are not happy because we are forced to keep some measures in order to make our economy and society balanced, but the road is different, Mrs Bakoyannis. As much as you try to play the script that we're the same, we're not and we'll never be the same as you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u610	Thank you, too. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u611	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u612	Mrs Bakoyannis, I will give you the floor for a minute, but we will not have an interactive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u613	I would ask the floor, Mr President, because my dear colleague has spoken five times. Minister, I understand and understand you and I don't expect you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u614	It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u615	"Mrs. Bakoyannis" wasn't that long?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u616	I was politically responding, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u617	Because you said 'Mrs Bakoyannis', I think I will answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u618	I gave the floor to Mrs Bakoyannis on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u619	I politically answered. Does he have any personal edges on what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u620	The Minister addressed me and I would like to say that I am pleased that he is proud of the budget. It's not me. And of course, Minister, we are not the same and I can assure you that I have no desire to be like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u621	Me neither.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u622	I would like to ask you not to make personal references - I mean the name - because automatically the one who listens to his name is asking for the floor on personal grounds. We can say what we want, but without personal mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u623	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u624	Mr. Loverdos, I have already announced Mrs. Manolakou. Immediately after you have the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u625	Gentlemen of the conflict, in 2015 you implemented the budget of the previous government that you had voted against and had the excuse that it was not your child, you received it. But now you're planning through the budget for next year. Will it have a direction in what you describe in the introduction, in your parallel programme that your special rapporteur has proudly shaken and says that he will open a different path, in view of the social needs of many and not of the few, a programme that opens the way to decapitation from austerity? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. On the contrary, much worse measures for the working class, the self-employed, the farm. Black days await them if they do not react, because you are also a civil party, such as the New Democracy to the Centro Union, your future ally, where their rapporteur praised us businessmen, as if they were the gods who exploit the work. Their existence is parasitic, because they are nourished by the work of others. So they're the ones you're protecting. Their profits, their interests, and you're chilling the people even more. Moreover, this is seen by health cuts, wages and pensions, insurance funds and others, as is the case with the new taxes of 4.2 billion. Of course, business groups are doubtful whether they will pay 8% to 10% according to your data. Who's gonna pay the extra tax charge? The working class and the popular strata, i.e. the majority of the people. Therefore, your budget is characterised by an escalation of the anti-population attack, leading the people more deeply to bankruptcy to regain capital. Therefore, Mr President, as far as PASOK is concerned, their budget has a start. Just check it out. It is characteristic that, in everything you brought to date, they had the aid stamp of the large groups. Even at this lunch afternoon the forest-health bill on grazing land, with amendments you extended the operation of quarries up to those that had been closed with a simple request, serving large construction groups and at the same time zeroing VAT on co-financed projects involving large construction groups. However, in pasta, rice and other basic species for the food of the people's family, VAT is 23%. Two meters, two stations you have, consistently favouring the pluralism you have supposedly fought. It is characteristic that shipowners, who in 2014-2014 crisis - had 11.7 billion dollars on new orders and 8.5 billion on second-hand ships, a total of over 20 billion when the new taxes you put for 2016 are 4.2 billion euros. You see, then, where does the unblemished riches gather? And you hide how many tax exemptions the shipowners have, which you continue and you reinforce. At the same time, the attack is escalating against the sea workers, the ship repair industry and the ports, which are first for sale and, above all, Piraeus. Employees are being driven into unemployment, all the problems encountered by crews, miners, port workers and the working class as a whole are being exacerbated. That's capitalism. This is the result of the governments of urban management, which is continuing with the left-wing government. But also in the agricultural sector, recent data from EUROSTAT have shown that 14% of farms in our country were destroyed in the 2003-2013, while there appears to be an increase in the trend of land concentration in less hands. It is the result of the European Union's and Greek governments' policy. This continues violently and quickly in the coming years - it seems in your budget - with reductions in government expenditure in OGA, agricultural oil, in ELGA, in early retirement farmers and, at the same time, with a tax storm for the farm, superfamiliar premiums for OGA, for ELGA, but also new fees for drilling, for spraying, and even for burial of their animals. Today it was voted to repay EUR 320 million from state subsidies granted in 2008 and 2009 as illegal. They calculate to take them automatically through the accounts of farmers with doses and even for 2016 they estimate to get the first dose, the 45 million. At the same time, farmers are called upon to pay loans for the 'bad' agricultural bank and extinction is not bleeding. Who's gonna survive? The great-great capitalist. That is the aim of the European Union, and that is what you do. Even the excise duty on their wine hurts small ones, because their big exporters have been relieved. And the NSRF for which you are cultivating hope will go where all four previous ones went and there's more money in the business groups. We are therefore voting against your budget, because they are like the previous ones of the New Democracy and the PASOK, they are bleeding the people to recover the capital. No delusion, no waiting, no tolerance to your barbarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u626	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u627	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u628	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u629	Mr President, about an hour and a half ago he was the President of this House. I said - on Wednesday's occasion, which gives us pleasures - that the Bureau and the government should consult so that we do not have any intervention of unresponsible ministers on matters which are not their responsibility and therefore do not have the color, the echo, the style and the arguments of the relevant ministers - not that they do not know the issues, every member of the government knows the issues - so that what is now being done can be avoided and that Parliamentary representatives should be asked for the floor and put into a debate which is rightly disturbed by Members who are waiting for the floor. That's not what happened. It's still Wednesday. Everything obeys the luxury of time. Since Friday this will be costing. I would ask you very much and I would ask the President of this House once again to put an end to this issue. I know that the ministers often want to talk about all the issues they know and to answer Members' arguments. However, Members are replying to the Members. Last time I spoke on this matter, indeed, a SYRIZA MEP replied to a colleague from anti-population. So there is no need for the ministers to remain unrestricted. To limit themselves, so we don't have any problems. In this respect, however, the Minister responsible for health answered the question he knows about the recapitalisation of the banks. However, he has spoken differently than the relevant Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, said. In particular, we were saying here - when we discussed the recapitalisation - that the summer sounded like an exaggeration that, as SYRIZA was doing, with 5 billion people buying the entire Greek Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u630	Now what are you doing, lecture?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u631	And if you'll excuse me, my colleague, and now with 5 billion euros, all banks have bought!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u632	Mr. Loverdo, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u633	The Minister says here in the report that with the cheap prices no Greek shares can buy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u634	Mr. Loverdo, on this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u635	This is the way in which the relevant Minister has given his speech. It is a very characteristic example - to listen to me - of another reason which justifies unjustifiedness and triggers our right to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u636	It will ask another Member of Parliament for the floor in the near future and we will leave the budget. Please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u637	That is why, because it is a matter to which Mr Chakalotos has devoted a lot of time to his speech, to consult, because what is now being done and displeased will be done all the time. We're warning you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u638	And what do we do? Don't threaten us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u639	Mr Loverdo, on your behalf, as you know this evening, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, which does not say that a Minister cannot answer if it is not on the subject. However, I shall put it to the Conference of Presidents tomorrow - and, of course, to the President of Parliament - so that a joint decision of the Conference of Presidents is taken on this matter. However, the Rules of Procedure are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u640	It is the Rules of Procedure, the Conference is the other. Because we have a right to talk too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u641	The issue will be raised in the Conference of Presidents. Mr. Nicolopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u642	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any such great interest, at least from the presence at the government headquarters, in order for the Achaios fellow Member to have this concern, since we have just heard about the battle of the Chania. Today we are discussing the first budget brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, and many colleagues have underlined it both by Co-population and Opposition. I would like to stress right from the outset that this is a budget that is far from my dreams, but I think the dreams of every Greek. Bad lies. It is still a Memorandum of Understanding, because the signs of measures imposed by lenders are strongly reflected in it. But, at the same time, hopes are included, which we all expect to see whether they will be verified or disproved. I personally am one of those who have fought and continue to strive to verify these hopes, of course not for Mr Tsipras to succeed, but for that is the interest of the people. So we are talking about a budget that cannot, as I said, represent a liberal social right-wing politician, which is true that he would like to see far fewer taxes and much more money available for social welfare and development. What brings us, however, the 2016 budget? It brings us new measures, which mean new taxes of 5.7 billion, at a time when taxpayers have lost their tax capacity. Nobody - nor I, of course - forget that we are after a painful compromise. I am also not forgetting that we are at a time when the economy of the country is trying to return to normality. The financial suffocation and the capital controls are still here. Just now the road has been opened to overcome, but I feel that this is still a long way away. However, it must go without it. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to read in the budget that the disbursements will be adjusted in accordance with its own capacity for cash, conditions at every time and the course of financing by the European Stability Mechanism. In other words, the state will pay whenever it can, of course, help to develop relations between citizens and the state. I also do not like to read at all that state expenditure is reduced by only EUR 260 million, while taxes are increased by EUR 2 billion and even worse that indirect taxes, which are unfair, are being paid very much. Is it true that in the primary production sector there will be growth by overtaxing farmers? I am sure you will be disappointed by listening to the account alone: 32 million, from the increase in tax rates, 40 million from the increase in tax advance payment, 13 million from the gradual abolition of the reduced excise duty on oil, 102 million from the increase in contributions to the OGA. A total of 187 million for 2016. It is no secret that, in the period since January last year, everything that happened has had a negative impact on the economy. Overdue debts were launched, entrepreneurship was kneeled, labour decreased. The damage that has been done must be healed quickly. I therefore hope that this new and difficult budget will be the beginning of a new course for the country, but I must stress the need to mark not only the budgetary balance but also the social balance. And that is why I cannot and do not want to support measures that wipe out society, measures which ultimately remove oxygen even from the government itself, which, like all the previous ones, have proved to be ineffective. Ladies and gentlemen, I still hope the government proves that it wants and can be beaten by bureaucracy and corruption. I wonder why, Mr Ministers, you have not given this list that is already in the press and you are letting a success tomorrow or tomorrow of a journalist reveal who the wife of a politician is and why the government is not doing so alone or is not the politician who is mainly affected and we must apologise with him. The government, as it has promised, must create a functioning state, must rid the country of the burdens of interlocutory and transmit messages of justice to everyone. In view of this, therefore, and of the thoughts I have already expressed in representing the Greek Christian Democrats, I cannot support this budget in those measures that run counter to our election announcements. Yes, I agree that we need together to read the necessary path, but by trying to improve conditions and relieve the Greeks of the enormous burdens that have already been burdened. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, will only be solved when the conditions are created which will enable young people to find work, and it will certainly get worse if we continue to receive the catastrophic illegal immigration flows, which, if not all of us drown, will certainly drown those who are still working by offering obedient, alternative, black and undeclared work, by pushing unemployment even more. These are for those who fall victim to their ideas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little tolerance. I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks and Greeks are waiting for the new development programme, as well as the parallel relief programme, for which both SYRIZA and ANEL have made an election commitment to the people. As I have already said, anyone who does not walk in the cloud understands the black points and unfortunately the abandonment of the red lines, such as the CSCE, where the savings of EUR 223,000 are recorded by the CSCE alone, as is the insurance funds that are reduced by EUR 550,000,000 compared to 2015 - were 470,000,000 - cut off by the insurance funds and another EUR 172,000 by public pensions, 640,000, 000, in total, while still looking for 1.2 billion. Who would know what this tragic equivalent would be that would come to cover this huge amount? Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already stated in public, I will be here to support this great and difficult effort, but I shall never hide the truth and disagree with what measures I believe conflict with the government's announcements. The country needs a national reconstruction plan, long-term breath, with development policies and alternatives to attract investment, with sectoral, reforms and changes, everywhere, which can ensure national understanding, social acceptance and mobilisation of all productive forces, which are sufficient and capable of breaking the vicious circle in which we have been in for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u643	Thank you very much, Mr Nicholas. Mrs Karakostas Evangelia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u644	I would also like to welcome all colleagues and colleagues who are in this Chamber. Indeed, we have sometimes defined a number of things that we want to say, but when we hear the Vice-Presidents, whatever their side, we have to put ourselves in this. So Dora Bakoyannis's heavy-duty style was probably intended to scare us, without having realised that the left-wings are not afraid - and this is a very important thing. Left time has given lives, he's been in prison, he's made exiles. What, then, must we fear from the word of Dora Bakoyannis, who wondered, "Are you heroic?" But he doesn't understand from what I said before that we're heroic? For what we do about our ideas, he doesn't understand? He asked us and said, "You have no conscience? " He's just wondering. And I have this to say, if a left man is conscious, how he will set up a budget, which he rightly said is a budget that gives the direction of things a government wants to serve. So what did we do? In the very difficult circumstances that we have and which are not due to us, but to the governance of the New Democracy and its partnership with PASOK over the past five years, what have we done? Be careful and it's important. We didn't put in the budget anything we hope to gather. We have not put funds, for example, on tax evasion or smuggling, etc. We're pitiful. We are talking about these few things that we know are going to be collecting, about making a budget, and when we do that - we do not promise lies - we will make an amendment and strengthen the areas that we choose to strengthen. So, what are the areas that we choose to strengthen and in what way? It seems very clear. For example, the Ministry of Health says that from 48,000 euros we are going to 80,000,000 euros, i.e. 32,000,000 more, i.e. 45% more. From that, then, we are giving a large amount of money to the health sector. If you take them in sectors and in order, you will understand where we are making an economy and where we give money. What are we doing? For the first time after all these years, we've been hiring. Intakes of nurses and hires of doctors. Have you ever heard of recruiting in recent years? If you see the evaluation at the Ministry of Shipping with the very little money and that's where it's hiring, beyond the fact that it pays off wages that hadn't been paid in the previous years. I am referring even to the Ministry of Shipping, which is a further 30 000 000 000 in the total budget for the entire Ministry, where things were glamorous. And you'll see what's reducing. It reduces waste, that is, the things of simple management. Let's go down. What does a Left want with what it can at this time, in the specific political context that we have? He goes to the Ministry of Education and there, if you see it, he goes with 120,000,000 more than the 15th budget. I am going to the other part, because we have said that we will support the primary sector first. We're going to the Department of Development, going to 140,000,000 more. And I want to say it because the ratio is important. We're not talking about billions. We're talking about 463,000 euros and going to 603,000 euros. We're talking about a 35% extra. It is a large proportion, namely, of the reallocation of the budget in three specific areas. That is what we can do this year. Of course, there is, beware of, a new sector, which is of great value to say, because we are shaping it and that is what matters. It is an excellent job for the new development model of this government, which emphasises increasing liquidity and employment through actions to support the unemployed. A total of 111 835 people will be employed, with a six-month or twelve-month duration, with an amount of order close to 500 million euros. A lot of money, that is, in the low layers. Of course, I am talking about the JRC's colleagues, who at least one speaker recognised us as being left-wing Members. It is of great importance, of course, for the economy I mentioned above, to see the following. I'll get an example. There is a building that can house all the services of the Ministry of Finance, which has already planned it. We will save EUR 2.7 billion from rent and from the use of a building, for which we pay every month rent and it is empty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are similar buildings, like the Piraeus courts, and too many other things, I'm sorry we don't have time. This is the direction of our own government: saving resources with proper management. That's what we can do. I recognise that this is not left, but certain areas that show the direction of the Left. We are serving them with the funds I have said before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u645	Thank you, Mrs. Caracosta. It is good to repeat that when we talk to people, they ask for people after the speech on staff, the Members of Parliament are involved and we stop discussing the budget and discuss the problems that are created. It is good to deliver our opinions without addressing faces, that is to say, fellow Members in simple words. We shall proceed to the next speaker. Mr Yiannis Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u646	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days a year ago, today's ruling party called on the Members of the Officerial Representation to vote against the process of electing a new President of the Republic and to cast the elected government at the time. A year ago SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks fought rabies every reform effort of the previous government, claiming that all the country's suffering was due to the obscured memorials, which would be abolished by a law and an article in one night. Today, after a year in power, the current State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Mardas, argues that it was a tragic mistake of previous governments who did not apply the memorandum faithfully. And this is obviously not an ideological mutation. It seems that the syriza has made SYRIZA a worse government and the cynical pursuit of power without principle than it was in Anti-Policy. Only cynicism was the Prime Minister's position yesterday to the MPs of the ruling party, where he did not hesitate once again to baptise himself as a success in the third memorandum and to promote as a positive development the break-up of the banking system through the referendum and the capital controls, of course, also through the dismantling of the recapitalisation. But his ministers don't go back. Lacking the slogan "those who come, why the positions will be closed", they are engaged daily in a struggle for the occupation of the state, thinking that SYRIZA will long-lasting power. The cases are, of course, daily in order to be able to ignore or justify them, with a more recent example, the Minister for Infrastructure with the famous amendment, which he wanted to appoint six instead of three Presidents and CEOs at the respective CEC. In the budget now. It is well known that the government's relationship with mathematics is not the best. No matter what inaccuracies are said, no matter how misinformation is produced in this Chamber, no matter how much the SYRIZA and Independent Greeks want it. In this regard, the figures are vague and confirm what every reasonable person has been stressing to this government since last summer, namely that with its tactics it returns to recession, primary deficits and, of course, the increase in public debt, which was supposed to be negotiating to reduce it. I am not going to extend to the general elements anymore. In addition, the reference was made by our rapporteur and the special speakers. I will also concentrate on the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, whose vote traditionally gathers the consent of all parties. With regard to the political priorities of your term of office from the first day of the government's taking office, a number of inappropriate announcements have been recorded. I am emphasizing some of them: immediate wage recovery of the Armed Forces' officials on the basis of the decision of the Council of State, said Kammenos on 6-10-2015 (from the Minutes of Parliament), payment of the border allowance, Prime Minister Tsipras and Minister of National Defence after the end of the exercise 'APARMENIA', payment of the one-off aid on the basis of the former Government of the Republic of New Democracy, said the Minister of National Defence, as is apparent from the institutional correspondence, and some others that have not yet been undiscovered, such as finding credits for new armaments, on (27-1-2015), finding credits for the maintenance of existing instruments and weapon systems, also on 27-1-2015. I could mention more, but I will tire this House. However, they all have one common feature: the lack of basic planning and the provision of corresponding appropriations. And if we want to make an honest calculation of what the budget provides and not a numerical calculation of the anchor, it would be more useful to verify the credibility of the government. We read in L.4336/2015, which is also known as the third Memorandum, paragraph 2.1: 'The Government commits itself to a permanent reduction in the ceiling for defence expenditure by EUR 100 million for 2015, which will amount to 2,2% of GDP in 2016', i.e. around 400 million. I put the relevant provision in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As regards the reduction of the number of executives, all of us still have the ears of the statements made by the Minister of National Defence Mr Kammenos last summer that he will not sign redundancies in the Armed Forces, which he finally signed. How is this reflected in the 2016 budget commitment? First of all, with a reduction in appropriations by 195 million for 2016. And given that in 2015, Minister, you exceeded the budget by 100 million, there is, of course, a hole and secret cuts, which will amount to EUR 300 million for 2016. So the real cutting bill for the Armed Forces seems to be much higher. I think the Minister should give us an explanation where these additional EUR 100 million were spent in 2015. I would ask, in view of the fact that this year the remaining 50% of the remuneration for the personnel of the Armed Forces given by the Government of New Democracy was not paid, and that, let us not forget, it is also paid at the expense of other operating expenditure and it has, of course, ceased to be given the one and the retired. So two are the main issues and conclusions from the reading of the budget figures. Firstly, that you are not going to implement any of the promises you have made in an election campaign to the officials of the Armed Forces, and there is no provision for payment of the remaining 50% approved by the Council of State. There is no provision for the payment of the frontier allowance committed by the Prime Minister, and we do not know how and to what level the one-off aid will be paid, because, as is apparent from a reply given to me by the Deputy Minister of Labour, the Government rejects the application of a clause of integrity introduced by the Government of New Democracy, which ensures that there will be no sharp changes in the single and viable shareholder funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Secondly, the Government does not explain through which codes and through which plan the cuts you signed from the third Memorandum will arise. Suppose I had the equipment? There goes one of you announcing. Is it from reducing the number of the troops? There goes the second proclamation. In what way? Will the forces and structures of the Armed Forces be restructured? We do not know that. It is obvious that there is in the government a secret agenda for the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, the first budget for the Left is a historic event. And because the figures do not change depending on the party identity or wishful wishes of each observer, all that this budget for 2016 shows is how inexpensive the rhetoric of the Left was and how empty the so-called left social sensitivity. The account of this rhetoric, however, is paid by all Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u647	Thank you. Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u648	Thank you very much, Mr President. You are bringing the ratification of the State Budget for the year 2016, which even your friends, corals, as you said when you were opposition, are considered to be material. MORGAN STANLEY, for example, provides for a deeper recession for '16, with a general government debt of more than 206% of GDP. The IMF provides for a recession by 2020. 'CAPITAL' provides for a recession for '16' and new measures and, finally, Deutsche bank sees a fourth Memorandum. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Left and the Left, you bring in another material budget, shifting all its weight to taxes, in order to achieve your central budgetary objective. What's your difference from the former government of New Democracy - PASOK? What's your social policy and what's your leftist sensitivity? None. Let me remind you of Article 106 of the Constitution: In order to consolidate social peace and protect the general interest, the state plans and coordinates economic activity in the country, seeking to ensure the economic development of all sectors of the national economy and takes the necessary measures to exploit the sources of national wealth. What are these measures you are taking? How are you going to use them? In a material budget? Furthermore, Article 106 of the Constitution says that you must promote regional development and the promotion of especially the economy of mountainous, island and border regions. How will you achieve this? With this budget? With VAT on the farmers and the islands? Taxes, taxes, taxes? With no care for the mountain and island regions of the country, as the Constitution says? Nothing to develop. But let us see a pillar of growth, the Greek shipping, which accounts for 7% of GDP, offers two hundred thousand jobs and gives our country an international prestige. And what are you doing? You continue your memorandum policy, you continue taxation to the Greek seafarers, who offer valuable currency, reduce pensions, sell ports and marinas. When you came down with the FMYLE's porters and protest and declare that PPA and all the other ports will not be sold, all these people believed you. And now, the first thing you do is sell PPA. You're just in the bazaar for the final sale. And then come the rest of the ports. With regard to infrastructure projects for ports, you yourself have said that you have only 10% of resources. So you're gonna do some patches. And I remind you that you continue on the matter of shipping to operate with the laws of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, with memorandum laws. Like the coup d'état of the New Democracy and PASOK, you're writing numbers in a material budget, in another Memorandum of Understanding, which does not respond in reality and in practice is all inapplicable. Why is everything inapplicable? I'll tell you about shipping again. Have you calculated how much the NAT deficit for 2016 will be? The extra cost of maritime education, the extra cost of the Port Body? About the increasing unemployment of Greek seafarers? Have you calculated the costs for barren lines? How will you improve competitiveness in shipping? Unfortunately, like previous governments, you will fail. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Let's see the Department of Defense. And here we live the theater of irrationality, because New Democracy blames SYRIZA. The New Democracy, which cut it, tells SYRIZA "when you will apply the budget and when you will bring all the things that we have cut off". If that's not absurd, what is it? And we are talking about a reduction in the budget right now for the Ministry of Defence at around 40%. In other words, they are barely reached for wages and supposed maintenance of the existing military equipment. What are you going to do about the Greek defence industry? Is there going to be a new armament program? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would also like to remind you of a statement by a large member of the 'GOLDMAN SACKS' that the memorandum will be implemented in Greece, whatever the government may be. They knew what would happen. You just submitted and signed the new sellout of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u649	Thank you, Mr. Kouzeli. Mr. Theocratic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u650	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the first budget of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL. After 40 years of post-population and governance of the country by New Democracy and PASOK, for the first time an economic policy is formulated from a different and completely independent political point of view. And it was next for our people to decide and put in opposition the representatives of the old political system of two-partyism, offering them four defeats in four consecutive elections - and show that they did not receive the message - since the forty-year New Democracy and PASOK budgets - we have to remember these - have exceeded the country, they have exceeded the narrow and wider public sector. They carried out their policies, by a overwhelming percentage, on the basis of these credits. Their policies were neither viable nor necessary. It was just because they were privatized. Our people say that for free guys. They were carved and implemented, without any plan at all, beyond the plan to re-elect their inspirations and the perpetuation of the old political system. They overdue the country - it is another thing to overcome and even worse to overdue - as they knew that domestic GDP could not serve the rates of borrowing. They have created and implemented their budgets and policies, with loans from the future, with loans from the next generations, with loans from their own children, our children. These were the budgets for forty years of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the old political system. The results tragically, sadly and impatiently, as the representatives of the old political system themselves received for decades of exorbitant and multiple wages, and now their children, are unemployed or low-paid or economic immigrants, although with more qualifications. They received themselves a terror and double and three times a day when their children, our children, won't get anything. They were retired early and received and still receive great pensions when our children don't even expect them to be retired. They have received huge loans for their businesses, without control, without guarantees, without business viable plans, when our children are unable to receive even a housing loan. Banks only give housing loans if you have the equivalent amount in cash. These were the budgets of the old political system. In every section and sector of the public sector, in each PDP, there was, with the blessings and high supervision, or at least the tolerance of the two-partyism, the dismantling of public money, black money over and under the table, over-paid employees, the production of work, the recruitment of temporary and mature staff, and the permanent overcrowded, etc., in no number. Subsidies on agricultural and all European funds granted for thirty consecutive years were to a large extent wasted solely for the perpetuation of electoral clienteles, the party army and the creation of supposedly political officials, which led the country to the rocks. And all of this - I repeat - with loan from the future, with loan from their children, from our children, with loan from the then future, which is the present. The private sector in this distorted environment, however, also developed in a distorted way, i.e. in a complex and complex way with the old-party system. For example, it received large entrepreneurial loans only if they were partyly pleasing to private individuals, without any other conditions, and in particular if their power was attractive to the political system, for example, median, bank and contractor establishment. These were their budgets. Budgets for over-lending, over-charged, depreciating the narrow and wider public sector, and destroying the insurance funds. That is what we find in front of us today. It was once that they brought the country to the crisis. Lending had to be limited to repaying foreign lenders, so we reached the start of the crisis. Who were the budgets of PASOK and New Democracy then? Just as much as they were earning or - in fact - their own executives and partners borrowed them now the Greek people had to pay for them. The money they have received in the above way that the country now owes, must now be paid by employees, workers and pensioners with horizontal reductions. Young people with their unemployment and the definitive loss of any expectation of retirement. These were the budgets and balance sheet of the old political system, and neither we nor the Greek people should forget that. We can't hear that something broke in your hands and that it's your fault. I have not, of course, mentioned the scandals that I have mentioned before them. The 2016 budget is a budget within the economic crisis, but it also has social orientation. We do not turn the face to those in need of immediate employment, to social structures and social protection. What, then, is our distinct budget line very soon? We are taking measures for our fellow citizens who are suffering, for the poor people's strata, who are not citizens of a second and third category and whom we represent. This is how we establish the health card of uninsured people, the gradual implementation as of 1 April 2016 of the effort of a minimum guaranteed income program, the movement card for the unemployed and the continuation of actions related to the humanitarian crisis. And I stress that the humanitarian crisis law was passed in crisis and economic war conditions. We must not forget that. We move on to health recruitment, as well as to an increase in the grant of hospitals by EUR 262 million, something that is necessary today that most of our population is resorting to public health because of the economic closeness. It is absolutely necessary to focus on the proper functioning of hospitals. It is also very important that the instalment of low income borrowers will be subsidized. The Katseli law has improved beyond the destructive and dangers of the mediation system. The funds for the Port Corps and the Greek Coast Guard are increased. With regard to the ESRB, we are moving on to its immediate absorption and I would like to stress that the self-employment of young graduates of higher education has been strengthened for the first time since 2009. In closing, the consensus may not have given it to the old political system nowadays, although pre-electionally all parties - New Democracy, PASOK, Potami - "please" for consensus, for co-government and for participation in the implementation of any measures. In conclusion, in today's exceptional economic circumstances, the government's budget combines budgetary balance with a social value, and I therefore call on you, since I stress that the latter and the third will be much better, to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u651	Thank you very much. Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u652	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to my SYRIZA colleagues in particular that in the last few days we have been living to hear you. Read the announcements of the SYRIZA party calling for a protest tomorrow against SYRIZA's policy. We must listen to the Minister, Mr Marda, to say that we are not sufficiently liberal, because you seem to have become more liberal and more loyal to the implementation of the memorandum. To listen to the Minister, Mr Apostlelos, saying that he brings in and votes for an amendment so that it does not apply. And even more so, to listen to the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, who, having brought and voted in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs last Thursday, predicting pension measures of 1,8 billion, two or four hours later with all formality, called on the leaders of the opposition parties to disagree with his policy, with what he went through in the Committee on Economic Affairs and to sign a paper on the grounds that pensions should not be reduced. This is political surrealism, ladies and gentlemen. You will allow me to continue to congratulate you, because this budget provides for a recession this year. Last year predicted growth. With your policy you also overturned this in the middle of the road. We return to the recession, but obviously this will serve a good purpose, which we cannot see. I would like to give you the credit, because on the basis of this budget, unemployment will get something else. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] But, Mr President, if you are responding at this time, it is obviously left-wing unemployment and, therefore, this unemployment is useful. Also, to say good for capital control, because it is obviously a key hit by SYRIZA and ANEL on capitalism. That's why you deserve it! Of course, I know that you have fought it and that you have been blackmailed by the Brussels neoliberal priesthood. Undoubtedly! You threw your shirts blackmailed. And by extortion you decided, subjugating extortion, to increase the state's dues to private individuals from 3.8 billion last December to 6 billion in September. By another terrible blackmail you have again decided to limit the influx of funds from Brussels for the ESRB and thus in the first half of 2014, the country took 1.5 billion while in the first half of 2015, with you, the government, EUR 440 million. It was an extortion of Brussels. As blackmail from Brussels is that the Ministry of Infrastructure has stopped most projects, including motorways. It's one blackmail after another. Poor government! What blackmail you take every day! Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying this to represent the infallible person or to claim that our party does not have things to see for the past, but also for the moment in relation to the electoral process. I don't want to hide behind my finger. However, because circumstances are critical and historical, this theater of the irrational government leads nowhere. I don't care that she hurts herself. I care that it hurts the country. That cannot continue, so I would say three things to you. The first: After coming down from the sphere of Nefellockygia - to remember Aristophanes - land in reality. There are certain rules in the European Union, there are certain rules in the economy and these rules need to be complied with and you need to be reconciled with reality. The second is that you will proceed with the structural changes that you have agreed on. Because you have signed, for example, for privatisation, but the Ministry of Shipping asks with its document to limit the extent of the privatisation of the PPA, thus limiting the price. Or Mr. Spirtzis, the Minister for Infrastructure, says if what you signed, we'll cry. You'll cry! I don't understand what kind of bipolar political syndrome this is. What do you want? What do you represent in this country? You are, it seems to me - in the end, Mr. Panousis was right - his left nothing. And thirdly: abandon the logic of distribution, because what the country needs primarily - of course, we need social justice - is production. We need to attract investment. And with the brains you have, what will happen is that the last investors will leave the country as well. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the first half of '14 we had 1 billion foreign direct investment. In the first half of the 1915s, with you, we had 33 million, thirty times less investment. Well, communication won't save you. The hope of SYRIZA and the Left faded. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you do not remember me. The way you do it, in a short time, you'll collapse and fall into braces.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u653	Thank you, Mr Hatzidakis. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, no comments! Mr. Michelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u654	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, referring to the budget might perhaps attempt to identify itself as accurate and correct in his views, giving figures and indicators. This effort is being made today by the major opposition. But this attempt has structural problems, it is based on one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-way. In particular: First of all, the attempt of counter-population ignores, no matter whether economic choices serve society first and foremost the weak social classes that make it up and not the interests of a small economic elite. Of course, we know that this view is not taken by everyone in this House. For our part, we consider it advisable to point it out and recall it. Secondly, the opposition ignores, disregards or hides the country's current conditions, for which, as governments in the past, are not responsibilities, but also the international treaties, which I think all of us regard as being more unfavourable. I appreciate that the first is done to some extent by a sense of guilt about the country's state of affairs, and I understand that. Thirdly, the opposition ignores, hides the historical formation and route of the Greek state, as if it had not been for many decades and started operating only in January of '15, with the takeover of government power by SYRIZA. He is constantly referring to the Left, a left that many inspire, today being the only hope of exit, others are concerned, but others are also frightened. How else can I interpret its continuing, comprehensible reference to the discourses of the Vice-Presidents? Fear of the upcoming changes or their sincere concern about where the Left is going today? I'd say, obviously, the first is true. Let's get a little more detailed about this. Firstly, the budget, whether in normal conditions or in today's crisis emergencies, should take account of social data first and foremost, without this being ignoring economics. It's a matter of priority. The Left in all its historical versions had the top priority of society and especially the weak social classes. The economy was a tool to support them. Today's budget in the suffocating difficult conditions attempts to tackle and satisfy this priority. It does so with the support of young people, who directly refer to weak social strata, such as public health and public education. Secondly, the current budget has been drafted and submitted at a time when the country has already lost 25% of GDP, wage labour has lost 40%, small and medium-industrial production has been completely dismantled, the unemployed are approaching one and a half million citizens and to date their expectations of finding work are small. The social economic effects of the last five years have obviously not been achieved on the Left. They are the distillate of political precedents, which since 1981 has joined the Community, after which the European Union has managed in the most selfish and irrational way the coarse money that has entered the country, indifferent or consequent to the collapse of dozens of businesses, cement, fertilizers, cloth and paper, etc. They economically strengthened the old fireplaces or created the news in a masterpiece, so that they all had an economic and social support base. Today we are told that workers' claims and left-wing support to them have brought these results. Historical inaccuracy, so that I don't call it a coarse lie. I am not one of those who, by definition, regard as fair any request, nor those who do not see any of the trade union techniques. But I would like to point out, as an exaggeration of the workers and the left, the indictment of their struggles. Finally, I consider it useful to refer to the implementation tool not only of the budgets but also of all the government's decisions, the state mechanism, an irrationally structured mechanism, limited performance, to confine myself to them only. Does the previous authority have anything to say about this? It would not, of course, require a historical regression in the formation of the Greek state, although it would be useful to draw the necessary conclusions to correct it. But doing so at best or denounce SYRIZA for attempting to create a party state is not very convincing to anyone. As much as some insist that the Greeks forget after a few years, which may be true to some or the unscrupulous, there is also a large portion that remembers and experienced them. And recently, at least many of us are the '67-74 dictatorship. A few days ago the House honoured the Polytechnic anniversary with excellent, indeed unanimous speeches to the majority of them, not with the presence of most of the Members of the major opposition. Let it be. The sitter's been there as long as he's there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. To conclude, I would like to point out briefly that the budget in the current difficult conditions for which some in and outside the country have shaped and are, however, responsible - not the Left - is the least possible to support the financially weak. We are called upon to implement this budget with a worn state mechanism, the birth of previous governments. We are fully aware of the difficulties that exist, both because of objective data and because of interests within the Greek society, which they obviously insist and want to continue to dominate. We have the ability, we have the social acceptance, we have the exterior good witness. We'll keep trying, and we'll succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u655	Thank you, Mr. Michalis. Please, Mr Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u656	When we say sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that the archive is being avenged, we mean it, because the opposition has often called it in order to improve the distance between words and works, choices and phrases. I wanted Mr Kostis Hadjidakis to be here a year ago to remind him that from this point of view, a year ago, in the budget debate was Mr Gikas Hardouvelis. Do you remember that? Gikas Hardouvelis. He is the Minister of Finance of the growing, take-off, said to us by Mr. Hadjidakis, who is ready for the orbit of the development of a country, who at the Conference on "Investment in Greece and Development Policy 2014" said: "I am here to help change the situation, as we are at the edge of the razor". He didn't say we were in development. In fact, at this same conference, he said - in which, of course, no anarcho-communists participated - that the productive effect of the country has returned to the 1960s. This is the developmental, take-off vessel of the previous government, and I put this in the Minutes, so to remember. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are talking about Gika Hardouvelis, who really had such confidence in the Greek economy, who was making ten to ten grand abroad, and when they said 'good, because you were getting them ten to ten thousand abroad' - nine thousand, nine hundred, ninety, nine to not exceed the ten limit - he said 'but I felt the same insecurity that the other Greek citizens felt'. He was the former Minister of Finance, who sat in this particular seat and defended in November and December 2014 the 2015 budget. So, just so we don't forget, because some people think we have a goldfish memory. This budget is trying to marry, however difficult it is, as desirable as necessary, fiscal stability with social justice, the stress and the burden of a burdenful agreement with the existing data of the people's interests. Mode of understanding, consensus, conscientiousness, just how we mean the public interest. And instead of rushing to seize as a lifesaving the Prime Minister's proposal for consent, consultation, conspiracy to a single national red line of non-reduction of pensions, which would result in a possible reduction? The first possibility would indeed be that the lenders would back up and say "no reduction in the main pensions" and would believe the whole political world, that all together put their backs and set the red line in relation to the twelfth in the last five years, reduction in pensions, gentlemen and subsidiary. The negative what would it be? Say 'no' the troika, the government and the opposition must be charged at that time very tempered and quite rightly said 'we supported you, but you did not negotiate properly and you lost the game'. But even this logic and practice, party blindness, party empathy, Samara-Venizelo line confirmation syndrome is crumbling, keeps both PASOK and New Democracy hostage. In the ashes of a country, the line of poor Antonis and poor Vaggelis must be confirmed, who very much wanted to offer, but were not able to leave! Three basic things have this budget that the previous ones did not have: it adopts the logic of redistributing burdens for the weaker, aiming, on the one hand, at guaranteeing budgetary stability and on the other, at guaranteeing social justice by opening the way out of the crisis. For words, the man who listens to me will tell me. Three hundred million is for hospitals. The "PAGERGORGY" has now threatened. I remember answering the other Cappadakis, candidate for the New Democracy, for the hospitals. For the years 2013-2014-2015, 211 million is owed by the “PAPAGEORGIOU” to EOPY, or rather by EOPY to “PAPAGEORGIOU”. Now they remembered to blackmail and threaten to shut down the hospital. They owe three years 211 million! They will tell me: Is this a matter that should be seen in politics, that you are different? Yes! Sixty-two million is a lot? It's minimal. They're crumbs! With Law 4093/2012 you cut, in the indication of extreme poverty, forty-two thousand returnee Pontius from the former Soviet Union, Northcontinental, Constantinople, economic migrants, last, 360 euros. By your law, 2012, you who are now sheding crocodile tears to reduce pensions, gentlemen and subsidiary. We came to see this on 7 July, and the other parties backed us in L.4331, Article 31 and shameful of the House - and also our shame! - We cleared it up because of the blackmail of the Memorandum partners. And now, we specialize in a specific code in the budget of 62 million. Is there a lot? No, it's minimal, it's crumbs. It is only 240 euros for the old people, for the old ladies over sixty-five years standing in the tails of the piles of western Thessaloniki, Eosmos, Cordelios, Minnemenis, the Vineyards. You do it, New Democracy, more. How? Bring back 200 million. You owe them. You owe them to the banks and they go out to four with a lot of nerve. Because it's a great deal of nerve to talk about, saying that the debts of the New Democracy should be erased, 200 million. Do the 62 million 262 million, so that it is not 250 euros old and old. Be 500, 600, 700. Do it to you who love retired people! It's a great deal of courage to talk about when you cut 11 times pensions and made Christmas presents, Easter and licensed museums already. It's a lot of nerve to talk about when you sent three hundred thousand young scientists, the bloom of Greek society, to the four parts of the horizon. It is courageous to speak of courage when your own parties along with your own media, along with your own banks in a good incestual relationship, were necessitating public money: free television licenses, free television time, free bank money. Well, it's a lot of nerve to talk about when you owe it. And there are the necessary documents that will be requested on a permanent basis. Already Mr. Papagelopoulos said: "I do not believe the bankers and the administrations of the banks should demand that they do not come back". I'm covered by the Minister's position, and I'll wait for immediate implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u657	Thank you. Mrs. Canelley has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u658	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the communication tank for SYRIZA has been finished so far by January. And today it's over and there's proof. You will not be presenting as a democratic development that seventy Members have spoken today, ignorantly, and that the ministers did them a favour. Because today the TVs are strikein'. That's why there's no Minister here. And all the ministers will accumulate tomorrow. They won't accumulate just for the impressions. Oh, no! They will accumulate, because tomorrow the journalists will not strike, to cover the strike, it is not said what has happened here in the House with the ministers and the holidays, so that no one can get any credit for how many people abducted, where it happened, what happened. In fact, nothing. Tomorrow will be the day of ministerial phanpharmaceuticalism within Parliament. You'll boil the media, you'll say what you want, but you've worshipped them before ammunition as a built-in Left! The rest are words from the wicked. We live in a country where you must tell us how many shares of the banks you loaded on the back of the Greek people, recapitalisationing, you who were talking about banking and mini-occupation and other things, how many shares they make a ticket to urban transport. Tell me about it. How many shares you have to sell. With something 0.04 and doing 1,40 how many shares? How many do you want? Do you show tails to the banks and you want to convince us that you're making a left policy, because there's no potato movement and because the fascist doesn't share onions? Is that what you want? That level of impression? Sit down and speak of the former left-wing, the left-wing, respect for the left-wing struggles, presenting with their past and their struggles, which no one will question, many of the left-wing struggles. Nobody wants to question them. Are you going to take these fights today and make them a budget code? In this budget that cuts the last? When the JRC says "Coherents are the Memorandums" and this is the third one, we can tell you more schematically, to understand it. The two previous killed rights, welfare, pensions, morality. You were yelling for suicides. You also made them an ideological sign that people killed themselves from his desperation. What's this budget? Cheap grave. You're making a cheap tomb. You'll also sign in. Very good. It's a tombstone. It's a definitive tombstone in rights. You don't talk, why? Because you are within the European Union, by adopting the last paragraph of the modern European policy, which is summarized even in immigration, even in pensions, and even in OECD tools in that famous TINA. It's still a TINA. Does people know what TINA is? Oh, no. Let's say it. It is the modern form of thoracic line: ‘There is no alternative’. That is what you say, 'there is no alternative'. In fact, and the world that will strike tomorrow you will use it - classic form of opportunism - to go out and say chunkyly that the world is pushing you, a world that you do not recognize but after the stay that PAME has announced, it has gone out, it has gone to the neighborhoods, it has gone everywhere, you have charged it five hundred thousand times because it doesn't come together in your own squares, now you download it in the same square. The same square as who? The same machete square as the resistance to extortion. You are changing the content of the strike - that is what you are doing - as you have changed migration. Immigration has altered it and you have shown this agreement to the suppression, which literally bottles the country. You are cutting left farewell for a migratory tragedy that is European policy. The deal with Turkey has nothing to do with it. It has nothing to do with it. It has to do with converting the country into a buffer zone, that is to say in an intermediate zone, in which, in hot spots, the cheap labour hands will be sorted out. You're allies with Turkey. You did not say a left talk about NATO and its imperialist character. You do not go down for December, the essentials, the historical December of the Greek people. Oh, no. Turkey is an ally. He's in NATO. You have to defend her. Who will you defend? You will defend the country that makes money from the refugees by creating the expansion of its sovereign rights in the Aegean Sea, by dragging the people into the perception, a people of noble, benign, tolerant, solidarity, which, in its poverty, shared everything, in a Europe that is now institutionalised. Christmas will Europeans do for the sale of terror? Where's your left? What did you say when the Twin Towers fell and similar measures were taken by the Americans? Were you saying what the JRC was saying? What if you were talking about it today? It is expressed in cold blood and you will see it in Greek phenomena. Already there are constituencies where the fascists in their area in France take armed licenses to make security battalions. This is where we lived. Because they don't move because he's running a trial? Hasn't the world figured out what this is about? The problem with refugees and all that is presented as a commercial problem and does not go through trains, etc., is an extortionary acceptance of European policy and you present it as such so that it can give rise to a deeper humanitarian emotional horror, the Greek who belongs to the three million, the four million, which has lost both the last and the last rights and hope. Are we coming here now and talking about hopes, percentages and codes? Are we serious? When the previous losses come and these are added, do you want extortion revenues? Yeah. You want to make a protest why you were blackmailed? Do it. There's no left man who's burned that seventeen hours of negotiation got him, by the way. There isn't. Left resistance has more than seventeen hours of resistance. Mercy, that is, from one point to the next. You start using the "buffalo" in all its versions. You create impressions. Listen. You have reversed the saying in both refugee and nato-navy and in the agreements, in fact, for the use of the bases that you are giving them, as the Cypriots have been forced to do. Let me see how you deal with the liberated Turkish visa in an Aegean Sea that has dead pilots, has great difficulty, it has historical significance, but for NATO it has a different border in air and sea. What leftlessness do you stand against NATO and his imperialist interventions? What leftlessness do you stand against the transfer to Inchirlic of all forces in the use of Souda? And in the middle of the 'botitised' refugees between the West and the East, the passage and our periphery. The Eastern one is to agree to become a safety zone for defending the miserable, manifestly capitalist and now a wildly imperialist Europe's interests towards the West, which is suddenly interested in the Mediterranean. All former French, English, German, American. So don't give a left-wing national patriotic form to the support of a budget, having MPs come here with a code "How to defend him, he is less suffering, he is less pregnant, he is less lethal, the grave is cheaper" and above all ask for consent from above the others. It's no accident. You reversed the saying. Caesar's wife - she says - should not only be, should also be honest. It takes you as a left modern and integrated into the capitalist system to look left and kill if you are not. It proves it by numbers and your budget. You killed yourself, that's why you never answer to the CCP, but never. On the things that he puts you in real positions, you never answer, because he cannot be a left-wing man with the wealth that produces a working class that today wants to be confronted with the charity of the migrant in the same country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u659	Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u660	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my region, that is, Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, unfortunately has the sad privilege of being the poorest in Greece and one of the poorest in Europe together with Epirus and Western Macedonia. But let us stand by the figures that in a light of the economic and development realities of our region. EUROSTAT made available on 21 May the provisional data on the GDP of the regions in 2013. In Greece for another year, my region had the bitter first to have the lowest per capita GDP of all the Greek regions. In purchasing power units it was only 52% of the European average. Our region produces only 4% of the country's GDP when Attica produces 50%. We see that Rhodope had the biggest drop in her life in particular, where I am elected, which in 2012 produced only 72% of what she produced in 2008. My region, despite the parallel Community support frameworks and the ESDP, has not been able to convene not only in the Community, but not even in the national data. Rhodope in the years of the crisis experienced the greatest loss of income. The region, based in particular on agriculture and public administration, in low added value sectors, has unfortunately not been able to develop dynamically. Ladies and gentlemen, these days in Komotini the General Hospital of Komotini serving ten thousand citizens is on the verge of suspending its operation. Unfortunately, hospitals close one after another. Workers speak of a hundred and twenty empty organic positions that make the hospital’s operating environment suffocating. I don't know who's faulted. Maybe the previous governments, they can, they can. It's important that the hospitals close. The emergency department serves sixty thousand patients a year. At the same time, the Komotini Hospital keeps up every day with an overall of eighty-four nurses, while the gaps touch the seventy-two. It is indeed regrettable, ladies and gentlemen, that a region such as Thrace with so many advantages, such as its geographical location, its abundant rich production sources, its human potential, its multicultural composition, its proximity to huge markets in the Balkans, the European Union and the European Turkey, has been driven into such an economic turbulence in order to become the poorest region of Greece. But to change this picture requires taking advantage of the whole productive potential of the place, but without social, religious or ethnic divisions. I would like to address the SYRIZA Government's main ministers in particular and say to them directly: almost eleven months now in Thrace you do nothing but apply ANEL policy at all levels. You have avoided your left-wing identity and ideology and made the expressions of nationalism a political sovereign in Thrace. In Rhodope, you should know that seven thousand families are involved in the cultivation of tobacco, i.e. about thirty thousand people, a majority of all of our Muslim fellow citizens, live only from tobacco. Tobacco producers seek to break the oligopolistic commercial cartels that are completely draining their income, plunging the marketing area and exploiting the sweat of these people without any protection from the government. None! The policy you are implementing has exterminated our farmers. The taxation of farmers, the increase in VAT, the increase in contributions in favour of ELGA, all of this will lead to a total deadlock of 80% of the population in Thrace, condemning the prefecture to poverty. This poverty, this inappropriateness on your part has no religion, gentlemen of the Government. It's not about Muslims or Christians. Poverty has no origin. This cry is all the inhabitants of Thrace who are united and live harmoniously. Does this government have a plan for these people for this remote region? I don't think so. Does she care? I don't believe that either from the course so far in my area. In classic minority issues, and in minority, such as management committees, religious freedom, rights of assembly and association, I do not unfortunately see any political will to resolve issues and any intention to dialogue. The inhabitants of Thrace, without exception of religion and origin, do not seek special treatment, but are equal to any manifestation of everyday life. I hope to be disproved, but your policy, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is a conservative return that gives birth to memories from a past that we believe has been left behind definitively. I am certainly voting against the 2016 budget, saying that we deserve a better and more effective government at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u661	Thank you, too. Please, Mrs Papakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u662	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say to the Greek Parliament, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that I will vote against the State budget of 2016 not because I am not a member of the ruling majority, but because it is a budget that is plunging the country into the deepest recession in the last few decades. And in that sense, feeling deeply the responsibility which I have as representative of the Greek people in my constituency, I cannot accept such a fate for the citizens who have trusted you very recently. I do not want to say that your political amoralism has exceeded every limit. And I want to say to my dear colleague, Mrs Canelley, that you are not responding to anyone, not just to the Communist Party of Greece. You do not respond primarily to society. You do not respond to the anxiety of the citizens, who wonder what you are doing and where you do it. And I wonder why there really is an excess of nerve. I heard Mr Marda, who, ladies and gentlemen, called on the New Democracy because, he says, he did not apply the memos faithfully so that the country would leave an hour earlier than the crisis. Right there! And the question is, where was Mr Mardas then, when we were in a row? Where were you all today who, with your attitude, have also brought economic consequences, economic consequences? Because when you have an economic crisis like the one we've been experiencing for the past five years, and you've got a Dedicated Anti-Civilization political wing that rocks everyone and everything, this blocks the country's process to be able to return to normality, and it costs the economy, it costs society, it costs every household. There must finally be a law which says that the individual responsibility of the ministers and politicians who take and make such decisions and make such political choices must also be with their individual property. Because, at some point, populism also has limits. So this is with Mr Marda, who is a member of your government. I would like to ask now, as he is here, on the occasion of the top debate on the ratification of the 2016 state budget, Minister Stathakis. Answer the Greek people through the will of the Greeks, because you have not answered them: you are bringing us a budget with the features that I have told you previously codified, because time is limited. Why have you moved on to this injurious recapitalisation of the banks, which is testing the economy of the country and which has banned 80% of the occupation of the Greek State on banks in foreign distress funds, foreign investors? And why have you damaged, without taking a certain safeguard clause, either by postponing in case the value of the shares was low, while you could have asked for a threshold on the price of the shares without guaranteeing a single condition? And why did the Greek State not participate in the process in order to maintain the percentage of occupation and to amortise losses when the stock prices reinstate when the economic circumstances allow it? And why did you make this sort of recapitalisation, which the EUR 25 billion package turned it into a shrunk package of EUR 500 million, that is, a loss of 98%? So why didn't you have a chance to know that they would be involved in this dissertation fund process, that is, foreign houses who gave extremely low amounts of money in terms of the famous recapitalisation of shares? I would baptize her, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest scandal that has happened and I would ask, Mr President, that a special committee of this House should be set up to examine it. I have also exercised parliamentary control, and I look forward to the answers. But you're here, Minister, to give an answer. And the question that arises after that is this: What person do you come and talk about social policy'second time government left' when the minimum guaranteed income, which was essentially a policy, a provision to the citizens of those who live in extreme poverty? The previous government, therefore, had ensured - pilotically - the course of the minimum guaranteed income by 2015. So you know that 0.5% must be saved. It is here that Mrs Fotou, who had answered this issue in a timely question. It has certainly avoided committing itself, because its finances obviously do not allow it, that there will be no link between the preferential benefits and the minimum guaranteed income. Where will you save 0.5% to be able to walk the minimum guaranteed income for those families who live in extreme poverty? You're not answering the budget. And tell me something else: the Minister of National Defence, Mr Kammenos, who said very comfortably that the decision of the Council of State to restore the remuneration of the mandates would be fully enforced. In fact, he claimed that he has signed it, committed the money, that it is to be given, and that he expects the green light from you. So I ask you, Minister. When the regular budget of the Ministry of National Defence is reduced by 1,36%, namely by 44 million euros, tell me where you will find the restoration of the trustees in accordance with the decision of the Council of State and if what your Minister of Government said or lied to. Finally, I close because I hear a lot about culture and education in the'second government on the left', Mr President. Please tell me a lot. Well, you have no money to give from the regular budget. Well, we live in conditions of economic tolerance. The question is sponsorships, such as the Niarchos Foundation, which is given to the Ministry of Culture and you cannot absorb them, you are not capable and worthy of absorbing them, why are you losing them to the harm of culture, to the detriment of the citizens, to the harm of the country? The questions are here. They expect answers, and while you do not give answers, I tell you that with the budget of the recession - already a hundred and eighty thousand new jobs have been lost - you are increasingly harming the country. Therefore, do not challenge us by calling on us to vote on a budget which leads the country to the deepest recession that has ever passed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u663	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u664	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u665	Please, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u666	I listened carefully to the criticism of the banks. Long before you get to making descriptions of the biggest scandal, I'd like to remind you of two things. First, shortly after the banks were recapitalised for your day, you brought a law into this House that allowed the shares to be sold below the value of acquisition. I repeat. You brought a law that says the banks were recapitalised at a given price and spent the HFSF through the loan, the Greek State, 100 euros. After a while, on the occasion of a threatened bank with bankruptcy, you came and said "we will change the law that protected the acquisition price and allow the price to be lower". Recapitalisation of the specific bank referred to by the law was carried out. He signed a significant damage to the public at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u667	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u668	That's enough. I am referring to a specific bank. Therefore, the idea that the previous recapitalisation ensured acquisition prices is misleading. The last valuation in December 2014 for the value of banks' shares, before poor SYRIZA came to the country's governance, was talking about a loss of the stock value of 60% compared to the purchase price. So the idea that suddenly we have been in this situation is misleading. You have created this given in the light of the real developments in the economy. Let's go to this recapitalisation. This recapitalisation has certain characteristics. First, it takes place in the light of the accession of the Greek banks to the European banking system from 1-1-2016. I imagine - and you also share the idea - that it is a strategic goal for the country for banks to join the 124 banks of Europe that operate at the highest level of security, the highest rules of assurance and stability for the banking system. That was the target. The second objective was to complete the banks' recapitalisation process not to lead to a haircut of deposits. For opposition reasons, you might want to. It would probably have been a thought of you even, which you do not express out loud. Perhaps some destructive people would like this process to fail and get to this point with what that means. The second strategic objective, therefore, which, in time before the recapitalisation by the oral Drasakis, we directly stated, was: 'No, the deposits must be protected at all costs, not by any risk of closure of the deposits'. I mentioned two strategic goals. Let's go to the third strategic objective. Recapitalisation is carried out by means of a process at its centre of the European Central Bank. The European Central Bank was the body that was coming to say something extremely simple: how much money is needed to recapitalisation. No one else can say it, we cannot say it, you cannot say it. They would have decided how much money the recapitalisation is needed. Let me remind you here that last July and in the context of the agreement signed by the original estimates, they were talking about 25 billion. That's why we got a loan of 25 billion. A loan of 25 billion is provided for in the agreement for the recapitalisation of the banks. Shortly after reaching the ECB decision, which is final and irrevocable, the actual figure came down to 14 billion. That's for granted. Having this number, from there on, successful or non-recapitalisation is very simply determined by how much the money will put private individuals and how much the public will put. A successful recapitalisation - and you will agree - is to maximise the contribution of individuals. Unless there's someone here who would consider a successful recapitalisation to put all 14.5 billion in the HFSF and the public. If that were your goal, I assure you it wasn't our goal. Our aim was to recapitalisation on the basis of the fact that, where the European Central Bank has set the bar, the contribution of private individuals to be maximised and to reduce the public contribution to the minimum. What were you worried about exactly? In that the public contribution was EUR 5.8 billion and that it was not EUR 15 billion? To go now to the last safe criterion that you set about a minimum price, which has actually been a matter of concern to the government, because in fact all of the private old shareholders and the public have been damaged. That's a fact. This could have been avoided if we had a lower price. We have studied it, thought it out, reached the absolute conclusion in detail and reached a very simple given fact: if we put a minimum price on it, there would be no recapitalisation. Simple as that. I would therefore ask you, for the fourth and last time, to give us the three strategic objectives, and in particular to tell us where you disagree with these objectives. That was our strategy. That was the process. There is no other arbitrary procedure, neither from you nor from us nor from anyone else. Where do you ultimately disagree with the fact that the recapitalisation has achieved, that the process of recapitalisation of banks is smoothly completed, that deposits are secured and that from 1-1-2016 the Greek banking system is in full conditions of stability within the European system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u669	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u670	Minister, when you ask personally, the Member asks that he reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u671	There's time for New Democracy to answer us. He's got three days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u672	Mrs Papakostas, you will answer a minute, but we will not have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u673	Mr President, away from me - because I have heard Mr Stathakis answer a major question - criticism which is not based on a serious basis only by opposition zeal. We're not jealous, Minister. On the contrary, we are interested, as I imagine all, in good faith in the country's economy to go better and we are looking for the best solutions in order to achieve this. I would like to explain to you: in strategic goals, on the contrary, you have attempted in a wicked way - but with a very large style, which I do not think is dissipating from my questions - to do what? You have attempted to reverse the questions, saying whether or not my line with the questions raised on the major issue of the most injurious recapitalisation of banks that have ever been, is supposed to be in agreement with, or is not in line with, the strategic objectives. You know, I'm a lawyer and I'm defending my clients' rights. If I was a public attorney, I wouldn't have allowed this recapitalisation to take place. Do you know why? Not because I disagree with the strategic objectives with which I agree. In addition, New Democracy, by recapitalisation, tried to do what you say: achieve the strategic objectives by a difference. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The questions I raised did not answer. The most important thing is: How an investment - because recapitalisation is an investment - of EUR 25 billion has turned it into a shrinking EUR 500 million business. If the strategic goals that should have led us to the best result, they lead to this result, then you were wrongly driven. Do you know why? Because, apart from the minimum price that was the criterion, which you said you chose, between recapitalisation or the minimum price - you did not say that, Minister? - You chose to recapitalisation. Yes, sir. Why didn't you choose the postponement to get the best price?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u674	Please, Mrs. Papakosta, don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u675	I'm done, Mr. President. Because the Greek State did not participate in the process, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u676	Ms. Papakostas, the MPs are protesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u677	So he has questions for the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u678	He wants the Minister to answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u679	But then do not complain that Mrs Papakostas will be asking for the floor again. As you know, the Rules of Procedure are not allowed. Otherwise, we would all talk in the Chamber all the time. The Minister has the floor, but Mrs Papacosta will ask for the floor again. So please don't ask any more questions. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u680	I'm gonna need just a minute. I think I've been very clear and not at all of the evil strings to make rhetorical shapes. I was accurate with the facts. Firstly, the fact is that the value of your shares had been devalued for days by law and with a specific example of bank recapitalisation, which was threatened with closure. Secondly, I have not avoided concealing the strategy at all as it happened with the facts, with the data. I told you directly that the dilemmas and the process are formulated through the way it evolved. Nor did we discover how recapitalisation takes place, nor did we define a recapitalisation with our own choices. If we were to follow what you have implied, at the end these dilemmas would lead to what I have warned you, namely the haircut of the deposits and bank bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u681	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u682	Mr President, this cannot be done. They can't stay unanswered. You have to give me the floor for thirty seconds. I will respect the speaker, the following colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u683	Look, as you know, this kind of debate has been made exceptionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u684	We don't have a parliamentary representative, what do we do? It's coming up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u685	Mr President, let us also take the floor then and go by saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u686	Normally, under the Rules of Procedure, the Minister answers and if the parliamentary representative asks, he may be taken. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. We made a violation at the request of the Minister. I asked him "Would you like to answer Mrs Papakosta?" and answered 'yes'. So it's a matter of ending.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u687	But the Minister doesn't want to hear me, he's sure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u688	Mrs Olympia Telloridou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u689	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what has been said just before shows that the budget debate is finally evolving in the same pattern as the public debate. On the one hand, we are the government, who are trying to prevent and overthrow the current situation. On the other hand, it is the Opposition, which is trying to overthrow the government. Why do you want to overthrow the government? To bring back all those forces that led our economy to destruction, our society to despair and to our country in international imperialism, to just selfishly justify your past, a past condemned by the Greek people unequivocally. So the latest scenarios for left-hand parentheses in the form of universal and technocratic governments are being reintroduced, but scripts are worthwhile. And they will come to an end because in this SYRIZA Parliamentary Group you will not find speculators, no matter how much you wish it is, no matter how much you wish it is, no matter how much you try to create a climate that exists. We know that the path we are walking is difficult, but it is also beautiful and it is beautiful because we are convinced that it will lead our country to clarity. So this budget is socially oriented even though it is not possible to fully meet our political and social commitments. I would mention the 62 million overtime uninsured, recruitment for the first time in the field of health, the 300 million extra grants granted in this area. This budget is, at the same time, budgetaryly balanced, because it retains the debt, cuts operating costs, aims at effectively combating tax evasion. It is also a budget realistic because it is based on existing revenue and not on expected revenue that is naturally available - and there will be a fight against tax evasion, because this is the will of this government - they will be immediately redistributed into social benefits. Will you tell me "Is everything okay?" No, it's not. They will, however, become, because we are determined to lead to growth, to a new model of productive reconstruction based both on healthy private entrepreneurship and on the public and social sectors of the economy. In this effort we are well aware that we will have the mechanism of old klepsy, ruffles, subsidies that travelled to lists, exotic islands and tax shelters. But we will have the people with us because despite the difficulties they know we are on the threshold of a new era. This government will be judged by the implementation of its policy as described in the budget and not by the misleading screams of its opponents. So we are moving forward with a view to ensuring stability, restarting the economy, reforming the public administration, and we have a great deal of debt negotiation ahead of us. In this effort, our power is society, the world of work, creation and production. In this effort, we must all unite forces and not divide. It would be a mistake to say today that we are doing everything. But it would also be a crime to give up the effort. We are therefore appalling the desires and wishes of our people and are determined to stand at the top of the responsibility and the vindication of a better future. I am voting for the budget because I support the government and support the government, because I support the hope of our people and our youth, the hope of transforming our vision into reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u690	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tyloridou, especially because you are consistent in time. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-02-S1-commons.u691	With the consent of the House at 23.31' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 3 December 2015 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2016".
