ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 6-2-2015 authorisation, the Minutes of its Third Meeting of Friday, February 6, 2015, with regard to election 1, 2, 3 Vice-Presidents, two Quaestors and four Secretaries from Communism, Election IV Vice-President, a Quaestor and a Secretary from Quaestorial Response, election F Vice-President from the third to force Parliamentary Group of Response and the Z' Vice-President from the fourth to force of Parliamentary Group of Response.]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION The sole object of today's meeting is to read and develop the government's programming statements by the Prime Minister. Tonight, the President of the Government, Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras, will develop the programming statements and we will then settle the session for Monday, February 9, 2015, at 11: 00. This is the first time that the second meeting begins on the morning of next morning. This was done in my decision to have more time for Members to speak as many colleagues as possible. The debate will take place in accordance with Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: The government, within 15 days of the Prime Minister's being sworn to appear in the House and ask for a vote of confidence following the debate on its schedule statements. The President of Parliament, after consultation with the government, shall set the day when the debate on the schedule statements and the vote of confidence begins. Reading the government's schedule statements and the proposal for confidence are on a special agenda, which you have all received. The debate is under Rules 96(2) and 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the House - it is the articles which define the legislative debate and which have similar application - and it cannot be extended more than three days after its start. The speakers shall be registered after the reading of the schedule statements and until the end of the speech of the third registered speaker. I propose tomorrow that we give an extension for the listing of speakers up to the seventh registered speaker, so that there will also be a smooth listing. The vote on the proposal for confidence shall be taken as soon as the debate on the schedule statements is closed and no later than the 12th night of the third day following the start of the debate, unless the Government asks for the vote to be postponed for forty eight hours. The vote on the motions of confidence is always roll-call and the Ministers and the State Secretarys are also voting if they are Members of this House. The Government shall enjoy Parliament's confidence if the proposals in the preceding paragraphs are approved by an absolute majority of the Members present, but may not be less than 2/5 of the total number of Members. At tomorrow's meeting, if they wish, the Chief of Staff and the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups can speak. Parliamentary representatives, the Ministers, the Deputy Ministers and the State Secretarys, and, of course, the fellow Members, who will be here to speak, may also speak. If you accept my proposal, in addition to the speeches made by the Heads of State or Government, I propose that there should be a first-round cycle of seven speakers, which will include a Member from each parliamentary group, in order to have a first-rate representation of all the groups. If the parties wish - that is up to each parliamentary group - they may submit a list of speakers, as provided for in Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The speakers who will be given a list of parties will precede the speakers who will be registered with the electronic system. Colleagues who wish to take part in the debate and their name are not included in the lists they have given or will give their parties, or if their party has not given a list, they will be registered with the electronic system from the start of tomorrow's sitting and until the end of the speech of the seventh - I propose a speaker. For the purpose of your registration and because we have many new colleagues, please all ensure that you receive your electronic cards. I would also like to make it clear that Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure provides for the possibility of writing until the end of the third speaker's speech. I propose, as I said before, that we have this extension so that Members can be included and better prepared. Then, in order to ensure that Parliamentary seats are kept as closely as possible, I propose that a single list of Members should be drawn up with circles of speakers. Each cycle will consist of thirteen MPs, who will participate, according to the ratio represented in the parliamentary representation of the parties, five MPs from SYRIZA, three MPs from New Democracy, one MP from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, one MP from the Potami, one MEP from the Communist Party of Greece, one MEP from the Independent Greeks and one MEP from PASOK. The Members of the Chamber of Deputies will alternate with the MPs of the Opposition. The speakers will have the right to speak for seven minutes. The Rules of Procedure of this House also provide for a right of secondary education, but because experience has shown that there will be many interested speakers, I propose that we accept that speeches will be without a right of secondary education, so as to eliminate the list of speakers who have said they wish to speak. The ministers are entitled to speak for up to eighteen minutes of the hour. For the Deputy Ministers, for whom there is no special provision in the Rules of Procedure, I propose that they be able to speak for up to fourteen minutes of the hour and the Undersecretaries up to nine minutes of the hour. I would also suggest that we accept this interpretation of the Rules of Procedure which gives the Deputy Ministers the interim time between Ministers and State Secretarys. I would also remind you that the Ministers, the Deputy Ministers and the State Secretarys can take the floor whenever they wish, for brief interventions, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. In any case, however, I would remind you that, when the Minister is involved, it cannot be followed by a Member of the same parliamentary group, so that there will be a similar adjustment to the list, so that it can always be ensured that government and opposition are rotated. I would remind you that the Prime Minister, the political leaders and the ministers have the right to intervene. Parliamentary representatives are entitled to speak up to three times, and in particular for twelve minutes of the hour in their prototype, for six minutes in their dentistry and for three minutes in their tritology. But if they receive the floor after the Presidents of their parliamentary groups, they will be confined to six minutes for the seconds and three for the teratology, in accordance with Rule 167(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. However, because most of the parties' leaders are expected to speak before the Parliamentary Representatives and in order not to limit parliamentary representatives to shorter time than speakers' time, I would suggest that Parliamentary Representatives will generally be entitled to twelve minutes of protagonists, six dentistry and three trilogies as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Finally, I would remind you that the speaking time of the Members of Parliament is laid down in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. According to parliamentary traditions, to all the Heads of Parliament's Groups, there will be a tolerance of time in the development of their positions. With these introductory remarks, let me ask the House whether it is willing to go along with these rules. Does Parliament accept my proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-08-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. May I also announce that Parliamentary Representatives have been appointed for SYRIZA Mr.Nikos Friends, Mr. Athanasios Petrakos and Mrs.Olga Gerovasilis, for New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Mr. Spyridon -Adonis Georgiadis and Mr.Ioannis Vroutsis, for the Golden Dawn, Mr. Christos Papapas, for the Potamis, Mr. Haris Theocharis and Mrs. Antigonis Lyberakis, for the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Palis and Mr. Karathanasopoulos, for the Independent Greeks Mr. Nikos Nikolaopoulos and for the PASOK Mr. I would now ask Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to come to the Step towards reading and developing the government's programming declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-08-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery of our people's sovereignty, the restoration of our country's equal role in the institutional framework of the European Union, the response to the humanitarian crisis, the restoration of the dignity of our people, social justice and the cultural regeneration of our country, are the main objectives of the Government of social salvation that we created, following the dominant choice of our people on 25 January. I am fully aware of the difficulties and responsibility, I am fully aware that the vision of a country that is economically self-powered, socially just and nationally proud, passes through the solid stones of a hard and difficult negotiation with our partners at European level, but also passes through our determination to collide with the pathogens and malfunctions here, within the country, with a regime of political and economic power that has plunged our country into crisis and international defiance. The course of our country's reconstruction and recovery will be long. Based on the unstable forces of a united and sovereign people, we will make the vision a reality. With the constant confidence and support of our people, we will build a economically self-powered, independent and sovereign, equal partner in the European Union and in the Eurozone. With an independent multi-dimensional and active foreign policy, we will take advantage of the unstable geopolitical potential of our country in order to defend the peace, stability and the unnecessarily application of international law in our fragile region. And all of this will be done, because we have a realistic plan, we have a strategic negotiating process, but above all because we have only one commitment. To serve the interests of our people, to serve the national interest. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I present the programme statements in detail and ask for Parliament's vote of confidence in our Government, I feel the need to reassure once again from this step the Greek MPs and all the Greek citizens that the irrevocable decision of the Government is to honour and implement our election plans as a whole, with full respect for the popular will, as expressed by the vote of our people in recent elections. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This commitment is the unnegotiable core of our policy on all matters directly affecting all Greek citizens, inclusive and exceptions. For me personally and for every member of the government, this commitment is a matter of honor, credibility and respect for democracy. In the last few days we have received the confidence of the Greek citizens, regardless of their choice in the last elections, and we see the return of hope, optimism, dignity and pride. We feel their expectation of progress and social justice. It is therefore our democratic obligation, but also our duty, not to disprove them, not to disappoint them. After five years of memorial barbarism, our people can't stand any more frustration, they can't afford another cancellation, and that's why he made a brave choice in these elections. It was not terrorized, it did not succumb to the threats and propaganda of fear, because it knew that those who threatened it had led the country and the people to a full economic, political and moral deadlock. This deadlock will strive to overthrow both internally and abroad, by immediately restoring the functioning of democracy and, above all, the functioning of Parliament, which was effectively abolished through ongoing legislative acts. We will fight to restore respect and respect for the Greek Constitution and to regain the founding principles and values of united Europe, Europe of solidarity, social cohesion, development and democracy. I am sure that our Government, along with those who support our efforts in a context of national understanding, with the sole aim of social salvation, will remain in collective memory, as the government that kept its word and represented honestly, unequivocally, without the backing of all Greek women and Greeks separately, in whose name and at whose command I am before you today. Ladies and gentlemen, the landscape in Greece and Europe remains difficult but it is already different. The agenda's changing. Greece remains at the centre of international interest, but for the first time after many years with a positive sign, as a protagonist, not as a compass. In a negotiation that finally started, the Hellenic Republic, Greece, is making proposals, does not accept orders and even by e-mail. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We know very well that this negotiation will not be easy, that the path we have before us is uphill, but we have faith in our powers and we will be able to do it, especially because in this negotiation, we have a lot of misery on our part. With the responsibility of both previous governments and our partners, a programme of austerity was imposed on the Greek people, which we knew with mathematical accuracy would lead not to a transient recession but to a long-term damage to the country's development potential and an unprecedented decline in the Greek economy, as it was. After five, almost years of extreme austerity, we lost about 1/4 of the national product. Over a million and a half of our fellow citizens have lost their jobs, and more than two and a half million have been forced to live below the official limits of poverty. At the same time, public debt was ejected from 124% of gross domestic product to 180%. While the productive base of our economy has been dismantled, there has been an unprecedented disinvestment and internal devaluation process, which has created an explosive mixture of recession and deflation, which has made it extremely difficult for any prospect of recovery. The accident, however, is not only that the previous government has accepted the application of a mix of policy, which, with mathematical accuracy, would lead the economy and society on the rocks. The accident is that the outgoing government has taken care of leaving, burning up the seeds and tearing down the bridges. It has made sure that, with its own responsibility, it create suffocating negotiating frameworks for the new government in order to force the country back into adventures and deep memorials. And that is what I am telling you now, given that, in my contacts with the officials of the European Commission, I was informed that the initial choice of our partners was the six-month technical extension of the programme and the Greek perseverance, the time limit was set on 28 February. So it is now revealed to all of us who was and who remains the objective of the previous Memorandum and the Memorandum Forces in our country. It was and remains the suffocating time limits, the extortion of Greece and, ultimately, the failure of the new Greek government, that is, - be careful - the failure of Greece to justify themselves. What they forgot to account for, however, this fantasy of little parenthesis in the memorandum is that there are not only technocrats in this negotiation. There is also an important factor, the people, the Greek people and the people of Europe who will not allow such a development! [[Vibrant applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Already, citizens in Greece and other European countries have been mobilised, are taking solidarity and solidarity initiatives. We thank them and invite them to remain vigilant. Their solidarity and support are valuable. Only by supporting them will we be able to manage the deadlock to which the Memorandums led us. Only with their support will we succeed in getting Greece and Europe out of the vicious circle of austerity, recession and deflation. Because our strategy is not only about Greece. It concerns the peoples of all European countries. Because the problem is not only Greek. It was never only Greek. The crisis is not just Greek. The crisis is European and the solution will therefore also be European. Greece can be a positive catalyst of developments in this tough and persistent negotiation with a goal: To reach a mutually beneficial solution for both Greece and our partners. Repeat on all tones: Greece wants to serve its debt. If our partners so wish, they are invited to come to the dialogue table, to decide together on how and the techniques that will make it sustainable. The picture of a debt that exceeded 180% of GDP yesterday does not allow it to be served. That's what we're trying to explain. The problem of Greek debt is not a technical problem. It is not a matter of technical implementation of decision data. It is a political problem and a political choice. As the partners insist on austerity, the debt problem will recycle and deteriorate. If we agree, then, that austerity is disastrous, the technical solution for write-down and repayment of debt will be found through negotiations and consents. We are not aiming to threaten any balance in Europe. On the contrary, we are the ones who want to restore balance in Europe. We are hopeful of the major and necessary changes that need to be discussed and carried out in Europe. The new Government of Social Rescue wishes, seeks and works to combine the institutional and budgetary obligations arising from our country's participation in the Eurozone with full respect for the principle of popular sovereignty. Respect for the budgetary objectives of the Stability and Growth Pact is indeed a European obligation of the country. But austerity is not. 'Solidarity and equitable cooperation between the Member States' shall be laid down in the Treaties of the European Union. Conditions don't write austerity and memoirs. The fundamental principle of United Europe is respect for the democratically expressed will of its peoples. That is why we are clear in all directions what it is that we are not negotiating. We do not negotiate our national sovereignty, we do not negotiate popular sovereignty, we do not negotiate the popular mandate of the elections of 25 January! [[Vibrant applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The Greek people gave a strong and clear mandate to immediately end the destructive austerity and to change politics. The notorious Memorandum has therefore been abolished first of all by its own failure and its disastrous effects. Secondly and more importantly than the verdict of the Greek people. That is why the new government, ladies and gentlemen, is not entitled to request an extension of the memorandum because it is not entitled to request an extension of error and disaster. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Nor can the new Greek Government, in the name of technical difficulties, be asked today to extend a programme which was recently deplored a few days ago by the Greek people. In fact, this should only be demanded in order to serve the regular manoeuvre and the micropolitical purposes of political forces within the country. What the Greek Government is seeking in the negotiations with partners is a new agreement on a 'bridge' programme, as we call it, until June, so that we have the financial area that requires a genuine negotiation on the restructuring of the debt, which is necessary, and a new programme for cooperation and development between Greece and the European partners. But many of them say: 'Is that possible in the next fifteen days?' The contacts I had with the European Union's institutional actors have convinced me that, despite the difficulties, it is possible. Of course, there may be a number of issues that may require negotiating time, such as, for example, the debt issue. Most of the issues are, however, absolutely ready, with an integrated programme and proposals to agree on them tomorrow morning, if there is a mood. The Greek Government has a plan ready - it does not make it now - it has proposals - it does not make them now - it is realistic and is capable of creating a framework of mutually acceptable agreement. The new contract between Greece and Europe, which will be reflected in a medium-term programme for national reconstruction, will respect the rules of operation of the Eurozone, but will not condemn the Greek economy in an eternal recession with predictions of absurd and unrealistic primary surpluses, which are the other name of austerity. I would like to assure the National Representation and the Greek people that we are firmly and unequivocally pursuing the sustainable agreement with the partners. I would even like to assure you that I hope that we will achieve this. Because this agreement will at the same time be the signal that Europe remains committed to its democratic principles and traditions, to respect for democracy and popular will. Europe must not make the mistakes of the dark past again. It will not lead a people to humiliation and humiliation. First and foremost, because Europe must not relive the era of monsters, so that hatred between peoples is not resurrected, but that understanding and solidarity between the peoples. This is the bet of a united Europe today. Ladies and gentlemen, the timetable that we are proposing to our partners is what defines the framework of our own political interventions, the interventions that are in line with the need to ensure budgetary equilibrium and the balanced budget, but they are at the same time facing social catastrophe and putting an end to the austerity and humanitarian crisis. The achievement of balanced budgets, you know, is not a matter of our commitments to the partners, but of our economic self-reliance and therefore of our national sovereignty. It is the prerequisite for a strong negotiating position in the country and, ultimately, for a positive outcome to the negotiation. The reason is simple: the less you miss them, the more independent you are, the more durable you are in pressure. That is why our programme has been designed in conditions of budgetary equilibrium, but something that - we all know - also requires the patriotic sense of responsibility of each and every Greek, every Greek and every Greek, which we call on them at this difficult time to put back on the national effort. Our government's first priority, since Wednesday morning, will be to deal with the great wounds of the memorandum, to tackle the humanitarian crisis in our country, as we promised in the run-up to the election. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] These measures will concern the provision of free feeding, power, shelter and health care to the thousands of families and households who have been victims of the hardest barbarism, the memorial barbarism over the past five years. And you know, this is a matter of equality and culture. Greece cannot be a European country, when it has thousands of people hungry, without electricity. However, the measures will also concern the restoration of major injustices. We therefore proceed directly to the restoration of the anti-constitutional sacked by the public sector, the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, the school guards and the administrative staff of the HEIs. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Rehabilitation will not be a burden on the State budget as it will take place in the recruitments already provided for in the current budget for 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, within the first five months of negotiating with Europe, we have a great bet before us, to justify the expectations of the Greek people for a radical state reform. And that is not a question of our commitments to third parties, it is our choice. Because without this radical reform, even with the best possible agreement on the debt, the deadlock will return. What the Greek people gave us is a clear command to fight, to fight the paths of the Greek political system, to fight against and to the interests built by these paths and this state. Because we are not the ones who have built and managed this state of customer relations and waste, and that is why - I am not pointing out - we are the only ones who can really change it, implement the biggest institutional reconstruction in the country's modern history. This institutional reconstruction has already started with the major change in the structure of the government, which was the first step towards the necessary rationalisation of the public administration. The first phase of this reform will be completed within six months by the processing of joint and cohesive bodies from the only ten ministries. Our aim is to better finalise, coordinate the services, rapidly handling decisions and social recompense. At the same time, we are also moving towards a decisive reduction in the waste in the public sector and the restriction of privileged ministers and MPs. Because we are not here to understand the structures of power and the privileges of power. We have come to abolish privileges and pass the power where it comes from, that is to say to the Greek people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So we are directly dismantling public administration from the armies of ministers and posters of ministers. We're removing waste provocative. We are reducing by almost half the fleet of some seven hundred cars in the ministries. We are instructing to sell government cars costing more than EUR 700,000, when the average Greek citizen is suffering. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We order first to sell one of the three government aircraft, because the example of a mere life must start from us, from the government itself. In the same direction, I will ask the President of Parliament - I know, I may be sad at some - to rethink and abolish the privilege of the car in this Parliament, because I do not believe that our Members lack the financial capacity to travel at their own expense. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are determined to impose a new style and a morality. And this has to start from the top. The first example of the new concept is the reduction of the staff of the Grand Maximus by 30% and the reduction of the security guard, the police guard, the Prime Minister by 40%. In the same direction the entire Ministerial Council will move, not only for symbolic reasons - because symbolism has their meaning - but also for essential reasons. Because the policeman has to leave the political offices and go to the neighborhood where the citizen needs him to be safe. He needs his permanent presence. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The new government will show full confidence in civil servants, regardless of their political beliefs, who in adverse circumstances are trying to serve citizens and businesses. And this confidence will be reflected in practice by the abolition of the vengeful commemorative arrangements for the disciplinary law of civil servants and its replacement by a modern and effective grid of arrangements respecting the presumption of innocence, but at the same time it will effectively protect the public and society from the jurors. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We insist that the social recompense of the public administration and the support of its social services is our maximum political duty. We are directly promoting regulation for the evaluation of civil servants on objective and merital criteria and, at the same time, changing the system of selecting heads, cutting the Gordian link between political parties and state mechanisms. Finally, we move on to measures to simplify the procedures of public administration, to make use of the possibilities of new technologies, to limit the physical contact between the administration and the citizens of small corruption and, at the same time, to achieve the best possible service for the citizens. At the completion of the new agencies of the Ministries, no public service will ask for certificates from citizens or businesses certifying information or data already held by another public service. So we believe that bureaucracy will be resolutely restricted and endogenous incentives will be given to the public administration to proceed with the electronic interconnection of its services and the necessary computerisation. In the context of the radical administrative reform, there is a central role to play in every way in supporting self-government. In this context, we are creating a new institutional framework through the radical revision of the 'CALCERATO'. We shall immediately begin the procedures for wide-ranging consultation, with interventions throughout the range of responsibilities and structure, until the new legislative framework is completed. Ladies and gentlemen, our real great struggle, the truly indecisive battle that this government is ready to give at all costs, is the battle against high-corruption, against this system of interoperable political and economic power, which has been oppressing our country for years, a system that poisoned public life, has denounced the political system and the institutions. But of course there is a great battle against tax evasion, the tax evasion which was the real reason why our country reached the edge of the cliff. You already know that we have created a special portfolio for the operational coordination of the services and control mechanisms that will organise our strategy in this undeclared war. We know that we are putting the cubit up, but we are not allowed to do anything less than that. In this context, firstly, we are directly mobilising the House of Appeal for Economic Crime in order to control the lists of grand depositors, the list of the principle of combating money laundering, the notorious list of Lagard, the Liechtenstein list. Secondly, we are recommending a Customs Internal Audit Service and we are mobilising all the competent agencies and bodies to combat the smuggling of tobacco and oil, which leads to an annual loss of revenue of the Greek State, according to valid estimates, greater than EUR 1 billion a year and a half a year. Thirdly, we are adopting the most modern practices for the identification of duty-free matter derived from triangular and intra-group transactions. Fourthly, we are mobilising the Public Administration Inspectors' Inspection Body to monitor the legality of public procurement and public procurement suppliers, to finally put an end to overpricing and mediation. Fifthly, we put an end to the sea loans that are usually used to serve dark purposes and maintain an oligarchal regime. Ladies and gentlemen, the new government guarantees that justice will be done in this place. We are not at point zero, we are not deleting the sinful past, we are not giving forgiveness to anyone. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are directly abolishing the anti-constitutional provisions which provide immunity to the boards of the GOI and the Financial Stability Fund and the Bank of Greece. All Greek citizens are equal before the law and the officials of the state mechanism, the official elite, are not excluded, cannot be excluded from this principle. We are also moving on to a promise made by others, but they have never implemented it, to set up a committee of inquiry on how we got here, a committee of inquiry on the memorandums, to clarify all aspects. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Not to avenge our political opponents, but political responsibilities for the people, but to investigate fairly and calmly if there are wider responsibilities and to be attributed where they need to be attributed. We are also launching the process of controlling public procurement for which there is evidence of failures of any kind, with a view to satisfying the Greek public. Public money does not exist to serve the interests of the oligarchs, but to strengthen growth, reduce unemployment and raise the standard of living of the Greek people. Break the most famous "three-dimensional triangle" between banks, a political system and a median establishment. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We guarantee the universal access of the Greek people to the good of objective and autonomous political information. We legally reconstitute the Greek Radio - Television on a zero basis, using exclusively resources from the reward fee. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Thus, we are building up a strong and competitive public service broadcasting that will enhance the promotion of the country abroad, which will broaden the opportunities for all citizens to participate in cultural goods, without re-changing, without the manipulations and waste of the past, without scandalous contracts, without a caste of privileges, without provoking rewards. We will restore a huge injustice, a crime against the Greek people and the democracy that took place on 11 June 2013, on the day of shame, on the day of black on our screens. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are directly applying the institutional framework for the control of broadcasting stations and other media. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We put an end to the donation loans that are usually granted in terms that are opaque and we proceed to a tender notice for open, transparent and in line with the existing lending laws for all broadcasters in our home country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-08-S1-commons.u4	Authorisation and not lending.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-08-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, authorization. To be written in the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the institutional reconstruction that we are promoting has a central motto: 'Democracy everywhere'. Not only did the memorials lead to the disrespect of the political system, they mainly undermined democracy itself. The state was transformed from a citizen's aid to a persecutor of the weakest, most excluded, victims of this crisis. We shall return and deepen to every democratic institution, every social acquis. We support and protect individual rights and civil liberties, the social rule of law. We are introducing a new doctrine for security, freedoms, rights, police-citizen relations. The police won't have the role of suppressing popular mobilisation. The police will guarantee the protection of the citizen from crime. The police will guarantee the security of the citizens. In this context, we are reintroducing the institution of the 'Police Police neighbourhood'. We are upgrading and modernising the training of police officers, status and their working conditions. We change the structure and title of the National Intelligence Service. It is renamed to the National Rule Service with sole responsibility for foreign security and not internal security, which follows from special civil protection services. With the new government for the first time in the country a simple Immigration Directorate is converted into a Ministry, a portfolio, as in all the countries of Europe. Immigration is for the first time becoming what should be in a rule of law, i.e. a question of overall management with a single strategy by the relevant Ministry of Education which supervises the relevant portfolio. Our aim is a single policy on these serious issues with a view to integration, protection, respect for human rights and strengthening social cohesion. The primary role of the new portfolio is to directly pass a law on citizenship for the second generation of children. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The lack of legal regulation for these children for two years has excluded from the procedures for granting citizenship the most integrated part of immigrants, that is, those children who have linked their lives and education to our country, these children who have not learned another language, have not learned another homeland and have learned only the Greek education. The issue of migration flows, of course, is not only about Greece. It is a universal and European issue, and that is why national solutions are not only acceptable. It is urgently urgent for European coordination, which, unfortunately, is still a matter. It is urgently necessary to promote a European immigration and asylum policy based on respect for human rights, but also on taking and sharing responsibility from all the states of the European Union by energising immediate solidarity measures in the host countries. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no institutional and productive reconstruction without a great and brave reform of the tax system. Reduced tax revenues in the 1990s and 2000s were the main reason for the country's inability to reduce its foreign debt. Even during the period when the Greek economy was running with growth adjustment of 4%, our debt remained nailed to 100% of GDP, i.e. in absolute numbers it was growing. And the responsibility for this was, of course, not for the employees and the retired, mainly for the economic elite and the upper strata of the free professionals who have never lifted the burdens on them. The period of crisis and the memorial deepened this tax inequality in an unprecedented way and depleted the 'usually suspicious' by increasing both direct and indirect taxation. Tax justice is, unfortunately, an unknown word for our country, and the constitutional requirement for a proportionate tax burden is still an empty letter. The new government is also committed here to putting an end to this economic and social irrationality, irrationality and injustice. Every citizen and every business will contribute to the common burdens according to its capacity to pay, as the Constitution explicitly imposes. We are committed to elaborating and adopting a stable, simple and fair tax system, which will evenly allocate burdens and at the same time create a sense of security that is necessary for long-term strategic investment. In particular, we are introducing a uniform and progressive tax scale, without exceptions and asterisks, by shifting weight to high and very high incomes. We're setting the tax-free limit at 12. EUR 000. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are going to record the properties in Greece and abroad through the enclosure that will give a clear picture of the portability of citizens and businesses. We've been abolishing HNVIA since 2015 and we've been replacing it with Great Property Tax. But I want to be clear here. I call on all citizens, in the present circumstances and given the suffocating pressures we have, to respond to the national effort and to pay the last instalments corresponding to the 2014 tax. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In 2015, however, there will be no ENVIRONMENT. And that's a commitment. We are strengthening the control mechanisms by investing in the continuing training of staff and the upgrading of information structures. We take strict measures to control the tax administration and impose severe penalties on those who violate their duty. We are putting an end to the industry of splendid amendments and exceptions. Any change in tax law will now be codified directly, under the responsibility of the competent authorities. The major reform of the tax system is one of the unconditional preconditions for the growth needed by the Greek economy, but also for the relief of employees, pensioners and small and medium-sized enterprises. But that takes time. But the relaunching of the economy and the relief of the victims of the crisis is an issue that we must address immediately, without delay, without oligopoly, without doubt. The same direct effect is the need to strengthen public revenues. The overdue public debts of private individuals touch the sum of EUR 72,000,000,000 from EUR 300,000,000,000, which was about 2009. This is a bleeding that creates insurmountable difficulties and undermines our negotiating power, the independence of the country, and at the same time demonstrates the enormous failure of the memoranda. For this reason, we are moving directly to measures to regulate late payment in public and insurance funds. We are setting the hundreds of doses to facilitate payment of due, without bureaucratic conditions and slow procedures. We are immediately abolishing the regulation that unconstitutionally converts the offence of non-payment of debts to the public in a continuous manner, in order to stop this humiliation of prisoners every day. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The law will be implemented, but with all procedural guarantees protecting patented rights. We are reintroducing all procedural safeguards against the forced execution of citizens' property and we are stopping the emergency regime imposed by the Memorandumian Governments against small and medium-sized incomes. Because democracy and rights are not à la carte, they cannot be restricted, and they cannot be amputated. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of institutional reconstruction and economic relaunching, it is a central role to rebuild the framework for the protection of work and restore the rights of workers. In the five years of the memorandum they strengthened and deepened the current trend towards deregulation of the labour market, creating working-age conditions for almost all wage-earners. This was one of the main objectives of the Memorandum, which was rejected by the verdict of the Greek people. It was, however, also an interference that took place beyond and outside the objectives of the Memorandum by domestic forces to serve to increase their own profitability on the back of our country's workers. The new Greek Government is determined to put an end to the policies that allow employers to be impoverished, the extreme exploitation, the degrading of workers, who in recent years have seen their wages cut, their rights to be depleted, the lives to be destroyed, in the name of a policy that it considers that the competitiveness of the economy depends on the level of wages and the degree of deregulation of the labour market. We reject this concept. The competitiveness of the Greek economy cannot rely on cheap and unqualified work, but only on innovation, high technology and the quality of goods and services. On this basis, we are committed to promoting in close cooperation with the International Labour Organisation, ILO, the immediate restoration of free collective bargaining, the reintroduction of the expansion of collective agreements and three years, the establishment of a strict framework for protection against mass redundancies, the reintroduction of the institution of arbitration. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Our aim is to strengthen workers' negotiating power and to reverse the neoliberal course of depreciation of the world of work. At this point we remain unreserved. However, we also remain unresolved on the issue of the separation of workers on the basis of age criteria. Discrimination and divisions at the expense of young people under the age of twenty - five, who train the new generation of workers in subsistence, with the Government of Social Rescue, are ending. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] There will be an absolute equalisation of all workers, as the logic, morality and values of the world of work require. 'Equal pay for equal work' is our principle and we will remain faithful to this principle. The same believers will remain in our commitment to raise the minimum wage to EUR 751. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This increase, however, will gradually take place by 2016 to ensure the harmonious adaptation of the real economy and at the same time to adapt the social partners, whose agreement we will pursue in the process followed. Immediately, the specific recovery programme of work starts with the reorientation of the Ministry of Labour's funds so that hundreds of thousands of new jobs will be created in the private, public and social sectors of the economy. This programme is a radical policy that proves in practice the turn of the new government. We leave behind a concept that wants growth to be based on deregulation of work and we adopt the concept of growth based on employment, based on strengthening employment. The new job recovery programme, not only will immediately reduce unemployment, but will also give the insurance funds a breath, promote the Greek economy and strengthen the position of the workers as a whole. Acceleration and extension of the programme will, of course, take place following the conclusion of the agreement with the European partners. This agreement also seeks to allow the use of resources from the development package, the so-called Juncker package, first and foremost for work recovery. This priority is also shared by our European partners, as they know well that the predicament of unemployment is a time bomb, not only in Greece, but also in the foundations of our common European home. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this is the framework within which the national plan for the productive reconstruction of our country must move. Support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the protection of workers, respect for the protection of the environment, sweeping reforms in public administration, stable tax system and decisive fight against corruption, interlocutory and smuggling of public money are the principles on which we should build up and build up our new effort. None of them, however, will be enough if the Greek economy continues to drown in the size of a non-viable debt, in the size of overcompensation, but at the same time also the obligation for irrational and impractical, unreasonable primary surpluses that leave no financial margin for breath and development in the Greek economy. It is precisely for this reason that the negotiation with our European partners must reach an agreement on debt write-down. It is precisely what a new social contract with Europe is of paramount importance. Without this new agreement, the country will be doomed to sink into the hymnical string, the trap of deflation, the deinvestment that we have lived through all these years and poverty. The Memorandum has failed. There is no longer anyone who is seriously claiming the opposite. What we need now is an agreement that will unleash the dynamics of the Greek economy and help implement pluralist economic actions in the field of energy, tourism, shipping, agricultural production, industry, processing and communications. These actions will combine the small, medium and large private initiative as well as the incentives for foreign investments and transnational agreements for development partnerships with the participation of the Greek public in the framework of respect for European rules, with a strong public investment programme which, in our view, must not be based on the deficit, as is the case with the French and Italian partners and, lastly, with the forms of Greek economy and cooperation which will build a new model of economic activity, based on the networks and the horizontal organisation in excess of the narrow framework of competition from the free market. In particular, with regard to private initiative and investment, I would like to make it clear: the new government wants and will support private investment that can play a key role in our country's process of productive reconstruction. What the new Greek Government is not going to do is to continue this crime of extinguishing the property of public wealth in order to finance an unsustainable debt or to cover current financial needs. Several crimes have been committed at the expense of the public interest! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In this context we commit that we do not grant, we do not sell out the networks and infrastructure of our country that are our national capital. We are not selling out our natural and mineral wealth, because, furthermore, the use of national capital and the property of public property and the sale. In this perspective, any proposal to make use of public property will be examined in particular and promoted, to the extent that there are guarantees of respect for labour and environmental legislation as well as for an operational plan, which demonstrates that it will work in favour of and not against the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to develop the planned actions, it is necessary to redesign the operation of the banking system and to set up a development bank supporting innovative and development initiatives. In the context of the resolution and reconstruction of the banking system, well-designed and well-thought out interventions are necessary. In particular, it is necessary to amend the Financial Stability Fund law so that the public can exercise without restrictions its rights to systemic banks - which, moreover, have been recapitalised with the Greek people's money - while, of course, always taking into account the rights of private shareholders. It is also necessary to change the operating model so that banks undertake to fulfil quantitative and qualitative objectives. We want banks to serve the economy, growth, investment and not interests. This, after all, is their social role. Especially in our country's case, banks can play an important role in dealing with corruption, interlocutory, tax evasion, tax evasion, illegal transactions. We also consider it necessary to set up an intermediary for the management of red and business loans, which on the one hand will protect overcompensated households and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and, on the other, will ensure that bank balances are not charged. Until the adoption of the legislation and the adoption of the ministerial decisions necessary for the implementation of the red loan regulation measures, no first-resident auction is allowed! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It is also prohibited to transfer mortgage loans without the assent of the debtor to unrecognised banking institutions, to Greek or foreign speculators. Ladies and gentlemen, the memorial policy of the last five years has been based on the logic of horizontal cuts. The second victim after wages was the social state. In the last five years the institutions of social security, the National Health System, Welfare and Education and Cultural Institutions have been demolished. The new government brings with it a new conception of the role of the social state, which must balance the disparities that the free market creates. The social state is not just the institution that protects those who exclude the free market, but it also guarantees conditions of prosperity and dignity for the whole population. Its function is by definition balanced. That is why the new government attaches enormous importance to supporting and extending the social state. Our first priority in this area is the rescue of the social security system, which received a huge blow, especially after the catastrophic PSI, which intended to rescue the banks, by charging the weight of the haircut of the Greek bonds to the Greek insurance funds. This case will be investigated in depth, cleared up and accounted for - to have no doubt - responsibility. However, the allocation of responsibilities cannot save social security. Only targeted and well-designed interventions can achieve this objective. Our government's first commitment is that we are not going to implement what was promised by the famous e-mail, the former Minister of Finance and the former Prime Minister to the partners and the troika. So there is no increase in age limits, no reduction in main and supplementary pensions! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We maintain the public, redistributive, universal nature of social security, with respect for the statutory pension rights. The first measure to support low-pension pensioners is to re-evaluate a third pension as a Christmas gift at the end of 2015 to those receiving pensions below EUR 700 a month. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] These commitments do not mean that we are overlooking the extremely critical and difficult situation that, under the responsibility of all the previous governments, faces the social security system in our country. Unfortunately, its funding depends on state injections. And that is a constant threat to its sustainability. That is why we are establishing a Fund for National Riches and Social Security, in which revenues will be transferred from the use of natural and mineral wealth, from the use of public property. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] From this fund we aim to strengthen looted reserves of the insurance funds, namely, to ensure solidarity between generations and within generations. That's the difference of perception. We want to make use of public property, to support insurance funds, and others want to sell out to pay off a debt that is not repaid if we continue to do so all over the world! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We know that we have a difficult equation before us, but we are determined for reasons of national dignity to solve it. The same is true of health issues, as the Memorandumary Reforms there have evolved into a real health tragedy. Our primary task is on the one hand to heal the wounds that have caused the body of society, the policy of monuments, so that the institutional and operational exclusion of the majority of citizens from access to health can no longer exist and, on the other, to implement a plan to eradicate the long-term diseases of the health system. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Day after day, month after month, we will build a public, free, quality health system for all citizens of the country with tools to halt the flow of public resources to the private sector, to substantially support health structures in human resources and logistics and to democratic restructuring of the administration of the system. The priority is, however, to combat corruption in supplies of pharmaceutical and health material. In the field of education our objectives are equivalent: equilibrium, universal access, a high level of education. Education must play a central role in the great national effort to reconstruct the country. This is one of the competitive advantages of our country, despite the fact that both primary and secondary education and higher education have suffered enormous damage over the past period. The new government will launch a major and substantial dialogue on the change in the entire institutional framework of all three levels, which is deeply affected. And it will do that in four years' time. Nothing in the field of education is going to be done with surprises and surprises, but with dialogue and consent. However, we will immediately abolish the selection of the issues of the promotional examinations by 50% from the notorious bank of topics. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] As far as higher education is concerned, the provisions concerning institutions councils are abolished, as this institution has spectacularly failed and violated the constitutional requirements of the university self-government. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We pay particular attention to the promotion of research. That is why a competent Deputy Minister for Research and Innovation was appointed. Scientific research and innovation play a key role in the great effort to social and productive reconstruction. The resources spent in this direction do not constitute expenditure, but a long-term investment. The aim of the government is therefore not only to change the institutional framework, which will guarantee the independent operation of researchers and research centres, but to draw up a long-term plan to return to the country by thousands of young people and young people, this important part of the Greek society, the most dynamic part, young researchers, young people with the many degrees who left the country and are currently employed in universities and research centres abroad. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, the recovery of the dignity of the country and the people also requires the establishment of an active and multidimensional foreign policy with the following objectives: Firstly, it actively defends the interests of the Greek people and the territorial integrity, sovereignty and sovereign rights of our country at bilateral level, but also in all the international organisations in which our country participates. Secondly, to promote the peaceful resolution of disputes on the basis of international law and the building of confidence with our neighbouring countries. In this context, it is particularly important that the Government should commit itself to supporting bi-communal talks to resolve the Cyprus problem on the basis of the United Nations' decisions, reunification of Cyprus in the form of a bi-zonal and bi-communal federation with one sovereignty, a citizenship, an international personality. On this point, let me point out and welcome the solidarity of the Cypriot Government with the new Greek Government, the battle that we will give and the tough negotiation in the next few days. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It is also important to find, in the context of talks under the United Nations, a mutually acceptable solution to the dispute for name with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on the basis of a complex name, by geographical determination for all uses. Thirdly, our foreign policy will aim to highlight Greece's regional role as a pole of peace and stability in a triangle of great instability. Greece and Cyprus have been an area of stability in a triangle of instability in the wider region - covered north of the Ukraine crisis, south-east of the Syrian crisis, south-west of the crisis in recent years in North Africa - away from cold warfare, far from deadlocked trade wars and supposedly humanitarian interventions - which have demonstrated their failure - and firmly defending international law, the UN decisions to build an integrated and sustainable European security architecture, particularly at a time when the destructive phenomenon of jichanging is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing the Programmatic Declarations, I could not omit a moral obligation not only to our people, but also to all the peoples of Europe who fought and gave their blood against fascism. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Historical obligation of the new Greek Government is to claim the loan and the corrections. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It's our debt to history. A central role in this claim will be played by the new Greek Government, as well as by the national resistance, Manolis Glezos, who has been struggling for so many years in order to fulfil this national debt. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I am sure that we will also have the assistance of the Greek Parliament and of all the wings - not all of them - of the constitutional arch. Ladies and gentlemen, the wind of a new unity of our people has taken away the seeds of a new division, to which, unfortunately, some have thought to invest. At this point, let me thank the President of the Independent Greeks for his unbelievable perseverance and determination in the form and course of the Government of Social Rescue. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, I would also like to call on all political forces separately, in particular every Member and parliamentarian, even beyond the government majority, even those who will vote against our Programming Declarations, to call on each and every one of you individually to support the national effort, to support the negotiation, to support our country, Greece, at this critical moment. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are not asking for a consensus on the disaster, as other governments have previously called for. We are calling for a consensus on redemption, salvation, prosperance, progress, consensus on re-establishing our homeland with dignity in Europe. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We live moments of judgment and history. In the sensational developments of the last few days, the Greek people signed the seal. He didn't assign responsibility, he testified soul. He didn't authorize anyone. He took luck in his hands. He did not vote against. He honored the previous generations, who resisted and resurrected this place, and saved hope for the generations that come. He didn't just defy extortion and ultimatum. He uprooted his resurrection, proclaimed pride and dignity. This people deserve only respect. He deserves to walk proud. He deserves to live with dignity. The current government can simply be the voice of this people. In honor, in the history and culture that this people carry in their luggage, we alone will and nothing more can be. That is why we categorically state that we are not going to negotiate our history. We are not going to negotiate the pride and dignity of this people. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] These are for us sacred and unnegotiable values. We are flesh from the flesh of the people. We come through the pages of the history of this people, and that is why we will serve him to the end. We are every word from this country's constitution. In this Constitution we have sworn, this Constitution will serve. And we will serve it to the end, justifying the visions, values, struggles, sacrifices of the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-08-S1-commons.u6	Go on! Go on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-08-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to give the Government of Social Rescue a vote of confidence. I call upon you together to fight this battle for our country, for the future of the next generations, for this battle to regain hope and dignity, for its lost dignity. We're going to fight this fight together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-08-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, following the completion of the development of the Government's Programmatic Declarations by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, I would ask you to consent to the conclusion of the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-08-S1-commons.u9	With the consent of the House at 21.08 the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, Monday, 9 February 2015, at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, the debate on the government's programming statements, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
