ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 26 June 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 358/16-6-2015 of the Greek Parliamentary Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the extension of the statement of the professional farmer in application of the n. Date of birth: (a) 4254/2014. (b) 4254/2014. (c) 4254/2014. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 351/15-6-2015 by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis about the fire in Aspropyrgos, Member of Parliament, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the fire in the recycling plant in Aspropyrgos. 3. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgiou Galeos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy about the risk of excluding farmers from the Community of Agios Dimitrios Argolis from the right to compensation. 4. The 339/11-6-2015 topical question of the President of the Republic of Potamio, Panagiotis Karkasoulis, to the Minister of State for the fight against corruption, concerning the results of the Government's actions to combat corruption. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 352/15-6-2015 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the heating oil allowance. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 344/12-6-2015 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the changes in the management of waste. 3. The Question No 347/15-6-2015 by the Deputy Minister of Attica of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the enormous omissions of the factory's fire in Aspropyrgos. 4. The question by No. 293/2-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties. 5. The Question No 334/9-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on compensation for farmers in Elias for damages suffered by their crops from the intense weather phenomena. 6. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning the recourse to the justice of television stations for decisions of the Minister of State, on the basis of which they were charged with retroactive frequency charges. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning ‘the fines that Greek taxpayers and farmers have to pay for the mismanagement of previous years in relation to European and state agricultural aid’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Services have rounded up the topical questions, so that they can be made easier, and no matter what the order is, we will begin with the eighth number 218/14-5-2015 topical question of the second cycle of MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of National Defence, on the degradation and devaluation of the institution of the National Guard. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Constantine, quiet, who is present and we welcome him. Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Can I now say, of course, that a timely question can be discussed a month and a half later? Anyway, the issue is topical, whenever it comes to the debate. Minister, the institution of the National Guard is fundamental for the proper and effective functioning and organisation of the defence of our country and especially of the border regions. Unfortunately, in recent years - and when I say in recent years I do not mean the years of the memorandum, I mean the last ten to fifteen years - there has been a more general demilitarisation of military units in northern Greece and of the national guard forces - some of the units, some of them prisoners - and, as a result of Serres up to Kastoria, Florina, there is not even a National Guard Prison at the moment, which, at the least, could be a checkpoint, at least at our borders. What do you intend to do about it? Do you intend to continue decommissioning the institution of the National Guard, as your predecessors did, by highlighting the need to save money? Will the National Guard be strengthened so that it becomes a worthy and effective part of the country's defence operation again? What action will you take to achieve this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, because you have not even exhausted the two-minute period. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u4	Good morning and thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, your question about the National Guard does not mean that it does not matter. However, it is of particular value for us to refer to the historic'vetalia' over the last decades, because this institution has not been and is not what it was and cannot be what it was at that time. The National Guard is an institution of the Armed Forces and to be precise it is the Armed Forces of the Missile Army, numbering already thirty years of existence. It has been actively involved in the defence and defence of the territorial integrity of the country, with a major institutional change under Law 1295/1982, which introduced dissolution and dismantling - I must say here, fundamentally - of the National Defence Orders, which was a remnant of our country's remnant period, which our people so expensively paid. These were then throughout the entire Greek territory and not as they are today in the border regions and in particular in the islands of the eastern Aegean and in Evros and were responsible for men of the dositic and extreme right-wing organizations, while their main concern was the consolidation of the civil climate and the terrorism of the Greek people. With the above law, which was a law of postmulsion, we passed into another phase. But to get in fact, I would like to tell you that today is the operational role, both in the continental area and in the islands I mentioned before, and has specific missions and specific tasks. It's not what he had twenty and thirty years ago. They're absolved of formations, they're always charming and they're involved in all the processes we have to deal with in the Armed Forces when we have natural disasters. The last case of overcrowding in Evros this year in winter and also in Lake Kerkin is an important event in which all these people unselfishly worked alongside the Army and other citizens in order to cope with these natural disasters. So our goal is to enrich, renew and modernise the educational object. As you mentioned in the penitentiary, we in particular have manned sufficiently with units of the Eighth Division in Epirus and other regions, and, of course, the numerical movement has taken place in those border areas that we consider to be also biopolitical but also essential that this should be the main force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I do not know whether Mr Kammenos agrees with what you have said about what was once the National Guard and what is now. I was even confused because I asked you about the National Guard and not about the Army. We agree that its role needs to be changed. Let him be the one you said. The role of the Army or the National Guard cannot be at the bottom of the centuries. We agree with that. Of course, I understand that there is an economic problem, but at some point this economic problem can be solved. But whatever you lose with guns you can't win after deals. It will be too late, then a holiday, to go and see if we should have organized our National Guard or not. There's been a reduction in ammunition, ammunition. And as you know, what's going on? That's not the point anymore. The point is that the national guard loses his interest, who is leaving his job - which he probably doesn't even have, but is looking for a job - to go once Sunday to do post-training or to do a shot. You can understand that, when this institution is deceived by the state, it is gradually decreasing the interest of the citizen who is taking part as a national guard, unpaid, of course, as it is not some sort of unpaid position. What I would like to say is that at least let us agree that you should take some action so that the citizen who is called upon to take part in the National Guard does not see this as a contributor. And to tell you why he sees it that way. I, for example, belonged to the National Guard forces. Once elected Member, they called me and told me that I can no longer be a national guard, because it is incomplete to be a MP and a national guard. We should at least agree that it should be the backwards. All Members should also be forced to be national guards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u7	Obviously, you want to answer, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u8	I am literally surprised by this proposal, all Members being national guards. Of course, we must always take the lead, and we must respond many times to issues that are remote and dreams of summer night. What matters, however, and I would point out once again is that, basically, it is a voluntary institution. It is very little the money that is given. I have to tell you that it is touching that they sacrifice some Sunday morning hours, so that most volunteers can continue to train in their light weapons. I repeat: the role of special duties for the storage of fuels, warehouses and others, which I cannot say at the moment, but I am at your disposal to answer specifically - because there is also a classification of confidentiality - is specific. What I can tell you is that the role of the Member in this House is specific, the role of the national guard is specific, the role of the Houses is specific, and in no case does it all come into a political'seaker' of extreme populism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u9	The second question will be discussed under number 338/11-6-2015, a topical question from Dramas of Potamios, Mr. Kyriakos Charakides, Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the functioning of the Centre for Environmental Education of Parannesti. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Anastasios Kourakis. Here, Mr. Charakides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I had tabled my question on 26 March and of course you answered me in good time. Today I insist on the timely question, because I think I should do so. My question was about the ministerial decision adopted on 28-2-2014 as an interpreter of the Circular issued by the Ministry - not on your own behalf, but much earlier - concerning seminars, conferences, environmental education centres, for the CCTs. This circular prohibits the participation of adults who are trained in educational activities of environmental education centres if they are outside the administrative district of which the JRC belongs. The Ministry replied, in your written answer, to my written question which I had tabled and you refer to the 1993 Ministerial Decision establishing the CIPs, which refers to the updating of various social groups in the RIPs region. I am amazed that the Ministry is not aware of which ministerial decision the CICs are now to be governed. I would like to point out that the operation of the EICs from 1-8-2011, following their development in lifelong learning centres for the environment and sustainability, is governed by the new ministerial decision 83691/1-8-2011. In this Ministerial Decision, and in particular Article 7(6) thereof, there is no reference to geographical limitation of participating adults in actions and seminars of SICs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. However, as a result of this, you have issued a circular based on the wrong ministerial decision, limiting lifelong learning seminars to social groups in the same prefecture and hence the region in which the ICT is located. But the management authority of your Ministry has a different view. It says, therefore, that for the European programmes, which you are applying to the RCF, there is no question of eligibility for expenditure relating to three-day seminars for adults from all over Greece, provided that their travel costs are borne by them. So multi-days can be done with the costs of traveling themselves. At the same time, regarding the Ministry's answer that lifelong learning activities are not multi-day seminars but seminars or some afternoon meetings of awareness raising on environmental issues, this contradicts both the action of lifelong learning for the environment, which is co-financed by the actions, as well as the approval of multi-day seminars and activities that were given until recently by the Ministry of Education itself. I have two different approvals here, one for the Paranest CCU and one from another CCU, which you are approving for multi-day seminars. I therefore ask - and I close - whether you intend to withdraw the specific circular that has taken out your predecessor from the previous government, a circular which has caused serious problems in the actions of the CIPs and, in particular, of the CIPs in border municipalities, such as the one in Neroscope. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for his timely question and for the opportunity to clarify the specific issue he raises, which relates to environmental education centres and, in particular, to the Paradesti Environmental Education Centre. I would like to emphasise in advance that for the Ministry of Education environmental education is a very crucial and essential issue. It is assumed that our priorities are included in the will to upgrade environmental education centres and also to strengthen environmental education as an integrated educational object. I would also like to stress on this occasion that the work of the Centre for Environmental Education is recognised by the Ministry of Education, fully understanding that it is part of an ecological tradition that has been developed in an area in which it is active in the field of ecology and important actors in civil society. This is very important. In this context, the transmission of an alternative ecological awareness to students and, more generally, to the educational community is an essential objective and it is clear that the area in particular of Paradesti is a reference point for Greece as a whole. Of course, I am also referring to ecological awareness activities and to the transmission of a growing culture of organic and traditional agriculture that is developing in the region. Throughout this context, the leadership of the Ministry of Education wishes to contribute to the continuation of this tradition, including by strengthening the operation of the environmental education centre in the region. So, first of all, and in order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to stress that we do not want any kind of restriction on the functioning of the centre, of course, beyond what is provided for in the framework of its operation and the targeting set for its educational action. Therefore, as indicated in the relevant Ministerial Decision 2011, which has not been withdrawn, the activities of environmental education centres throughout Greece and not only in the specific centre, focus on the two-thirds priority actions aimed at the educational community of their area of scope. The other 1/3 of their action is devoted to the preparation of these actions, which always have the educational community as a reference point. In this direction, therefore, the Ministry of Education issued the relevant cycle of February, clarifying the targeting of environmental education centres for pupils, teachers and local communities, with emphasis on the areas in which they belong. This is the logic of the operation of environmental education centres as provided for in the existing framework. I think that is the logic of their spatial distribution. Besides, the area of range of the Centre for Environmental Education of Parenestio includes all the counties of the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. There is therefore absolutely no question, in our view, of limiting its operation, as is not a matter of restricting the operation of the environmental education centres throughout the country. I would like to stress, however, that the role of environmental education centres is not to enhance citizens' visibility in a place, but to raise awareness of the educational community of their regions. I imagine we agree with that. So this is the direction in which the relevant departments of the Ministry of Education have been instructed, which I am going to mention in detail in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u14	Minister, I am sincerely pleased at the credit you give for the operation of the Paranestion Environmental Education Centre, because it is doing a very important job in a difficult area. The result of this work is to have this visitability it has. I must point out to you that the application of the Circular in question, as it says, is incorrect. And here is the circular referred to in Article 6(b): "to actions for lifelong learning and adult education". It does not say anywhere that it geographically restricts these actions and must be through the county. The result of this circular is, however, that it has limited the visitability, which is of interest to the region, beyond the work that it does and which you recognize. There must be a visitability, so that these two hundred people are also there in this municipality. The training of a thousand five hundred adults has been reduced. There is, therefore, a negative impact on both the economic and social life of the societies based in the CIPs, and in particular the specific CIPs. It's not a civil-type DPA, you said so. He's in this area. I'm forced to exaggerate. The reduction of the number of visitors to the Parentium HICP has caused a huge negative impact on the socio-economic life of the border of the Municipality of Paranestio and the Drama Regional Unit. Let me tell you that he is the largest municipality in Greece with a million thirty-seven acres, Mr President, with two and a half thousand inhabitants and all those there exaggerate themselves, from the municipality, the mayor, from the centre, in order to stand up to this area, and he gives life. Imagine that the thousand five hundred who did not go to training are eight times the population of Paradesti. I'm saying that to give the size to understand. I can't give any other clues. Honestly, I would like you to answer this question: so we understand the incentives we have to give to such areas, which perhaps need to be overcome many times by the laws and the circulars, so that we can strengthen them? Are these the policies for the development of education, lifelong learning? That's where we'll take them. You said about Peliciti, obviously, the seeds produced there, in this particular area, and the training takes place. They are seeds that come from far behind, from our grandparents, ancient seeds that are even given to visitors there. I, Minister, point out all this, and I say to you that it is not just the Ministry or the programmes that pays for the operation of this JEP. The municipality, who, in its pact with them, has to spend 17,000 euros a year, spend 30,000 euros a year in order to have this U.S. there, for people to know the Paradesti and the Drama Regional Unit, to do environmental education and at the same time, of course, the three-day seminars to give life to this place. Please, not to say I beg you to see these things about the border, at last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u15	It is good to have a good word about self-government right now and then in this Chamber. The Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Kourakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u16	Mr. President, I'm a former mayor. But that's not all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u17	That's why I said it. I knew why I said it. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Listening with caution to the remarks made by the honourable Member, I would like to stress and repeat that the Ministry of Education has as its sole and absolute objective the support and upgrading of environmental education centres. We still have a lot to do, my dear colleague. In this context, I should like to publicly express the Ministry's willingness to continue to discuss in depth with all those involved in environmental education, as it has done since the first day, and to intervene, where necessary, in the direction of strengthening these structures. We know that there is now an important grid of environmental education structures in our country, and here I would like to say that this net obviously is not the result of the current government's policy. It is a long-standing effort that, of course, in cooperation with local communities, has been upgraded and the operation of these centres really is jewelery. Obviously, we want it to be enlarged, but also to be linked as much as possible to the educational community and to the local communities. So, with this perception, there is no exception in dealing with the Centre for Environmental Education of the Paradise Drama. The guidelines given by the Ministry's services are exclusively on the axes that I have mentioned, and as has been pointed out in my initial position, the operation of environmental education centres covers wider geographical areas, as they are included in the administrative regions of the country. Of these administrative regions, others have fewer inhabitants, others have more inhabitants. That's the way it is. This is dictated by the framework governing the operation of the centres and we cannot overlook it. I would like to stress here that we must be careful about the objectives of environmental education provided by centres. Their aim is not to promote - and I would like to repeat this - the visitability of a city, but to contribute to the educational process in their area of origin. I would like this to be understood in order not to confuse educational objectives with the availability to strengthen the visibility and economy of a region which is, of course, legitimate and concerns the people. It can be achieved in many other ways, but the purpose of environmental education centres is very specific in terms of education process and of changing attitudes. I return here because it is one of the main issues that you raise in your written question following which you tabled the timeliness we are discussing today. If, therefore, the Centre for the Environment of Parenestio aimed to attract visitors from other parts of Greece to the city, then there might be a divergence from the educational objectives. I guess you're not implying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u19	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u20	Okay, very good. It's important to agree. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. However, as you rightly say, the existing framework does not explicitly prohibit any action that might exceed the centre's area of competence. I have to tell you that in the list I have on the centre's activities this year, in our own government and after the circular you say, I read that the secondary schools that are involved are from any region other than your own. I am not saying that it is wrong, I am simply pointing it out. I read in turn secondary schools from the following areas: Polychni, Polychni, Orestia, Abelokkipi, Moudania, Moudania...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u21	Check it out in the Minutes, so we don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u22	Serres, Calymnos, Yannitsa. You can understand, then, that no more than we are putting an obstacle to this action. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To conclude, I would like to say that in this direction the Ministry of Education remains a great supporter of the efforts of the Centre for the Environment of Parannesti, as well as of the other centres. And I and the Ministry are at your disposal and at the disposal of all environmental education actors for any processing that will help to promote their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u23	And we, Mr. Kourakis. We are now entering the circle of questions which the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Andreas Xanthos, will answer. The first question will be discussed under number 357/16-6-2015 of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the General Panarcadian Hospital Tripolis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, my question refers to the unjustified interventions and omissions of the administration of the 6th Health Region, as well as of the Ministry. They are interventions related to the operation of the General Panarcadian Hospital of Tripoli, a hospital, which, apart from its central geographical location in the region, also has high-skilled and higher-care departments, such as neurosurgery, jaundice, oncology, pediatric surgery, pediatric surgery, ICU, invasive cardiology unit and full radiodiagnostic, some of which are unique in the region. A few days ago, therefore, a specialist hospital X-rayer was moved to an Attica Health Center, without the consent of the hospital's scientific and administrative bodies, with an unjustified and confiscated decision of the respective commanders of the health regions. At the same time, the executive of an ancillary radiologist and the department, which actually has a brake function rate for the service of hospital and external patients with classical radiology, mammography, ultrasound, axial and magnetic tomography, has been completed and now remains with two qualified doctors in a total of six organic posts and cannot even cover on-calls. On the other hand, two legs have the question - the same time while in the hospital it operated Middle Technical Professional Nursing School since 1987, which was converted into ASPD of Nurses, and while it was possible, according to Law No.4316 of December 2014, to transform this school, as well as another forty-eight schools across Greece, into a public IEC, yet the Ministry did not go to the establishment of a public IEC in six of the forty-eight schools throughout Greece and Tripoli. On the other hand, however, this school in Tripoli met all the conditions for the creation of a public IEK, such as the private building, and even according to the donor, the Panarcadian Federation of America, should be the home of brothers, the building that is housed and parts of the hospital. There was interesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask, what does the Ministry intend to do about these two parts of the question? So, he's gonna restore the operation of the Radiology Department? Will it create public IKK in the hospital? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u27	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I think that highlighting these problems is an opportunity to explain and make the remedial moves they need. First of all, Tripoli Hospital recognizes that it is indeed a hospital upgraded by the level of the ordinary prefecture hospital. It also has services of a higher and regional nature, obviously, and it is a hospital which needs special care and of course not weakening. In this case of the movement of radiologics, we know that there were serious family, social reasons and that this three-month movement of this doctor was chosen at the Rafina Health Centre, which has an increased movement during the tourist season, in cooperation with the two OSHs, of the 1st and 6th OSH. Obviously there was a feeling that the function of the department would not be significantly affected, given that we had ensured the extension of the term of subsidiary doctors until the end of the year. This doctor chose to stop her and this caused this upset, the side effect. You know very well that two crises of permanent radiologists are under way for this section. On the initiative of the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the SKEIOPNIS and the assurance we have is that in a very short time the crises will be completed and then we will try as a Ministry to proceed as soon as possible. And certainly in the case of the recruitment of subsidiary doctors, which will take place in the next few years, there will be special attention to this section. You know very well that no more posts are being proclaimed. The hospitals will submit requests, obviously by undertaking at the same time that they will be able to pay from their own resources for these doctors. The process has been simplified. The list of supplementary doctors by specialisation is currently being established. We give the opportunity to state the supplementary doctors of two OSCEs and two prefectures. We believe that this will simplify the procedure very much and therefore the placement will be quick and not as in the past that took about four to five months. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In any case, in this hospital there is still the placement of seven permanent doctors of the U.S., five for the Hospital and two for the Dimitsana and Megalopolis Health Centres, from old crises that are completed and which we are committed to moving forward with the process of positioning them within '15.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President. On the subject of EPC you are absolutely right. It was our perception. The criterion by which we decided to convert the existing NSAs to IEC directions of health and welfare was their request from students. That's why the forty-eight schools were held forty-two. For the other six - which was poorly included in the Tripoli Hospital - there was mostly no demand from students. There will be a corrective ministerial decision, which will include your hospital and will guarantee the operation of this school, of course under other conditions, under the auspices of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament and, students and students and two teachers from Demos High School in Cologne, Germany. The Greek Parliament welcomes you. And because I know that there is a teacher who speaks Greek and will translate them to you, I tell you that he welcomes you with a lot of love and asks you, returning to your homeland, to convey the message that the people of Greece have nothing to separate with the people of Germany and the people of Europe. Despite any mistakes that may have been made and made, we are also asking you to join your voice for another Europe and not the Europe of speculators and bankers. We very much welcome you to Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Zechariah, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am pleased to hear from you about the Ministry's restoration move to establish a public IK at the Panarcadal Tripolis Hospital. And since much has been said in the local press and in the local society about action by political actors, who, after action in the old way, have restored the situation, I believe that the Ministry self-evidently recognises his mistake and goes ahead with the establishment of the public IEK. As regards the movement of radiologists and the lack of doctors in the radiology department, I would like to say that, in the summer time, it is currently facing a particular problem with two doctors and a problem of newspapers. You said - and it is really pleasant - to fill in the two empty organic positions, which were delaying years, of course, and the other seven in our hospital. On the other hand, the Ministry must proceed and satisfy the request of the hospital, the administration of the hospital and the local society for the immediate placement of two subsidiary doctors. The demand has been made, and I think you should go ahead, because, as you know, with the recent move by the government to recruit subsidiary doctors, this intake is very short, while the recruitment of permanent staff to hospitals is being delayed anyway, and as quickly as possible, it takes an eight-month period, as I count, to which there should definitely be an ancillary doctor service. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u34	I will make a comment, Mr President. Obviously, since the administration of the hospital assures that it can cover these positions, we have no reason to deny it and we believe that the new system will move on quickly. What I mean to say is that we are at a point where the health system has a marginalized staff everywhere. There are problems in the province as well as in the large urban centres. The direction we have taken in health regions is to make the best possible use of human resources, also using limit movements. Of course, when you move on to a reasonable emblematic, or to a logic of addressing acute economic, family and social problems, which too must not be ignored - there is, in other words, human potential today in the health system facing serious problems, which must be taken into account by the government's political leadership and to try to facilitate people, by making them at the bottom of the scripture and more efficient - all this effort to combine all of this also involves the risk of making and moving not well-selected or having side effects which had not been calculated from the outset. So when you try to cover explosive needs everywhere in such a landscape, I think that this project is very difficult and I recognise that some moves might not have had the necessary preparation and preparation to be implemented. However, what we want to make clear is that the government is seeking to have a serious intervention to support the public system at this time, because the demand for services has increased, because the staff are deficits and, of course, the hospital budgets have been drastically cut down. We believe that, to the extent that these days of tough and painful negotiation of our country with Europe is completed, there will be a new, clearer and stable financial framework that will enable us to put these priorities in place for public care.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. We move to the second under No 349/15-6-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Health, on the shortcomings in the artificial kidney units of Laconia. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. A little further to the south now, following Mr Zacharia's important intervention and going to the Laconia Prefecture, where the health units in the county are having major problems. As the Minister is well aware, because of his speciality, health units are a self-supported and constantly in need of improvement, which means that she must always be monitored directly responsible for her, which is the Greek state. I aim to keep the question up to date on the issues of artificial kidneys, because they are the ones that are housed in the Laconia Prefecture in the two major health units in the prefecture, which are the ones of Sparta and Molas, where in Sparta we have sixteen machines which cover sixty-five hemorrhabitants, and in Molaus we have eleven machines for thirty-six hemorrimulants. These machines are characterised for their old age, as well as for the population that it wants to serve because of the summer months that, as you well know, Mr President, because of your speciality, many of the urban centres - mainly from Athens - who will be coming down to their villages and regions now in the summer, will be hosted in the corresponding dialysis machines, which means that they are being charged with a further population, when, for Sparta and for the Molas, there is only a possibility for ten more 'visitors' who are found in these two units. I would therefore like you, Minister, to tell me what you are planning and what you have decided on the dialysis units of the Laconia Prefecture, what you intend to do about their old age and, in any case, whether you have something to tell us further about improving the already difficult and tight situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u37	And we, Mr. Davaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I am pleased that you are approaching the issue of the care of fellow people in need of continuous dialysis. It is an important category of population that needs special treatment and care. Your county is lucky to have two units of artificial kidney, covering a very significant number of time - bleededs. Indeed, the machinery available to these units has exceeded their living limit and there are continuous damages, so that there are two machines in reserve always for damage and from what I hear and the maintenance needs have increased costs at this time, so it is an issue that needs to be addressed. I know that efforts have been made to join the NSRP, that technical bulletins have emerged, that the effort being made at the moment - which has been launched by the previous government - is to join the Public Investment Programme. They have a cost of about 350,000 euros for the renewal of twenty machines. The Committee on Health Procurement has already seen this, it has consulted the EMCDDA on the specifications, and we believe that this case should be brought forward. It is indeed a need that we need to cover. Now, with regard to the hospitality of visitors of the prefecture, which is an issue facing it in all the artificial kidney units of the country - particularly in the tourist areas, it is in the summer - the assurance we have from the hospital and from the doctors of these departments that all applications will be covered in consultation with the people in need, trying to cover the entire period - up to two months - so that they can join the programme on shifts, i.e., which operate. After all, three shifts are at Sparta Hospital and two at Molas Hospital. There is an effort, perhaps with a marginal internal staff movement, to strengthen and to have a third shift at the Molai Hospital, so that all sixty-five - plus thirty - six - hemorrhaging patients at this time, plus the visitors of the county, are treated. I believe that with goodwill and obviously with increased supply and the friendlyness of human resources this problem will be tackled for this year's season, without a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister referred to the efforts of the present administration. In this context, with one amendment, Mr Minister, you are putting them all down. That's how we find out. And that is something that I think is inconsistent with you, although I do not know you well, of course, but from what I see you and from the parliamentary point of view and from the general point of view, I would say, your short state to the Ministry of Health. It is not possible for people with experience to cease. This reminiscent of old times of party armies, who come today to stumble against the state again, having the brunt of power. You'll have to see that. And I say that following on from what you said, as regards the current administration of Sparta Hospital, which with very considerable efforts tried to cover the issue of the shortages of artificial kidney units. In other words, he tried to put it into the NRP, as you said - we know, but you said it - and then tried, through the Committee on Health Procurement, to finance these EUR 300,000 for the twenty-seven new machines. This means that both the experience of the current administration and the insight into resolving the problem of artificial kidney units is great. I think you should know that a hemorrhaging person in the Greek region is not the hemorrhaging person who takes the taxi from Pagkrari and goes to "Evangelism" and does haemodialysis. He leaves the remote villages of Mani, from the remote villages of Naples, from northern Laconia. You realize what such a man means to be all the time in a taxi or in his relative’s car or friend. You realize this is another type of bleeding. Furthermore, I would like you to try, firstly, to see the issue of the withdrawal of the health units again. The Minister, your chief, cannot behave in this way by restoring conditions of old-fashioned communism, as has been done in other areas of public administration. Secondly, we need to see what you said. Will the financing of these thirty-five thousand new machinery for the public investment programme go on in the case of the public investment programme? Again, you yourself said - I am using your words - that the cost of maintaining these old machines that have exceeded the threshold is far greater than buying new ones. It's common sense. Just stuff. Thirdly, I have been informed recently - and because you are self-sufficient about health, I would like you to reply to me, although it was not my question, but it all goes hand in hand - that primary health has been affected by cutting costs by 35% of the health care centres' newspapers. We in Laconia - and the entire Greek region - have health centres. These people, when you cut them 35% of their pay for on-calls, how are they gonna work? How will they put gasoline to go to the health center from a village or anywhere else? These are important issues that you need to see. Revision of this, Minister. Also, issues relating to the EAW of Laconia Prefecture, note them. I would like an answer and you will inform me in writing, in addition to parliamentary scrutiny. The Castorio Health Centre, which we launched on 18 January - you will tell me that it was a pre-election period, may have evidence of an election period with what it means - established with FEC, Mr President, in a remote area of the Laconia Prefecture. You guys go ahead. Take the laurels of his operation you. The Greek people have done their work on machinery and staff, so that this area, which is adjacent to the new road of Lefktro - Sparta, which I believe will work soon, can also be used as a first aid unit in the case of automotive accidents. I shall conclude, Mr President. Also - note this, Minister, because here we have to have an indulging and creative debate - there is the question of the pathological clinic of the Sparta Hospital. It is the clinic that, as you should well know, concentrates most of the patients. The principal's retiring. The pathological will be headless in a short time. There is a huge population of people who are calling for state assistance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u41	Dear Ithanasios, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u42	These are issues that you need to see. I close with my reinstatement: Go ahead for the three hundred thousand for the artificial kidney units to be renewed and made better. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u43	What can we do? It's Laconia. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, in order to close the specific issue concerning the artificial kidney unit, I would again say that it is an area of special need and necessary sensitivity both in terms of infrastructure and in terms of human resources. In particular, we have arranged for a three-year term of office for the auxiliary doctors to be three years, precisely in the sense of allowing an increased term of office and, therefore, ensuring that the staffing of these units is not jeopardised. I believe that, in cooperation with the Ministry's services, we will follow the issue of joining the Public Investment Programme. Our will is to do it. Obviously, the country's Public Investments Programme in general has suffered a great deal of cutback. But I think there should be priority. You have raised individual issues. On the subject of newspapers, the newspaper budget, my dear colleague, was budgeted by the previous government. It is indeed a deficit, it is very low in relation to last year and, possibly, there have also been unequal distributions within the OSH with a tendency, as I see it, to cut far greater proportions in the local units, particularly in health centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u45	The 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u46	I know. There are similar problems at this time in both the 2nd RCD, which covers the whole Aegean and has serious problems. We will make corrective moves, trying to safely strengthen the staffing of these health centres. But you realise that in order for there to be a comprehensive reform of the state budget in relation to hospitals and the corresponding budget for doctors' newspapers, this will be the result of one, as I said before, of a wider safeguard resulting from a new framework agreement in the next few days. Needs are huge in the health system. We've said it too many times. Currently, 30% of the demand for services has increased, 30% of human resources has decreased and more than 50% of operating expenditure has been cut. This, as you can see, leads to a functional blackout. This blackout we want to prevent it in every way and by emergency measures we will try to ensure the survival of public structures. As far as the issue of the governors is concerned, which you have raised with emphasis, I think that to give up for partyism at this time, I think, is causing a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u47	Prove that I'm not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u48	It provokes, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u49	I challenge you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u50	The indictment of the current government by representatives, who...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u51	Yesterday they brought the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u52	Allow me. ...is part of a political system, which has put the well-known seal of partyism and customer relations for decades in this country, I think it's a challenge to the common intelligence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u53	That's why you guys came.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u54	They had an obligation, let me say, the commanders not only...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u55	Minister, excuse me. This issue will be analysed in the plenary debate. In conclusion, there are colleagues who have to go to the committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, just a minute. In our view, the governors had to make their resignations available to the political leadership and assess whether some of them could remain in their positions. That's what we're gonna do now. Although the legislation will enable us to dismiss them harmlessly, there may be cases - and I think they exist - that can be exploited.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u57	Do you know anything about the Castorius Health Center?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u58	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u59	The Minister has kept notes. I don't think that's what's solved in the leg. It will be good, Mr Davakis, to have a cup of coffee and talk about it in detail, because you have raised very important issues. We're entering the last timely question about Mr. Blonde. It is the fourth under number 337/10-6-2015 timely question of the first cycle of the Member of the Prussian Lassis Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the Multivalent Psychodiagnostic Centres of the KETHA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, before I come to the subject of the CEFD, you will allow me to resign both colleagues on the matter of hospital managers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u61	Don't waste your time. See you later. Although you'll have a tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u62	Although it was unacceptable how the hospital administrations handled the hospitals, the previous ones do not justify the unacceptable political amendment, which literally allows you to appoint your 'poultry', as they used to say about the king. I accept, as one point, your good intentions, but administration is not exercised intentionally, it is exercised by institutions. We expect you to legislate with transparency of recruitment in order to applaud you. But that's backwards. It's back in the 1990s, before the law of Papadopoulos. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u63	Mr Barriotta, then you'll be shouting that you don't have time for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u64	You'll give me a minute of my period of dentistry, so I'll cover it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u65	You will, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u66	I want today, above all, to focus on a very important issue. They are the Multivalent Psychodiagnostic Centers, small, little but very important, as we will see afterwards. They were established in 2013 with funding from the ESRB. They are innovative units for the therapeutic support of people and their families who have a double diagnosis: they have some form of drug dependence - because the CTE predisposes - and at the same time also have mental illness. Under the Operational Programme ‘Human Resources Development 2007-2013’, a network of such centres was developed. There are seven numbers in Athens, Thessaloniki, my town of Larissa, Heraklion, Ioannina, Kalamata and Mytilini. They have been working since, as the treatment of such patients is problematic many times and difficult by the units of the health system. Both users and families have significant needs, which are treated by qualified, qualified personnel. About a thousand five hundred people and their families have been treated by the forty-two people who work in these units and who work on a fixed-term contract, which has been extended once and which, as you know, expires, Minister - I am able to know that you know that too - next month. On 21-7-2015, funding will be terminated and these centres will be brought to an end if nothing is done. The Centre has requested the extension of the contract of such workers for eight more months, in accordance with the provisions of Article 21 of the Law. In accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2190/1994, as currently in force, the budget of the CEC is to be charged to the budget of the CEC. There is the possibility of doing this within the ERCEA, without other costs. The question, Minister, is whether the Act of the Ministerial Council will be adopted, which is required to be extended for eight months, as I have said, the contracts of workers in the Psychodiagnostic Centres, as time ends and a structure which is important, in my view, and which must in some way be maintained, unfortunately, will cease to function and be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u67	Mr Colleague, your time has not been kept, because there has been tolerance to everyone. So you have three minutes for your dentistry. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u68	My dear colleague, I think you are raising a very important issue. Dependence is a complex phenomenon, it has a biological, psychological and a social dimension. It has deteriorated during the crisis. And besides drugs, there is an increased incidence of dependencies, such as alcohol, the internet, gambling, emerging dependencies. And indeed the contribution of dependency structures and bodies across the spectrum - from prevention to reduction of damage, substitution, treatment, reintegration - is very critical and important. CEDEFOP plays a key role in this chain. These seven structures were indeed an important innovation, because they tried to deal with it, and I think they have done so to a very large extent and qualitatively - they have served only in 2014 for about a thousand five hundred healers and their family members - this complex problem of dual diagnosis, namely co-morbidity of dependence and mental illness. This possibility so far only had structures of PNA and PNTH, "18 Upper" and a corresponding structure in PNTH. In the rest of the province there was no possibility for the existing operators to deal with these cases. The contribution is therefore undeniable. Our intention is that these structures remain in operation, that there should not be any interruption in the care of the healers and, on the contrary, that they should be extended, strengthened and upgraded. What we have done is that first of all, the extension of the programme was investigated through the ESDP. There was no such possibility, there was overbooking in the programs. You know that very well. There was no possibility. The solution, which has been chosen in consultation with the CSTEF and which will be implemented, therefore, is to issue a notice of eight-month contracts at the expense of the approved budget of the CSTEF and in accordance with procedures which the CSTF has, on the basis of its rules of procedure, to provide a time credit, to ensure that the operation is extended and, in particular, to prepare a more permanent solution to the problem. That's the one thing. The request has already been signed by the Ministry's Department of Finance. It will also be signed by the others, the Secretary-General and the Deputy Minister. Then he goes to the Ministry of Finance and Administrative Reform and the PHS comes out. Our attempt is to do this as quickly as possible so that there is no problem with the suffocating, say, dates that exist. That's the one thing. The second issue is to integrate the needs of permanent staff with an indefinite duration, which has suffered a significant reduction in human resources - the evidence is that ninety-five workers have left in recent years and have been recruited as permanent staff since 2006 - in the recruitment programme of permanent staff, which will be in total for the health system, for mental health and for the dependency sector. We're in agreement, and I think we're going to meet an important part of the needs of the CEDEFOP. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Obviously, we should also seek additional funding from the new Community framework with the right preparation to ensure that these structures which have been credible, which have gained the confidence of many dependent people and their families, and which are currently struggling very well for their survival, are therefore to be strengthened and supported.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u69	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u70	Minister, I'm glad to hear what I hear, because until yesterday, the journalistic information said that Mr. Katrugalos avoided committing himself to the proposal of the CCEE. I am pleased, therefore, that you are adopting the solution proposed by the CECH and I hear that it is in the process of collecting signatures. You and I know it's urgent. As I said before, it has received urgency. So I also take the opportunity to praise the work of the JRC and the special committees. In Thessaly, as far as I know from my conversation with the people who support them, it is the only centre that faces people dependent on alcoholism and their families, which I think is very important. I have been talking these days to people from all the centres, who are all united in saying that even if they are fired, even if the process is cut, they will continue to support these people, even though the CEEC, as the Minister said, has suffered a significant downturn in its staff due to the circumstances and has many operational problems, so that it can support the dependents and the people with whom it cooperates and supports. So, one hopes that this programme will continue and I am glad to hear it. Unfortunately, as you know, the ETUC, the new ESRB, has little money for health. It is perhaps a matter that we need to see when it comes to reviewing it. I don't know why he got so little money for health. It will create huge problems not only in the CECH but also in the supply of equipment for the next five years and this is a crucial point that will be answered. As you said, and we've said it several times here, both the CTEH and the other units of the health system are really in a marginal state. In conclusion, Mr Minister, and I am pleased that Mr Kurublis is listening to this, I would like to stress the need for immediate action. In addition to my amendment, as I have just commented on, I must point out and stress that the Ministry of Health, despite the many positive announcements - maximist one time but the world has not broken up - it has not to date legislated on the enormous problems of health, it has not brought any bills and, as far as I know, no one is expected to come in the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u71	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I have given you the timeframe on this matter. I think he'll deal with it. It is our will to give a solution. The interest of this story is as follows, that all the structures and bodies involved in the problem of dependency make an effort at this time to develop complementary actions and extend their scope of intervention. The KETHEA, with these psychodiagnostic centers, was extended to the part of psychiatric cognitiveness. On the contrary, the OECD is developing reintegration plants. I think that in practice a more holistic approach to the problem of dependency is being implemented. I believe that we are going beyond the oldest claws, controversies and conflicts between these bodies. Our intention is to have a framework that facilitates the functional interconnection of dependency structures and services across the spectrum, as I said before, from prevention to reintegration and to have synergy, with a view to the best possible therapeutic effect for the user. So that's our policy. It is a political choice, which is not a matter of personal sensitivity to the ministers or - I know - of the people of the government or of compassion to our fellow citizens, who are indeed vulnerable and have an additional need for protection and care. In our view, it is a political choice that says that the user and the dependant have the right to a care that includes therapeutic pluralism, will enable and personalise the care, depending on the user's capabilities and needs, and above all will ensure his or her right to heal and be properly reinstated in society. This is a crucial issue of social cohesion for a country and for a society and is a crucial issue of equality between people and it is - let me say - and a crucial issue of democracy. All of this is characteristic of a favoured state that wants to belong to Europe, despite the problems we have at this time and the fact that we are actually claiming, in a very strong way as a government, the country's equal and decent position within European data. Now on the subject of the legislative initiative, which you have referred to, I inform you that the Ministry is preparing a draft law, which will be submitted. I don't know what this is gonna be like in the summer. However, there will certainly be a legislative initiative. There are too many outstanding legislation that needs to be addressed. Above all, we need to strengthen people's accessibility to the health system, strengthen and support public structures with human resources - and we can take legislative initiatives to facilitate this - and above all, the transparent and democratic governance of this system. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] These are our concern, and that is how I respond to the top of the partisan rule. We want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u73	Minister, please, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u74	All right, Mr. President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u75	I only show tolerance when it comes to the substance of the question, not to make politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u76	Yes, but, Mr President, both colleagues have put it. I didn't put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u77	You answered. You'll keep answering that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u78	I didn't put it. I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u79	Okay. You have a minute. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u80	I answered before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u81	Good. Before we go to the questions of the second cycle, to which the Minister for Health, Mr Kurublis, will answer, and I welcome him for formal reasons, I must say: The third under number 343/12-6-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MEP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the delay in the issue of disability pensions, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. The fifth under number 362/16-6-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reintegration of OAU contractors, will not be discussed due to an objective obstacle by the colleague, also due to a Minister's blockade. The eleventh Question No 317/8-6-2015 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaea, of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the contribution agreement of EUR 9,890,500, which consists of 10 pillars, and concerns the preparation of studies on the implementation of the ‘support programme for health reforms’, is not discussed due to an objective obstacle by the colleague who is missing on a mission abroad. The sixth question under number 342-12-6-2015 of the First Cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Greek Independents Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs concerning the abolition of the special year of the Ministry of Health for the appointment of multitude of teachers in secondary education is not discussed due to an objective impediment by the colleague who is not on mission abroad. The first under No. 350/15-6-2015 topical question by the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the termination of the reinvigoration, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The third, with number 360/16-6-2015, topical question by MEP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning measures to resolve the problems of workers in the mines of Kassandra, is not discussed either because of the Minister's impediment. The fifth question, under number 328/9-6-2015, is a topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Republic, George Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, concerning the delay in the regulation on the'red loans' of farmers in the former Agricultural Bank, not being discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The sixth question, under number 309/2-2015, is not debated due to an impediment by the colleague, Mr Maria Antonios, to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the General Hospital of Kastoria. The tenth under number 318/8-6-2015 a topical question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Finance on the remuneration and commitment of the liquidator from the Bank of Greece for the "Cooperative Evian Bank" is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance. Finally, the first question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Athanasios Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of workers in the plastic tubes and fittings industry "KARINA ABEE" in New Santa of the Regional Unit Kilkis is not discussed either because of the Minister's impediment. We are now entering the debate of the fourth under number 240/19-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Simorellis, on the planned payments for drug expenditure. Mr. Simorelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for taking the trouble of coming here to answer my question, which of course is at a time when our government, our Prime Minister, is negotiating with our lenders, through incredible blackmail. And what they're not asking! In Trikala, we have a proverb. When they ask for everything, we say 'they ask for Arta and the Yannina'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u83	The Trikala, you leave it outside. Go to Arta and Iannina.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u84	Creditors are trying to cause economic suffocation, lack of liquidity in the country. The government is giving wages and pensions priority. However, it is also a very serious matter for the citizens and especially the weaker layers. So in the drug field, there has been an economic suffocation of liquidity. The industry refuses to assume its share of responsibility in the difficult conditions in which the country passes and the financial burden has fallen only in the pharmacy. Industry, while giving 12 months credit to the public, denies a two-month credit to the drug sector, which would be an economic breath for all. The unpaid reimbursement of drug costs is uncertain and of great concern to the pharmacists in the country, as well as to the entire trade and trafficking chain. However, it also creates a great deal of concern for the insured, since the drugs in fact raise the burden of funding the medical care of the country. The possibility of crediting the pharmacy to the EEA is marginal and has exhausted all margins for further delays in the reimbursement of expenditure. The non-responsible information on the EOPY funding course creates insurmountable problems with sealed cheques and a suspension of credit and enforcement of a large portion of the country's pharmacists' prescriptions. Mr President, I would like to ask the honourable Member whether the information on non-timely payment of pharmacy, as was the case to date and what they intend to do, is true in order to have a fixed payment date even on the seventy days that have taken place so far, despite the fact that the contractual obligation provides for for forty-five days. What measures will be taken to force the industry to increase the credit to the drug area, which coincides with the payment of the EEAA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Curublis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, this really is an interesting question from the honourable Member. It concerns the medicine as a good, which must be a coordinate and responsible state, to ensure its access to all without discrimination and inclusiveness. The medicine for this government is also a development process, because it has been shown by research that it is a comparative advantage that this country can make use of and actually create jobs, which is crucial and what is needed in this effort that is being done today, so that the children of our people, the children who have studied, hard and hard, not to take their teams abroad, but to find well-paid jobs in Greece, as a result of new wealth distributed in a fair way, strengthening the export potential of Greece. Mr President, I would like to say that it is very essential that this government takes responsibility under very difficult circumstances. I think every honourable Member and citizen recognises that. We are already aware today, with the efforts made by the government in Brussels, how difficult it is. However, it must be confessed - and I too should like to thank the Deputy Minister of Finance - that the household made by this government and the hierarchy that is being done, we can say that the payments have not been stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that at the moment we have a loose end to paying in March. So there is no delay on the substance. I can assure you that the end of March next week will begin. I would like to say, therefore, that we are making every effort to ensure that there are no problems in this area in order to meet both the needs of pharmacy and industry. Mr President, allow me to say here: the government has started a negotiation with the industry. Of course, I am saying this and the Minister of Finance will now hear it and make me cuts. For the first time this negotiation gives EUR 160 million. The question is why it hasn't happened so far. We changed the rebate model and made it rebate tumor. What does rebate tumor mean, Mr President? For the first time, the multinational pharmaceuticals are paying, because they have the most turbulent. You should know that ninety-eight medicines have 70% of the cost. So you understand where the big track is. And these industries, which so far no Minister has put them at the table, Mr President, retain a tax haven. And this government dares also to open this issue, because we really want to put things in order. And it is already up to the Ministry of Finance to meet on this matter. I would like to say that we are trying to put a new transparent framework in the field of drug trafficking. And there's more to do. These days we are discussing the revaluation, to see how exactly we are going to promote things, so that the law also applies and that there is transparency, so that the medicine can actually be a good accessible to all people, both at hospital level and at pharmacy level. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And I conclude by saying that it is a good question, Mr President, that predecessor leadership has abolished the provision and 4.5% of the wholesale profit - when the pharmaceuticals were not selling in the stores, but directly to the pharmacies - instead of going to the EPPY as it was, go to the industries. They were poor! They wanted aid from the pharmaceutical industries, especially the multinationals! The government withdrew it and since medicines are sold by the pharmaceutical industry to the pharmacy, without passing through the pharmaceutical stores, the wholesale profit will now go to the EEA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your understanding and be sure that in this fight you are doing, the pharmacists will be with you. I would just like to remind you that there is a problem with late payments, especially in the Attica Association, the pharmacists in Attica. There is a case that EEAH owes since 2012 more than 20 million. I think that, with the responsibility of the previous governments and Ministers, this money has not been used. My question is, what will come of this amount?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u89	Thank you for the brief. I will give the floor to the Minister. Minister, because you have been addressing the President-in-Office too many times - not that it is forbidden - I would like to remind you that the first law on the return of money to the treasury of pharmaceuticals had also voted for him and you had helped me. Remember when it was voted. Another time it was applied. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I thank the colleague for giving me this opportunity to say a few things that we have started at the Ministry of Health. We will be briefing you, Mr Colleagues, and the Committee on Social Affairs, once we have completed this cycle. We, Mr President, will link the medicine to the principle of being a good accessible to all citizens, without anyone denying it. We have already prepared a provision with Mr. Xanthos and will come to the House for the so-called "delay" medicines, as cancer patients are suffering today by having to look for the drugs of the EEA. We'll bring them back to hospitals, because that's what respects human dignity. We are creating an institutional framework for benefits in respect of cancer patients, Mr President, who have no country to envy in Europe, despite the very great difficulties that the country is going through and economic closeness. And that is the result of a household, Mr President, that we are doing in this area. I close by saying that we want the medicine to be produced in Greece to a large extent. So we also call on the Greek pharmaceutical industry, which really has a high level of know-how, and we must support it, but also every industry, Mr President, that we also change the institutional framework for clinical studies, because we expect that there will be enough money from there. Of course, any company can come and produce. Because multinationals, which over the last ten years have been collecting over EUR 40 to 50 billion from the country, must also come some of the drugs consumed in Greece to produce them or pack them in Greece. We will support this area, because we consider it to be a comparative advantage for the country, because that means real growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u91	Me too, Minister. We move to the ninth with number 320/8-6-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Artemis Mathiopoulos to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Health, on "with regard to the problems caused by the release of illegal immigrants from detention centres". Read as it is written on paper. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have to admit that you are aware of the consistency in your performance of your duties under parliamentary control, but I would like to convey a fair request from the Golden Dawn to your Ministry and you personally, because we face the phenomenon of not answering written questions from the current Minister on the pretext that the third political party in the country has a legal dispute and therefore should not receive information on current policy issues and other issues that concern not only Golden Dawn but also the other Greeks. Today's question concerning the problems created by the release of illegal immigrants from detention centres is certainly not just about your Ministry. The question could also be put to other competent ministries, such as the Civil Protection, the Ministry of the Interior, Administrative Reconstruction and so on, but because it is a more moral question, we would like an answer to a question that concerns the entire Greek society. I would remind you that a matter has just been discussed in the Legislation on citizenship which concerns not only the political world, but also the Greek people, who are unfortunately experiencing tragic situations from the problem that is growing every day, that is, the ever-increasing entry of illegal immigrants into the country. I would like to make it quite clear from the outset that we are deliberately coming back to this issue and asking questions about illegal immigration, on the one hand, because it is a major issue, on the other, because we believe that the state has not done enough to deal with it. When I talk about the state, I am not only talking about the current coup d'état, which has been dominated for about five months, but also about the previous conflicts, particularly that of the New Democracy and the PASOK, parties that have not only solved the problem for many years, instead of expanding it with the policies that followed. Secondly, to come to questions such as these are recorded in the timely question that has been distributed to you and to return to my dentistry later, I would like to have a concrete answer on the criteria by which you decide to release illegal immigrants from detention centres. I realize I'm embarrassing you. You don't have to adopt terminology. For you they are 'irregular immigrants'. For us there are people who are illegally coming to the country. We would like to know what the criteria are for a state of fairness, as it stands, to release people who cause problems in the social fabric of the country and in the public health of the Greeks. Because it has been observed that diseases that have disappeared from the Greek society for decades and, therefore, from the aggregation of these people who have no place of residence and are forced to stay in parks, squares or elsewhere, phenomena such as AIDS, tuberculosis, hepatitis etc. are being treated. I shall return to my dentistry on other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u93	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, because I am a lover of the Greek language, and I think that Parliament is not just an area of political process, but also an area of cultivation and language, I would like to say with all due respect to my fellow Member that there are no smugglers. It is therefore useful to use the best possible serotypes. Our language is so rich, capable of capture and rendering all concepts. So I think it would be appropriate to use more appropriate terminologies. On the immigration issue, this is a global phenomenon. It is a phenomenon created by the wild exploitation of peoples and regions. It is a planetary capitalism that gives rise to all these contradictions and forces people to seek even at the risk of their lives - because hunger is an advisor to lead man to such choices - a better hope in another region, such as Europe. So this beautiful country, which is at a strategic point, is also a sapphire in the wider region, unfortunately, is at a point of contact with the problems that are evolving in the Middle East and the wider region. It is therefore one of the countries that accept this pressure. Mr President, as a government, we in the informal Council of Ministers raised the issue of immigration with great intensity, and even though it was not on the agenda, Mr President, we have called on Cyprus, Italy and Malta, with which a front has now been set up in the face of the indifference of the European Union, to be assembled. Well, the problem isn't with these devastated people. The problem is to those who give birth to the causes that lead someone to leave their homeland. Here, Europe and the Greek Government - and today - must do what the predecessor governments have not done, that is to make it clear that the Greek economy cannot bear all this burden. That is why we also set up this front with the other countries. The Luxembourg Council of Ministers, together with the other three countries, once again raised this issue and we demand the necessary expenditure and funding to ensure that these people are taken care of. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall continue, Mr President, in my dentistry, so that I do not go out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u95	It's all right, Mr. Kurubli. I'll give you some time, because I think that was the main question. So, if you want, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u96	I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u97	All right, Minister. Then you'll continue in your dentistry. Mr. Matthaopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u98	Mr Minister, if we agree on something, that is what you have just said, that we should resolve the problem where it is located, at its root and that since some factors give rise to illegal immigration, Greece cannot, of course, be the victim of illegal immigration. I repeat that I do not want to degrade the dignity of people and their lives, at least those who seek a better future in our homeland, those who hope for a better future, because you know very well - and let us all at last admit - that crime indicators have been launched in parallel with the impregnable entry of illegal immigrants. What I am showing as a smuggler is how to move from a country that faces a civil war, for example, to another country governed by a Greek Constitution, which clearly and explicitly says that no human being is allowed to enter without the necessary procedures. You know and we know who they are. From there on, because you spoke about the causes of the problems, what we are showing with today's question is that we do not want the coup d'état to be the cause of further problems, because the issue of illegal immigration has already reached a limit point. If you are being carried by your colleagues images that the Greek islands are facing today, especially in the northern Aegean, on the eastern border with Turkey, you will understand that the situation has reached the unprecedented ones and that the issues that are reflected in this timely question are in isolation and apply in some cases, but they describe a problem that must be solved immediately and effectively. If this issue is not solved today, the problems that will be created from now on in the next few days will be really unsolved and evil will find all the doors and not just the people who today see, for example, Lemnos, Chios, Kos or any other island sinking from ships that carry migrants irregular or illegal immigrants. You can say it as you wish, as it doesn't matter anymore. The second question concerns the idea of dealing with the situation under the famous Dublin II Treaty. Because if you want to convince me that your Government is even trying to resolve this particular issue through a humanism perspective, let us not forget that it is anti-humanistic to force a man who wants to leave Greece, to stay here because the Dublin II Treaty provides, among other things, for anyone who wants to leave the Greek border. What humanity, then, when the state itself signs a treaty which forbids the free transition of people, who now have free will, free expression to go where they wish, when Greece itself - and you yourself admitted it just now - does not even have the necessary infrastructure - economic, health, social, moral, whatever it may be - to accept this entire wave of people who come to Greece today? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And since I am referring to your Ministry, the National Health System has been completely devalued by previous governments. I will not criticise your work. You've only been in the government for five months. It's too short a time to see the first results. If nothing else, however, you know very well, since you are dealing with these issues, that the National Health System has been devalued, it does not have the appropriate infrastructure to serve a Greek patient, how much more is it to provide the necessary services to people who carry diseases like those that I described in my prototype. And we are not talking about a few in the number, but about hundreds of thousands, who are growing day after day because of the fact that Greece - it has now become understandable - everyone is welcome, everyone is welcome. But if you are a Greek and go to a public hospital, you will not enjoy all the rights deriving from your nationality, but you will have to pay the 5 euro charm - if you remember - you will have to pay the medicine, you will have to go with your own gauze or with your own side to provide you with the first coke aid. So these are issues which must be dealt with with with a political will, which - I repeat - must be of a clear character, which will be part of the Constitution, of Greek legislation and of laws, and not with a view to humanism that always harms the Greek citizen and the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u99	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, there are a few issues which we all have, independent of political and ideological position, must not be deceived: Hellenism has always had humanity within it. No Greek, Mr President, in the city or in the province, if a man is found next to him, will be indifferent, as is the case in other countries. Whatever that man is. So that's something we need to protect, because it's a value in our attitude as a society. I would like to raise a second point, Mr President. I am, Mr President, one of the people who have fought the Dublin II Treaty because it was done to serve Europe's central countries and to load the problem in the contact countries. And we all realize what that means. That is why this issue is open to us, and how the burdens should be allocated. And it is the first government in the country to put this issue on the agenda, Mr President. So the last initiative has come about today, with which there will be a debate at the summit. And there the Ministry of Health, with organized efforts and in cooperation with Italy, Cyprus and Malta, raised the matter. And it's Greek initiative, Mr. Comrade. You can look for the minutes of the informal Council of Ministers to see that it was a matter that was not on the agenda. And we have made it conditional and insistent, because the National Health System cannot, with all these problems, be in the way of dealing with those people who have to deal with them. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] So he has a cost. This cost cannot be borne only by Greece or Italy. That is why we called for this process of movement, for vulnerable groups to be taken into account, children, pregnant women, the elderly, people with health problems. For these people, even if they have been in the country without health problems, in recent months, in recent years, they have lived under such bad conditions, Mr President, who are vulnerable to various diseases. That is why we ask Europe to assume its responsibilities. And it will be taken over, Mr President, because there is a government which does not go there to obey the instructions and instructions, but to make exactly reasonable points. We're not asking for anything more. We ask for reason. Today, then, the issue of immigration is an issue that all of Europe must take on and not avoid. And I can inform you that while I received indifference from the positions of other Member States, I saw an interest in the positions at the next meeting because they have now seen a front in the south on this issue. We have already decided to have a system of information for the four Member States on what is going on. I would also like to say - in order to get a message everywhere - that we are now being informed that the policy which Italy is going to pursue at sea borders will lead to many cases coming closer to Greece. So we'll have an even bigger problem. So these issues need to be tackled seriously, moved and transferred to all the governments of Europe. And the cost is real. And all this must be debated not to get into the logic of rejecting these people and saying that we are not taking care of them - it would be inhuman to enter such a logic and we will never enter - but because Europe must assume its own responsibilities so that we can really reduce the effects of such a problem, which, as it turns out in the summer months, will also have a intensity, but also an extent. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] I close, Mr President, by saying that immigration is a very big issue. I would like to say to my fellow Member that the policy pursued with regard to centres is based on the law. And because I often hear him talk about legality, I would like to say to him that on the basis of legality all these acts are carried out by the Ministry responsible for the guarding centres of these people. Mr President, at the last Council of Ministers we invited the Commissioner for Health to come to Greece and go to Mytilini and the islands. The fact that there was indifferent evidence that the governments have never called on the people in Europe and the Commissioner responsible for Health to come to see the reality, the effort made by the Greek state and the costs they have to pay to respond to this problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u101	Minister, please have you spoken for six minutes already. I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u103	Be well, Minister. Next and last for today's topical question for a second cycle is the seventh under No 348/15-6-2015 of the MP Chios of the New Democracy. Panagiotis (Noti) Mitaraki - who left us from the 1st Athens thanks to the Chios myrobul - to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, on the adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision (KYA) on the settlement of outstanding issues of the Municipal Council for Water and sewerage of Chios Island (DEEAN). Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, under Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure. 4316 issued on December 24, 2014, the Greek Parliament regulated issues of outstanding debts of the Municipal Bank of Water and sewerage companies in Greece - one of which was Chios - on loans concluded with the European Investment Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Article 80, firstly, provided for the regulation of these debts, secondly, the deletion of fines, thirdly, the direct provision of tax information and, fourthly, provided that by joint ministerial decisions of your Ministry and the Ministry of Interior all further matters necessary for the implementation of this article would be dealt with. Then a question of interpretation was raised, when the competent economic tax office of Mytilini did not accept the concept of tax information - despite the fact that expressly provided for, in the view of authorised legal persons, in paragraph 2 of Article 80 - and asked as a prerequisite for the existence of this CSR. This CSCE has therefore become urgent. On February 18, the Municipal Operation of Chios wrote to you and the Minister of Interior. On 3 April I tabled a written question and you were kind enough to answer that you are at the end of the process of adopting this joint ministerial decision. In particular, in your letter, you state that he is in the process of processing from the Ministry of Interior as regards the finalisation of the debts and the determination of the limit that each company is able to repay. Because we have reached the end of June, and because there is a serious issue with the lack of fiscal information - the accounts of the DYANS have been committed and do not allow it to pay its suppliers, one of which is PPC, and there is a risk that the current will be stopped and, consequently, the water supply of Chios will be stopped - the question arises whether this FYROM, Minister, will be issued shortly. I hope your answer will be that she's ready for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, Mr Mitaraki, KYA is almost ready to sign. Why are we late? Because the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue expressed some views, some comments and we must take them into account. As you see - and you have, of course, much more experience than I do - this bureaucracy created by laws that are often not entirely precise, is reflected in this particular case. The issue that Chios faces was not dealt with by other municipalities, because there the DU accepted the fact that this debt could be repaid from resources not coming from the General Accounting Office of the State, such as the CFP. In other words, there was a problem of interpretation. We are trying to resolve this and give an exact joint ministerial decision. We think that in a short time it will be solved. Let me remind you, of course, that the whole story begins in 1980. These loans were then approved. In 2007, the government entered a process of arrangements, which provided for a clear way of repaying these loans received by the municipalities, in the context of the money provided by the European Investment Bank. Things complicated in 2012, when this well-known account was made, the CFP. In other words, when it was decided to pay the municipalities from the Central Self-Resources, there was a involvement. This involvement was intended to be solved two years later, with this law and we are now in the process of resolving the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u108	I am pleased that the issue has been resolved for all JHA except Chios. I am sorry as a Member of Parliament who has left the only island that is currently facing this essential problem, a problem that arises from the interpretation of the law. In our view, paragraph 2 is clear, in our view, that tax information is instant when the law is published. He didn't accept this court department of Mytilini. You realise that if DEEANH resorts to the courts, we will simply lose some years and will not solve the problem. I am pleased that you are in the mood to deal with this because, Minister, unfortunately since January, islands have been facing further problems. We all know that a double blow to VAT on the islands is being prepared to abolish the reduced rate, and at the same time that many products will go from a low rate to the highest. And for the islands this is a double blow. And we haven't heard so far if there's a provision for a transport equivalent. Has Mr. Varoufakis said he will pay the VAT back to the residents? And that is, of course, the blow to competitiveness is great, because tourism will avoid islands that have an expensive cost. Chios - it's not your responsibility - lost 4 million from the NSRF, lost the Foreign Language Department of Shipping from the Ministry of Education. In Chios, unfortunately, from January until today, we have heard only bad news. A positive message has not come. Minister, the completion of this issue, in order to help the DEEANH continue to provide water, will be a positive signal. I hope it happens soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr Mitarakis for self-discipline in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u110	Always.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u111	Minister, you have the floor. And because I have heard you say that you are a technocrat and not a politician, please become more specific about "the CYA is almost ready". What do we mean 'nearly'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u112	"Actually ready" means that we've taken the six-page of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue and we're trying to incorporate the remarks so that there's no problem anymore with any other interpretation. This is the 'nearly' one. "About" means that we are in a process of processing the hexapage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u113	I'm saying time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u114	We believe that in the next fort we will be done. As regards, of course, the positions on the negotiations and the position of the islands, etc., it is not a question of talking about it now, since the negotiations are running. But do not see the part of a negotiation. Let us see the whole of a negotiation. As far as competitiveness is concerned, I come a little back in my past. Competitiveness is not only determined by prices but also by the quality of services and products supplied. If we lose somewhere in price, we can gain ground in quality. You see countries that are extremely expensive - and they are not expensive because of VAT, but because of the extremely expensive provision of services - they are slapping by tourists and countries that are too cheap, not having tourists. Therefore, the only element linked to the attraction of tourists, I repeat, is not prices, but there are other determinants, which we need to take into account if we are faced with a problem alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Minister. [[To enter page 101a, b]] Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We interrupt until 13.00, in order to continue in plenary, according to yesterday's decision, with the roll-call vote on the draft law on citizenship. I thank my colleagues in the Chair, the workers in the Greek Parliament for the cooperation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK All ladies and gentlemen will be asked to sit in their seats so that we can start the roll-call vote. The discussion on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction has been concluded: "Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Greek citizenship - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting the Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on a single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’. The principle of the draft law has been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Democracy whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u117	I would remind you that according to Rule 72(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, roll-call vote is to be taken when an application signed by 1/20 of the total number of Members, i.e. at least 15 Members. At the end of the debate on this matter, in this case the start of the debate on the bill is the name of the signatories. If the required minimum number of Members present by the signatories is not completed, the application shall be deemed not to have been submitted. If the minimum number of signatories is found to exist, the meeting shall be interrupted and a statement shall be made at the premises of the House. The sitting shall be resumed 10 minutes after the announcement. There are twenty-fifths of the Members who have signed the treaty. We did a quick reading yesterday. The list is now being read. Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Here you go. Mr. Georgios Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis. Here you go. Mr. Blacky Voridis. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides. Here you go. Mr. George Stylus. Here you go. Mr. Christos Bukouros. Here you go. Mr. Stavros Kalafatis. Here you go. Mr Stefanos Gikas. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Davakis. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Tasoulas. Here you go. Mr. Emmanuel Consolas. Here you go. Mr. Timoleon Cocksucker. Here you go. Mr. Charalambos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure of signatories to request a roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. There wasn't a single woman. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Until the roll-call vote begins, to be more organised in the process, the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Ziannas, will be here on the left. If there are any colleagues who are insurmountable and wish to be promoted, taking into account that this delays the overall process - so please only for insurmountable impediments - they will inform Mr Zanna, who will sit here. Meanwhile, Mr. Psychogios will be on the list from SYRIZA and Mr. Kefaliannis from New Democracy. We interrupt for ten minutes to start the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the quarter has been completed and the adjourned session is repeated. The roll-call vote requested on the principle of the draft law will now be held: "Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Greek citizenship - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting the Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on a single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’. They have already been called on the list and have taken up their positions in Thessalonica by SYRIZA MEP George Psychogios and the Member of the New Democracy and Secretary of the Parliament, Mr Giannis Kefaloyannis, who will read the list under Rule 72, par. PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Vassilis Tsirkas is in the position of Mr Zanna, the other Secretary of Parliament, Mr Vassilis Tsirkas, in which, if there is or arises, you will declare it so that we can go faster. These are three colleagues who have asked to take the lead. In accordance with Article 72(6): The recipients of the bill in principle will say 'HAI'. Those who fail to accept the bill in principle will say 'OH'. Refusing votes shall declare ‘APPROVAL’. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure - we already have twenty-two letters of this kind - which make their vote known at the beginning of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u119	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you here that they have come to the Bureau and letters stating the intention of voting, which are not counted. This letter has been sent to us by Mr Kostas Scandalidis, Member of the PASOK, with protocol number 2554 on 25-06-2015, and he is aware that because he is obliged to be absent and cannot be present at today's sitting, please ask us to inform the House that the roll-call vote that will take place in favour of it. Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, MP in Thessaloniki, by letter, which has received a protocol number 2584 on 25-06-2015, informs us that due to an insurmountable obstacle it is impossible to attend the session of the Parliament and the roll-call vote that will take place on 25 June 2015 and that it would vote NO. Mrs Sophia Vultetour's letter, which has received a protocol number 2585 on 25-06-2015, informs us that due to an insurmountable obstacle she is unable to attend the roll-call vote and would vote NO. And Mrs Helena Rapti by letter, which has received a protocol number 2587 on 25-06-2015, informs us that due to an insuperable obstacle (disease) she is unable to attend the roll-call vote that will take place on 25 June and would vote NO. None of these lettering notifications shall be counted as a vote because it does not fall under those recorded and recorded. I would like to say that it is likely that there has been some misunderstanding with the letter from Mrs Maria Kollia-Charuchha, referring to a mission from Parliament abroad. I assume he's on a government mission abroad. Well, let's just make it clear that we're guys all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask my fellow Members on the list, given that the procedure has been completed and the roll-call vote is adjourned, to count the votes, so that we can announce the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 267 Members voted. On the basis of the draft law: 'NAH', 172 MPs voted. 'OH' they voted 91 MPs. ‘PARON’ 4 Members voted, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u123	Consequently, the bill: "Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Nationality - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on a single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the debate on the articles will be scheduled for next week. We now have a Conference of Presidents to plan it. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-25-S1-commons.u124	With the consent of the House at 14.41' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 26 June 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
