ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Emerging measures to tackle violence in sport and other provisions". The Bureau's proposal is to proceed with the debate, including in this debate the rest of the ten colleagues left to speak in principle, along with those who will be written to speak in the second part, in the debate in question. This can be done on condition that the House agrees to do so...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u3	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u4	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. There have been colleagues who say that we should proceed with the pretext procedure. The Bureau's proposal says that we should have this merger so that we do not go too late again today. If there is a objection, however, I have to put the proposal to the House. I therefore propose that the House vote on whether or not we agree to join the list of speakers, that we enter the second part of the debate, and that we consider that the Members who have been written to speak in principle and who have not been able to speak, should then have a tolerance from the Bureau for more time. Does the House agree to move on like this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u5	The House has agreed. Good. Thank you very much. Before we proceed to the debate, Mr Brutsi and Mrs Liberaki have asked for the floor. Because you are aware, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Brutsi and Mrs Lyberakis, that the time limits are obviously too narrow, please take the floor for two minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Brutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it took about a hundred days and three and a half months of government from the SYRIZA and ANEL party, and after the successive reunifications, as they call them - or commonly assembled - and the vows of honour and denouncing speech against the new Republic and the previous government, we now have a common communiqué between the Greek Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker. So this text reveals the great deception of the Greek people once again. So far we have known about the deception it had to do with the election commitments, announcements about HNVIA, the 12,000 tax-free, on the issues concerning the debt haircut, but the great resistance, the left resistance to the memorandum and the assessment of the fifth, which you violently interrupted. Well, Mr President, with today's joint communiqué the government reveals that it continues the fifth assessment, just as the previous government left it. In fact, it opens the way by cutting red lines both on employment and on insurance issues. It is interesting to hear the Government's view on this particular text, so Mr Army, who has given oaths of honour to a clause of zero deficits of justice and households, on labour relations, which are in the joint communiqué, all these great lies and fairy tales that have been telling the Greek people for three and a half months. That is what I have to say, Mr President. We see it on the positive side that the government at last comes to the field of realism. But it is necessary to tell the Greek people a great apologies for the lies, hypocrisy and deception so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, the big question of negotiating the government is centered on all of us, but I would like to ask that we keep a little tight on this bill that we are discussing. Honestly, I hope we're a little more steadfast. Mrs. Liberaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to say two things. The first is that to some point in Mr. Theocharis' speech, I thought he would then say "and so a bad speech is evolving", which implied it, but it was obviously not a success of the effort. His farewell suggestion, however, "give no advice to your colleagues and to the other ministers" I think that was what he might show his true mood towards what you do and what we've been discussing for so many days. So speaking of the counsel, it seems that you have already given it the advice. I'm also tempted to say just a word about the public communiqué. I am very sorry that the way in which the New Democracy colleague puts it is read half of it. I think that the two main good news is that, in the matters of insurance and labour affairs, on the basis of the communiqué, there must be the three main objectives of each: and fair insurance and financial sustainability, because if it is not financially viable, no one will get a pension, but at the same time ensure people from poverty to the third age, because otherwise it makes no sense to have it, and in employment relations and wages that they must support the economic capacity to create jobs, because having a good situation for a few and many unemployed does not make sense and also to stimulate competitiveness and the position of workers. I think this is really a great gesture of moving towards easier agreement. New Democracy is not right, which says that it has done so far, because neither sufficient nor justice were available for insurance interventions. And at work they were so problematic and fragmented, that they did not have time to pay. Therefore, instead of rejoicing, it is better to facilitate the process of understanding, because that is what the Greek people expect from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs Theocharis, and also for clarifying, because we all have a bit of a touch on the speech by Mr Theocharis, and I, too, knowing the position and attitude of his party on this bill. In any case, the clarification was necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law. I propose that articles be discussed as a unity. I would remind the House that the debate on the articles and the vote on the articles is carried out in turn and in accordance with Rule 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 102(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure, inclusion in the list of speakers in the debate may be requested from the beginning of the debate on this Rule until the end of the speech of the fourth in turn. Records made after the end of the speech of the fourth speaker and until the conclusion of the originals of each article shall apply only as a secondary one, which shall be given by the abbreviations referred to in paragraph 3 of this Rule 102(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Right of dentistry in the Article has only those who have taken the lead and if they so request by the end of the phase of dentistry of each article. The pleas in law referred to in Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure are governed by Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. We have reached agreement on the procedure and the list of speakers. Members who have not been able to speak in the first debate shall be included in the single list with those Members who are present from now on for the debate on the subject and who will be given prior notice by the remaining Members, since of course we shall make progress to the rapporteurs and the special speakers. In SYRIZA, my colleague, Mrs Panayota Dritsel, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u10	I think it's eight on the articles. So that we don't eat time from colleagues, I say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u11	Mrs Dritselli expressed an opinion, I think it is of interest to all of us, to limit the time of speeches by the special speakers and the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u12	Not eight, Mr. President. At least ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u13	Ten minutes, yeah. We must not go to the fifteen so that Members can speak. Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli, for the offer. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u14	Be well. Dialogue is always useful, although at one time in this Chamber I do not think that this fact is understood. So by listening today to the positions of all the parties and all the wings, I suddenly felt that I was living a déjà vu. I'm sorry about the expression. They have been back in the past week when the Ministry has tabled the bill, we have the first meeting in the committee and I hear exactly the same arguments, as if we did not hold meetings all day, as if we did not consult the bodies, as if we did not meet with the UEFA representative, as if nothing changed in the bill and not even much more especially did the Civic Dispute Ask us to take it back again. These things are not serious, ladies and gentlemen. We need to take a look at this. And if we could generally summarise the picture or content of the debate today, I could say that the title would be Tempora o mores. It is not possible to consult, discuss with institutions, discuss with international organisations and Europeans, and at the end of the day what remains to be an incredible risk that, all of a sudden, Greek football will be expelled from the European Championships. Where does that come from? I do not understand where it is that we have no confidence in what the Minister responsible for sport has brought, that he allegedly does not assume his responsibilities, that he does not know what is going on and what risks these changes may have, and that all the others who criticise you can consider all these responsibilities and that you are interested in Greek football or Greek sport except the Minister responsible. First of all, the fact that his word is questioned and that the Minister has been in agreement with the international organisations, UEFA and FIFA, is in itself an unacceptable event. I am sorry to say this, but there can be no question of the reason and what has been agreed by the Greek Government with another authority. I think you should rethink this, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the Staff Regulations. On the other hand, you say that this bill does not deal with violence. We have explained too many times - and I did not think I would say it again today in plenary - that this bill did not come to deal with the very great, the acceptable problem to everyone - because that is, at least, the only one we agree on - of violence and not just on the stadiums and not just on football. This bill came to meet emergency needs to combat violence on the stadiums. This is an emergency. And it is not a comprehensive bill with which we will deal with the very big, huge, sometimes insurmountable problems faced by Greek sport at the moment. I think that the Minister has already explained the reason this morning why the Ministry very promptly proceeded with these interventions, which we all agree is a drop in the ocean in what needs to be done. It is, however, a positive intervention, which we must all welcome in terms of content, but also in terms of the Government's intentions. We have heard the views of all the parties, in relation to the bill, and I have truly been apologizing for the style - with the approaches of some who appear to be successful in the arguments of well-known bodies that do not want to change anything in Greek football and professional sport. All those present as king-in-laws must know - I hope, after so many days of understanding, have understood - that they cannot and will not pave the difficult path that the government has taken - I think Mrs Christophilopoulou said to the Minister - nor to the slightest. Mr. Kontonis and all those on the side of the government have made it clear all these days that the state is determined to put the knife on the bone and break the abscession of corruption and violence that is now dominating. That was the framework - if you remember well, especially the rapporteurs of the parties that were together at the meeting with Mr Infantino - all meetings with the European and international players. Let us stop, even now, those who are dispersing unfounded speculations. The international football players are on our side and they fully support us. Others, who obviously don't like them, can be considered. This logic of institutional shielding of professional sport from the pathogens, which have been afflicting him for years, is today that some are disturbing. This bill introduces huge and substantial changes, and these changes will be guaranteed, however much as some continue to fight them rabies. They must be aware that UEFA itself has demonstrated that it supports the Greek Government with all its powers to implement this draft law until antenna. For that very reason, perhaps some people are trying today to move the "circuit" from what old today begins to die. The same is true of all the negotiations - we have heard this before - that the Greek Government is conducting. And that's why? Because, in our view, there is an attempt to resurrect the political crash and so try to plunge the country's own course. This is not going to be accepted by us. And because a number of inaccuracies have been heard that the Minister has allegedly done some shit, which is, of course, in the opposite direction to the other criticism that we hear we are going to play 'Grexit', so they are not based on any logic, the state's view of the matter has been fully understood and accepted. I will not go in, because I do not want, again, in the reports - I think Mr Kontonis also did it - for what changes have been made and what changes have been made in the articles. What has to stay, especially towards the state, is that what this bill does is create a framework for protecting professional sport at all levels. On these issues, the state negotiated and achieved a large and highly successful agreement. Greek sport returns within the framework of legality and its implementation will make a decisive contribution to its protection. Those who are trying to hurt the state, but also the government in this matter, know that they have against them, not SYRIZA, but the whole society. In this bill we call and insist that we call on all the democratic wings of the Parliament to put aside any micropolitical conflicts and support the efforts of the Greek state. Not to attempt to cash political capital, to undermine progress and to mortgage the will of the Greek people. We have mentioned many of the radical provisions of the bill and its articles, which not only were there issues from international organisations, but they were those that asked for their implementation. I would remind you that the Ministry's intention, as well as the intention of the international organisations UEFA and FIFA, are in the same direction. The issues that afflict Greek sport, which unfortunately are not the only ones - are happening everywhere, perhaps not to the same extent, to the lesser or greater - and from all the institutions and from all the wings, as far as I remember, were condemned and we all said that an answer must be given immediately, one solution, even a hand of assistance, to all these people who are trying to push these phenomena. If some people attempt, with leafy legislative improvements, to pave the way to the state, we can again say that this attempt will fall into the void. The Government and SYRIZA continue the great effort that began for substantial reforms and radical reconstruction of Greek sport. In this effort we all know that we have allies and the citizens, but also those bodies who wish to protect sport from those who are currently rampant. To sum up, I should like to conclude by saying that the government is tabling a first proposal to tackle violence in sport. This effort will be followed by others and will be alarmed by the dangerists. The interventions of the government and the state will apply to the absolute extent, because no one can stop society and the democratic changes that they want. Our aim is, at last, to change all those bad texts which have led to the present situation and we will succeed. We support the government's efforts at all levels, namely the State Secretary for Sports, Mr. Kontonis. We welcome his work at negotiation level, but also at the level of efficiency, and of course we are happy to vote in favour of this draft law in principle and on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u15	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Association - Golden Dawn informs us that in today's agenda sitting on the agenda: only debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Emergency measures to deal with violence in sport and other provisions", defines as special speaker, MP I, Thessaloniki, Antonio Gregos and as Parliamentary Representative, Serres Artemio Matthaopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Stavros Kontonis has asked for the floor. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government has today been subjected to an unjust and passionate attack by the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative. And I have asked - precisely for that reason I have delayed speaking - the full text of the joint declaration by the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker and the Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic. Greater distortion and falsification, I am telling you, I have not heard in this Chamber of a statement by a Greek Prime Minister and indeed a joint statement by a European official. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, is the statement on the fifth evaluation? The assessment is made, in relation to the reform package submitted by the Greek Government, and that is why the debate is taking place. This corpse of the fifth evaluation, which you want on a permanent basis to bring into the political life of the country, understand it, is over. If something today is being discussed by the Greek Government, it is discussing the reforms which it has proposed to the European Union. And be careful here what your big problem is. You do not understand or want to hide - the second is more likely - that against this tactic of the Greek Government and what was agreed on 20 February - that is, the Greek Government is proposing dominating reforms, which it feels it can confirm in practice and which it itself wants to propose - you have to compare Hardouveli mail. There's your big problem. On the one hand, it is what has been dictated to you and on the other hand it is what the Greek Government proposes and wants to do. So that's the first. Secondly, it refers to the joint declaration: 'The need for wage developments and labour market institutions to play a supporting role in job creation, competitiveness and social cohesion'. What is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, in these parameters in the joint declaration? So you don't want social cohesion? Obviously, you didn't want it for two and a half years, because the Greek society was destroyed and it fell into Kaidas. It is also obvious that for two and a half years we have seen no job creation. On the contrary, we have seen the opposite effect of your policy. Youth unemployment reached 63% and 30% of total unemployment. And are you disturbed by what the Greek Government is now fighting and even recognised as objectives by the European official Mr. Yunger? Ladies and gentlemen, look. You can make any criticisms to the government. We shall listen to it in the context of parliamentarianism. We must listen and take note. One thing, however, is absolutely certain. You have great anxiety and great anxiety if this government finally reaches an agreement. Because if this government reaches an agreement, then all the structure that you set up more than two and a half years - because I catch the previous ones in this case - is being irritated and misappropriated. What was that? That we couldn't do anything else, that was a one-way road, that was the margins, and you tell us you're going to renegotiate, you're going to make a hole in the water. So that's stress. That the renegotiation is done here and once it's done, what do you say every time? "Get back, you don't do anything."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u17	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u18	I shall conclude, Mr President. So understand it. This government and it renegotiates and poses the major and serious problems of the Greek society, which the European institutions now accept. And you have no doubt that this government will reach an agreement that benefits the Greek people and the Greek society. Be absolutely sure. And this, literally, is the grave of a two and a half year policy that you have followed, of the one-way policy. The one-way, however, ended on January 25th and there is no return! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Koukodemos, has the floor for ten minutes and I would ask him for time consistency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u20	I will be briefer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u21	Thank you very much. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u22	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that my dear colleague, Mrs Dritzelli, has been raped to tell us that there is agreement on the other side, namely with the international federations. I will therefore inform you that I have taken in my hands and will submit to the Minutes of the House the letter sent to the President of the EBRD a moment ago, which Mr Infatinos says that in the disputed provisions and on the basis of the legislative interventions made by the Minister and in Article 5, but also in Article 15, he leads our country outside the world. I'm presenting it for the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Koukodemou, presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He's been to you from what I see in your mail, Minister. They do not accept any intervention at all in what you agreed, which is clearly and ultimately that you did not agree. Before we actually enter into the debate on the articles, I should like to say once again that with the representatives of the international federations, the Government, for fear of the accident, agreed to a specific procedure - so you said - that the revised draft law should be sent to UEFA and FIFA in order to express, definitively and irrevocably, their agreement or their disagreement with what this entails and that you received the letter. We have insisted at the very first moment that we should find the golden incision through consultation, and only through it, so that it does not inevitably lead to isolation and marginalisation of Greek football with all its consequences, both economic and sporting. There has been a painful process, which we have all followed, in order to reach the final point today 'nearly five', and again there is no agreement, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen, in the procedure prior to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we have tabled our views on each of the articles separately. In many of them we agreed, in others we asked for some changes. We have tabled our objections, our disagreements, to certain articles, as I shall analyse them below. For Article 1 of the bill, which refers to disciplinary penalties and fines, we have said from the outset that we disagree. But you have given us some very adequate explanations, Mr Minister, and that is why we shall vote on this particular article. In Article 2, which concerns electronic ticketing and electronic surveillance, we stressed that its implementation is imperative. We believe that, together with the tightening of penalties, the image of Greek fields will be quite different. Furthermore, Giorgos Orphanos also provided for this by Law 1479/2006, but some technicians and perhaps economic reasons did not allow for its implementation. With a phrase, this particular article, I believe it will also bring great discipline to the Greek courts. We agreed on all the issues relating to fan clubs. So Article 3 is being voted on, Minister. We agreed on Article 4, which provided for provisions of the Criminal Code for the execution of criminal offences, for racist behaviour and for violence. We will not vote on Article 5 after the developments which I see will be very bad with regard to the ordinary judges and their three-year term. In Article 6 and 7 we have told you that we have no objection and we will vote on it. The necessary clarifications were made there and we agreed on the new framework set by the Minister. Even in the IAEA, which we had objectioned and we said that it is a committee that operates entirely consultatively and has no role, and that, as developed on your part, we are doing so and we will vote on it. Articles 9 and 10 concerning the operation of the services of the General Secretariat will also be voted on. For your Rule 11, we have said that after the improvements that have been made - and UEFA and FIFA have agreed that this procedure may, in any case, be in place for certificates of participation - we say yes. We are not voting on Articles 13 and 14, concerning the issues of education and, of course, on Article 15, which has not brought us a desirable result. It seems that we will not avoid unpleasant developments. I do not want to say that I am making you responsible, Minister. It's a very heavy conversation. I think that you should withdraw that part of the article for internal affairs, as well as withdraw it completely, because you may find a constitutional implosion, Article 5, so that we do not have any issue with the draft law on violence, because for your education I said that we will not vote on it. I'll say you'll think it over, see it. It is a very serious matter and we will be in a process which will not be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Antony Gregos has the floor from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Even now, at the moment that this debate is taking place, UEFA's letters come back and we really do not know what is going to happen. Before UEFA's letter was tabled, and we can't risk the future of both Greek sport and football. As far as the bill is concerned, we hope that no further amendments will come, because we are used to this. First of all, let me stress that, in the case of Articles 13 and 14 of the Ministry of Education - starting with the end - it was expected, of course, where we discussed the bill against violence, the Minister of Education intervened in these two articles and in fact a huge bill was tabled on the question of education in general and we denounced the whole urgency procedure to the committee. Twenty-five - thirty bodies - I do not remember exactly how many Members - were calling in bodies. This is the first time in a committee procedure. From what we've learned, he's coming to the debate on Friday. With regard to the sport bill, we consider the measures imposed superficially, sometimes unfairly and according to the judgement of any minister. We find a lack of understanding and cooperation with sports bodies, without condoning federations and unions. You have not yet stepped on any corruption phenomena or interplanetary phenomena. Remember here and the Olympic Games scandal. You do not fully and adequately clarify the self-government of the NCA and we are talking about Article 15. We do not believe that the incidents will be stopped by the vote on this bill, because the enormous social injustices have not been fought first. We consider aspirin measures against cancer. Unfortunately, sport is linked to economic gain and we are talking about betting, it's gambling, and as you know very well, it's no longer sportsmen are fighting for the olive branch. Recall that when the incidents began too many years ago, there were no clubs and there were no links, the fans went to the stadiums and suddenly grouped together and started the incidents. The responsibilities of the media are very great, as are journalists. This phenomenon has been said to be European, both in Italy and France and in Germany. I repeat again that this is a complex problem with political and social implications, causes and effects. With semimeters, corruption cannot be combated. Inequality and injustices exacerbate the problem, and it is the fuse that creates the explosion of this bomb in the field of sport. We have condemned and condemned violence, within and outside sports spaces. We have built up corruption and complexity. We have proposed measures to combat them. Unfortunately, the bill is incomplete and unclear. UEFA is coming back again and again, giving you instructions and actually tends to legislate, regardless of the contents of the letters. We are discussing such a serious bill, where the risk of Greece leaving the European football area is at stake. Even if it has been minimized, it is certainly not nullified and we are taking legislative improvements during the debate and even a few hours before the debate on the articles. It is important to check the financial data of groups and companies. I shall refer very quickly to the articles. For Article 1, we vote "on the one hand", because in attempting to strike violence you do nothing more than lead to economic extermination of the unions. To avoid the arrogant penalty, invite sports companies to a trial of sentences with the authorities. In order to benefit from the favourable treatment of the authorities, you are urging them to provide evidence of fans and persons whose participation in unlawful actions has not been established by justice. Any incapacity of the authorities, you ask the sports club to cover it. We are also voting against Article 2. Given your inability to control, through police forces, the safe conduct of racing, you impose strict electronic surveillance systems on facilities and a nominal ticket. And here we have to say that those who go to the field and take their minors and children will have to report the data of minors in a database, which we do not know who will manage. We are also voting against Article 3. While in all criminal offences, even the most heinous ones, the court takes into account the negligence of the perpetrator in the characterisation of the act and in the sharing of the sentence, you, in this bill, are giving the offence of making tickets from the clubs the dimensions of a felony. Come then and correct it by filling in the layout and take into account the intensity of the dome. This whole process proves the curiosity. Provisions that you should have formulated from the outset, because they are based on basic principles of criminal law and of procedure, you are ignoring them. We are also voting against Article 4. Obviously, anyone who has participated in the legislature of this bill has no idea from sports organisations and competitions. Because if he had attended a championship at national or European level once, he would know that competitions are taking place on day-to-day days, and therefore the imposition on the defendant of residence on weekends is of no importance. It should be noted that, when the sentence is imposed, the courts are accustomed to imposing an extra restrictive condition on the accused of appearing in the police department of the region during the struggle of the group that he stands for. And because we have also talked about racism, we consider it and we tell you again that it is completely unclear. We are voting against Articles 5 and 6. I think that you have taken behind Article 5, paragraph 5, on the compensation fee. These are the articles on disciplinary bodies. You're also talking about control of arbitrator property. We have not seen any control of the property situation of politicians, of some judiciary, of some great journalists so far. We are also voting against Article 7. It's about manipulation racing. We don't know exactly what you're trying to do here. Check the European and world federation? Since you want to limit the manipulation phenomena, what is the reason why you are limiting you are talking about football federation rather than about the others, such as basketball? We are also voting against Article 8. In periods of strict austerity and burden of the Greek strata, we believe that you should at least define and know already today what the level of compensation for the costs and costs of the Observers' House is, and the selection procedure we are also ignoring. Of course, IAB has upgraded, but still not enough. We are voting against Articles 9 and 10, as is Article 11. It is important that you give permissions to participate in the Olympic Games, but do not overlook this. They take place worldwide as important for the athlete, who improves his personal record, but also for the country's promotion. We are voting against Rule 12. We are also voting against Articles 13 and 14. These are the issues of pre-examination of pupils, additions to teaching hours, etc. We are voting against them, on the one hand, because they have absolutely nothing to do with the important issue of violence on the ground and, on the other hand, because the government had the opportunity, if it wanted, to bring the provisions along with those relating to universities and excellence, which the Minister for Education has wrongly intended to abolish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr Grego. Mr George Mavrotas from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I will start our remarks on the articles from the easiest and fastest issues and then go to the most important ones. Firstly, the report by the Scientific Office actually identifies a number of things that we, too, said as a River for this bill, namely that there is an ambiguity in Article 1, and that is where we would like to reintroduce our proposal, Minister, on the offences of sport violence, as referred to in Article 41(f). There is a detailed descriptive escalation and perhaps for this it would be useful to refer it there too. We would like there to be, as I have said in my protology, an explicit reference to inappropriate behaviour of sporting factors, such as a reference to the Spirit Friendship Committee. We would like to see the Minister, on the basis of the powers conferred on him by the bill and Article 1, if voted on, intervene on some unacceptable follow-up to the PSE and intervene in order to introduce some punishment. And we want to see if it's going to take action like this. I would also like to point out that the Council of Europe has a committee to combat violence, where each country is tabling reports on how things are going about violence in this country. It is characteristic that reports from Greece have been missing in recent years. I would like to point out this so that we can rejoin Europe's map on such issues, namely records of violence. With regard to Article 2, with supervisory instruments and their establishment at different stages, we have identified some problems that need clarification in the bill. In other words, who will bear the costs of the already established and who will be the cost of investment or the depreciation value that has been left since their establishment, if more than one of the organising authorities is at a stage and how it will be shared? Of course, it says in the bill that these decisions will be taken and in consultation with the Treasury, but that is something the organizing authorities should know about. In other words, it needs a little more detail at this point. I would also like to say about a legal intervention that has come today on pay permits, which says: 'Members of national teams participating in Olympic Games, pan-European struggles and world championships' and added the words 'or pre-national teams'. I think this will be problematic, because, on the one hand, the notion of the pre-national group does not exist, that is, they will be able to obtain a certificate from the Federation that they belong to the pre-national team that goes to the Olympic Games. That's where the national team goes. On the other hand, we need to know in general and have it in mind that when a beneficial measure is dismantled, it is abolished and, along with dry matter, the greens are burned. That is to say, those who really had it more - let's say it - need and deserve it more. So we need to see that concept of pre-national groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u27	I think it's mostly for the S.H.I.E.L.D. this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u28	No, it's generally reported. It is in the first sentence of paragraph 3. For LEADER it's the Champions' League. There's no objection. It is in Article 11, paragraph 3, as it starts in 23, that is to say, 'Article 34, paragraph 23...' and so on. reads: '...in active athletes and athletes members of national teams' and adds 'or pre-national groups'. There was also an amendment concerning the OIE and the staff in the OIE, and the second paragraph refers to horseholders. It provides for amateurs not to be considered as three horses, as they were before, but to go now to the five horses. Now, I have nothing to do with the horse race, to know how this amendment came about and exactly what it means. I don't know how he intruded into this bill of violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u29	It's an amendment. We are facing an extraordinary problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u30	Is it extraordinary to go from three horses to five for tax reasons?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u31	Yeah, there's a problem. I'll explain it to you later. Mrs. Valavani will be here to explain it to you. Well, there's a big problem with horse owners.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u32	They're too taxed. Okay. Let me go to Article 5 on the judges. While in the original report we had 'after five months', it was now in its last version 'after four months'. I'm talking about Article 5, about the ordinary judges. The first sentence...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u33	Because it's been a month, there's some evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u34	That's what I'm saying. So there's no question of that. As far as I understand it, UEFA is in Article 15 on the self-employed. The way it is formulated in its Greek version I think I understand what the problem is and which is actually identified, because it says "in view of the fact that the NCA manages its internal affairs independently, etc.". This can give rise to interpretations, because 'internal affairs', as we say, essentially refers to all organisations in their staff, that is to say that the NCA will be able to deal with its own internal affairs and staff affairs. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I therefore believe that this is the misinterpretation that is being made and that is why there is actually a reaction from UEFA. If we say instead of 'the internal affairs', 'the cases', I think that then there will be no problem, or if you will in some way clarify it in this text too. That is what I have to say in general. We are negative - I will repeat it - in Article 1. We believe that the rest of the articles are in a positive direction, of course, apart from the two articles, Article 13 and Article 14, concerning education, that is to say, the situation of the Bank, the general average of 9.5 for promotion, and the way in which the hours are to be filled without any prolongation of the school year. In Article 5 it appears that there is no problem. In Article 15 I think that if this 'international affair' leaves, i.e. 'internal affairs', which is of particular importance and can be misinterpreted, there will be no problem. That's what I had to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u35	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u36	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u37	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u38	Just because Mr Mavrotas mentioned it, I would like to say that he does not think that what we call 'internal affairs' - and we have explained and accepted it - has something to do with staff. It's about her own affairs. I would like to clarify this in Parliament, so that there is no misinterpretation. In fact, I am telling you that in the debate that we held, we expressed the view that it was not a cadet in a piece of legislation to refer to this 'her own assumptions' or 'cases', etc. It is a good thing that the 'internal affairs' is referred to. But I mean, it doesn't make any difference, it doesn't make any difference at all. We are talking about the assumptions of a legal person of private law, nothing more, nothing less. Since some link it to any government's intention to interfere with electoral law and arbitration, we state that these issues are purely self-government issues and if there is no preconsent and agreement, no one can go ahead. We are clarifying this, so that there is no doubt that what we agreed is what we included in the final text.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u39	Would you like, Mr. Mavrotas, one more minute to see something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u40	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u41	Here, please, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Contony, your explanations are very good. I think that if we look at 'internal affairs' in terminology in various organizations, it can mean other things and it can be misinterpreted. You're right. You've explained it now. But if it's printed on paper too, I think there'll be no problem then and it'll all be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u43	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u44	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u45	Mr Mavrotte, I'm telling you honestly that if the international federations want to keep English terminology, we don't have a problem. But sometimes you realize that in translation there may also be a discrepancy. That's what we explained to them and we didn't hear any arguments. That's the most interesting thing not to say another word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u46	Well, it's solved. The Member of the Communist Party, Mr Ioannis Giokas, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Before moving on to our position on the articles, I wanted to make a comment on what has been heard many times today and all the previous days and by government officials - not by the Minister - but also by Members of other parties, in relation to what is happening in other countries and what is the relationship between the other countries and Greece. The question that has been raised - and, possibly, people also - is about football, courtesy, because we are not like the other countries, namely Spain, France, England, etc. In our view, everyone who asks this question is ignorant of both the fields and what is going on abroad. Let me remind you that just a week ago, in the race of the Italian championship between Turin and Yuventus - not in any regional race, but in the country's first championship - there was an improvised bomb that broke out on Turin's fan platform, resulting in eleven fans being injured. A while ago, he was murdered outside the Naples fan's court. So is Spain. Fixed toy games and fixed toy assumptions exist in all countries, without exception. The only thing that the other countries may have succeeded is to transfer violence from the stadiums to the squares, the pubs, the neighborhoods, etc. But is that the issue? So, if the violence goes off the field and two blocks down? Those who believe this is a huge hypocrisy and have nothing to do with the fight against violence. So enough with this idyllic picture, described for the situation in professional football and professional sport in other countries. It's not like that. We do not say that, to say that since all of this is done in the rest of the countries, it should also be done in our own country. We say this to understand the deepest causes of such violent struggles in Greece, but also in all other countries. There is also a relevant question with which he says: do Greek businessmen not understand that it is also in their own interest to have a healthy product on Greek fields? They're so tight-headed? They don't care. They don't care. Because, in Greece it is so small the market that big profits come mainly from the black economy of football, from television rights, from UEFA's bet, laundry, piled up, than from whether or not the stadiums are filled. Didn't it surprise you that there was a lot of reaction to the subject of the online ticket and they preferred to play on empty fields than to place the online ticket? They don't care. They don't care. The capitalist market - so to speak, with the wooden language we use, but which is a reality - in Greece, it is so small that the basic profits come from other sources and that is why there are all these phenomena. That is why we are saying and insisting that the bad problem should be rooted out of its root - that is nameless and business activity in the field of sport - and not with measures, which are blockages or in any case, trying to deal with symptoms rather than cure disease. That's why we, once again, want to call the fans, those who really are indignant with a situation that exists in Greek football and have turned their backs, think beyond and beyond the limits that have been convinced that they have to exist. Outside this context that soccer means investor, businessman, big shareholder, big businessman. Oh, no. There could be quality football, with sight and without all of them. That's our opinion. In relation to the articles of the bill, Article 1 is to be voted on in spite of the comments we have, of course, by clarifying that the collection of fines - which are right for amateur sport - should in no way lead to a reduction in the regular grant to be received by federations in the field of sport. Because there has been a reality in recent years that the funds directed at sports federations and facilities and so on. We also agree in Article 2. In relation to Rule 3, it is what we have said in committee. Yes, although, the Ministry is trying in terms of the activity of certain associations - not all - to match this activity to the actual leaders of this activity in the administrations of the sporting public limited companies, it leads to a result that the clubs of fans only have the approval of the administrations of the AIFs. That is to say, a club, which is not pleasurable - to say so - in the administration of the relevant OEM or OEM cannot be approved and, in fact, lead to private armies, while this is supposed to be fought. In Article 4 we agree with the aggravating cases. We do not agree and have not been convinced by the debate that we had in the committee with the rules on the residence of one - in any case - of the defendant for whom there is a suspension of a penalty on weekends at home. In our view, this is inappropriate. This provision cannot be applied beyond the fact that other problems are created. One, that is, who has been accused and for which there is a suspension of execution of the sentence and who happens to be working on weekends, on the basis of this he will be staying at his house and will not even be able to go to his job? In our view, this provision is inappropriate beyond all logic. In Article 5, it remains our position that the draft law should remain in the original wording, which was in the text as formulated by the Committee on Morphic Affairs and not by the changes that are being made. In other words, regular judges who will result from a draw are the safest and most objective measure and not methods - even with lists - but the choice and definition will be made by the NCA or by anyone. Articles 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 are being voted on. As far as Article 12 is concerned, it is Article, Minister, which concerns coaches. Here, of course, the main problem - and that is why we are not voting for this article - is that there is a chaos and an uncontrolled situation as to who has the right to become a coach. He's replacing a face. But what is the basic framework? There's an uncontrolled situation. Here are schools that don't meet specifications...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u48	It's not Article 12.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u49	Isn't it 12?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u50	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u51	What is it? Is Article 12 not the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Professional Sports of the Secretariat-General? Isn't that what coaches are talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u52	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u53	In any case, I refer to this article. I might be wrong in numbering. But I am referring to this article. There is an uncontrolled situation with regard to coaches. Here, I would also like to make a link, Minister, to Article 15. Consider tomorrow's chance that you might want to make an intervention in establishing criteria for who can or may not be a football coach and that this uncontrolled situation does not exist. On the basis of Article 15, even in the version on internal affairs - I will say below, what our position is - on the basis of wording, you will find obstacles. UEFA will tell you "this is my internal business"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u54	...when autonomy applies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u55	We'll see. I wish you were right. I say, however, that they will, in this case, also refer to a possible regulation, the question of domestic affairs, which we are saying is this: here, we insist that the initial wording must be left. However, because we do not want, under any circumstances, to give an alibi to the current unacceptable regime and because, even with this provision, it is a bit better, despite the dangers that exist, we will vote for it, provided that it stays here and there will be no other amendment to Article 15. Heavy-heartedly we shall also vote for it with criticism. We think there will be problems, but in any case, because we do not want to create an alibi and because there seems to be a narrow atmosphere with some who do not vote for it, remain in the current regime, we say that we will vote on it. In relation to the amendments, I would like to say two words and I shall end, Mr President. It's a pity Mrs. Valavani is here. I am referring to the amendment on the Greek horse racing organisation. We have tabled an amendment to this issue, in our view more fully than is the case with regard to the following: Amendment 110/7 by the Ministry ensures part of the workers. It only ensures those workers, who are under contracts of indefinite duration and not those who did the same work with their colleagues, who were employed in this organization and who are under one day's contracts of work, who were hired this morning and made redundant at night, on the basis of a fusitive cutting law. It's Mr.598/1968. Our amendment therefore makes it clear that all workers, inclusive and exceptions, and workers who are under an indefinite contract of employment and those workers who are under a one-day contract who live this disgusting hostage, are included in the favorable regulation. Many of them are over fifty years old, and it is a question of whether they will be able to regain jobs. In this respect, we ask the government to accept our amendment. It is even more complete on the question of workers, but also on the question of the timing of the transfer, within ten days of the drafting of the bill. In relation to the other amendments, we also agree with the one concerning photoreporters and the other for athletes. Finally, Minister, I would like to make a comment because you have referred to the European institutions on the other subject of negotiation. Don't take the European institutions on board too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u56	(Secretary of State for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs): We are not taking them. I barely did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u57	Don't take them because European institutions are UEFA and you see what you're dealing with. You see what the approach of all this lobby is, and it is eulogy with this designation: even some measures, which are necessary, can prevent them or delay them or cancel them. Don't take the European institutions on board.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u58	(Secretary of State for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs): Don't say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u59	You took them with your location.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u61	(Secretary of State for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs): Mr President, I would like to announce the amendments that are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u62	Sure. Before I give you the floor, Minister, to say that the working issue raised by Mr Giokas is timely and you must see it sensitively, as is the issue that they raised to me, Mr Haikalis and Mr Teddy in the same region. Let Mrs Valavani hear it. Of those who are transported, ten or eleven, Minister, it is pre-pension, and I would ask that instead of being transported and troubled, they remain in the clearer, because in a few months' time the people you have been told are retired. Let's see that. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u63	(Secretary of State for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs): Mr President, the amendment with order number 5 is accepted. The first, the second, the third and the fourth have been withdrawn as late. That is a ministerial amendment. Parliament's amendments are accepted first and second. The third point, Mr Gioka, is to a large extent covered by the ministerial amendment. There is this issue, and Mrs Valavani will explain it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u64	No, Minister, it's not covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u65	The Ministerial Amendment comes to resolve an issue of the recognition of the contract indefinitely through an AEP or with final judicial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u66	Minister, please give them to be seen by the MPs to make a programming. Mr. Koukodimos, will you submit a request for a roll-call vote to the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u67	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u68	If you testify, we'll interrupt at 23:00. The House cannot stand a second post-mortem sitting. We'll be adjourned at 23:00, and after 12:00 tomorrow we'll be voting on the entire bill yesterday. We will continue with the Members who are staying, the parliamentary representatives and we will vote for the roll-call vote. I therefore suggest that we go by 23.00 with the MPs. All right, Mr. Kukodimo? You must consult, Mr. Petrako. The other groups too. Mrs. Christophilopoulou, Mr. Gioka, what do you think? Tomorrow, everyone who lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u69	You mean after tomorrow's parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u70	After 12:00 in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u71	He's got parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u72	Yes, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. And you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Golden Dawn, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u73	You spoke of a roll-call vote. Is there a request?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u74	It's already been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u75	I didn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u76	Yes, Minister. Mr. Koukodemos has already testified. That's why I put it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall thirty-seven students and students and three teachers attending from the 1st Aegean University Experimental School. We welcome you. Keep health and good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Paul Haikalis, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can certainly disagree with the initiatives that are needed and must be taken in the field of fines and penalties, as described in the first article of this bill. I shall, of course, disagree with the JRC's previous speaker on the money that should go to the federations. Why the feds? Why should they go to the federations and not to sports facilities? Why should they go to the feds uncontrollable? I would agree to go to federations, since these federations presented a project, some events anyway, which would indicate how money is used, which they take, and which go to some particular purpose. Unfortunately, however, this cannot be done. And that should be taken seriously by the state. We should also see the regime governing the electronic supervision of sports facilities - I think we all agree - and the issuing of an electronic ticket referred to in Article 2. After all, the relevant laws already exist, they simply do not apply. A positive approach is also the initiative to ban ticketing to clubs that operate illegally. This is a measure which will assist the entire process of monitoring people who are monitoring the struggles and making the work of police authorities easier if they need to find those involved in unfair actions immediately. So, clearing up the legal framework and showing zero tolerance, we are opening the way for a fair and transparent system that ensures that sporting events are conducted as smoothly as possible, while applying safeguards that are in the interests of fans and clubs. The above measures are part of a more general context of prevention of violence, which is not yet available in the field of sport. We can, however, go further than that, in ways that give police officers, for example, the power to oversee technical surveillance equipment - the cameras - on the ground so that they can intervene in advance by preventing situations. The provisions of Article 4, which deal with the stricter penalties for particular risk of offences, which I believe will dissuade those who are considering creating problems during sporting events, are positive. With regard to the issue of the consortium between the Government, UEFA and FIFA, it is undeniable that the NCA does not function as it should be. The proof of this is that, although the problems are time-consuming, unfortunately, they have remained unresolved for too many years. The point is, however, that the issue must be dealt with in such a way that Greek football does not find itself in complete isolation, which, not only will not solve the issues of violence and corruption, but rather, will magnify them. The provisions for the control of arbitrators’ assets referred to in Article 6 of this Agreement shall continue to be positive. Although it is likely that it does not contribute to the maximum, since there are several ways to overcome the stumbling block of control by the scientists. I believe, however, that this article will be a powerful lever for the self-reliance of arbitration, which - let us not hide - has been affected and is a tank of complaints and complaints at regular intervals in recent years and is perhaps the biggest problem for me, perhaps, in the great injustice, which prevailed in the courts and which actually evaporates the menstruation of fans against all actors and fellow athletes and athletes and fans. Regarding the provisions to prevent betting: it certainly moves in a positive direction, although a more complete grid of measures and control systems should be developed immediately, since it is rare to have reports on suspects in competitions before a sports event takes place. Particularly important initiative by the Government is the upgrading of the already important role of the IAEA achieved through the provisions of Article 8, as are the provisions of Article 9 aimed at more efficient operation of the General Secretariat of Sports. Furthermore, one of the major issues of merit, which is trying to resolve this draft law, is the introduction in Article 11 of an obligation to present a claim before the Committee on Professional Sports a certificate of repayment or settlement of debt in order to ensure that the debts are settled and to issue a certificate of participation in the respective championship. In closing, we are in favour of Articles 12, 13 and 14, although we have reservations, which we mentioned as Independent Greeks, in committee regarding the occupations, the loss of teaching hours and the replacement of them. With regard to Article 15, it is the fifth legacy of this draft law, while maintaining the independence of the NCA, stressing the need to harmonise decisions, the current provisions of the Constitution, the current legislation and the regulations of the World and European Federation for Football. But... There is this 'but'. This is where we reach a key point, Minister. Oh, the Minister's not here. All right, it's human. As I mentioned in the original report, this is a positive draft law, the articles of which we support. We are also awaiting the next bill by the Minister, which will highlight the implementation of a package of measures, which will have as its main objective the addition of additional safeguards, which will address the phenomena of violence and of general decency of sports events and events - the prevention of illegal betting and, in general, the exemplary punishment of those involved in such illegal and convicted actions. I have said all this before, to explain that it is a positive bill. It is a bill, which can be very clearly accepted by the majority. There may be many reservations, but I understand that they are in a positive direction. I would, however, like to ask the Minister, on the issues of disagreement that we have as government partners and which are very important to us. I accept and it is the obligation of any Greek Member, whatever party, to embrace and be forced to embrace the Minister's certificate, namely that the agreement reached with the other parties - with the international organisations, with UEFA and FIFA - has been fully understood by all parties and that their positions and opinions have been vindicated through this agreement and that a compromise has been reached. Mr Minister, of course, we accept this view.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u78	If you say any more now, that's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u79	Here's the thing now. I told you, I am a Greek Member - forget that we are government partners - in Parliament and I receive a letter, which says that while we have agreed everything as it was in the letter of 2 May, we learn astonished...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u80	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u81	Don't interrupt. The speaker keeps going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u82	...some changes have been submitted to the Greek Parliament today. In our letter of 2 May, which was written by you and accepted by UEFA, there are now several differences. It comes the message that reads: ‘Any differentiation from FIFA and UEFA's joint proposals could be considered to be infringing the principle that all FIFA and UEFA federations must regulate your cases, regardless of and without the influence of third parties’. I come right now and tell you that the "Grexit" of football is obvious. And can I tell you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u83	The bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u84	Wait a minute, Mr. Yakumato. It's none of my business if the teams come out only, which concerns me. To leave Greece - and every national of Greece - in all sports and to find themselves out of races is something that I cannot tolerate as a Greek fan, as a Greek citizen and as a Greek MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u85	There's Zimbabwe, we're not alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u86	If that's your dummy, Mr. Yakumato...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u87	Outside of the racing is Zimbabwe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u88	Go on, Mr. Haikalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u89	Whatever. So the point is that I am at the moment in a great dilemma, because all these amendments and all these agreements are not reflected in the bill, which we have today in our hands. That is why, with great grief, we reserve the roll-call vote tomorrow for what we are going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr Haikalis. Mrs Christophilopoulou, a special speaker from the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, has the floor. Then the Minister will just take the floor, Mr Kourakis, and then we will go to the Members' list. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to make one or two general comments before entering the articles. We followed just before a controversy between the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, and the Minister, Mr Kontonis, which was about the greater risk, not the risk of the Grexit of the Greek football, but a wider risk of the country staying in Europe and the Eurozone. Here, for our part, we want to point out: we are somewhat indifferent to whether it is the fifth evaluation or whether it is the assessment of the list of reforms. What matters now is that there is finally a deal. An agreement means negotiation, mutual retreat, both of our partners and of our partners, honest concessions, and there is no, Minister, any Greek government that wanted to put society across. You're living it now. I started my first speech at first by saying that I regret that you are a diligent and not a supplier. If we are currently under threat of a possible 'Grexit', I despise it. Mr. Koukodimos filed the letter from UEFA. I am very sorry about this last letter. I believe in what you have said and I believe in your intentions. You, as you say, may not believe in ours, but we're a little different. We do not want to believe that no Member of the Greek Parliament, at least the constitutional democratic arch, wants to change the conditions that will make it difficult either the wider issue of the country itself and its European perspective or the individual issue we are discussing now, which is the international and European presence of Greek sport and not just Greek football, in the international forums. That being said, Minister, I will call on you again and I would ask you to make it clear to us if that is your last word on the articles in question put by UEFA and FIFA. On the substance, we have agreed on two things. We have agreed that the provision relating to Article 15 which prescribes the self-employed of the NCA must comply with the Greek Constitution, but also with the regulations of UEFA and FIFA. That's what we agreed. Your initial phrase and the printing in the bill found us in agreement and later there was the problem from UEFA. I ask you: are you now prepared to assure the Greek Parliament in view of the vote that this arrangement, as we bring it, will be acceptable? Because I think we can all agree that we need to have the teams in and above all our national teams - I will agree here with Mr Haikalis - to play outside. But so do all our groups. It's not bad. At the same time, however, we should also have the tools so that we can intervene where we have to intervene, as a state, and not in the self-employed. We therefore have a reservation on Article 15. After these general positions, I also begin to explain to the articles, Minister. I shall also withdraw Rule 5, because this is an article in which we have some reservations, as we have in committee. I think you have made an effort to make a serious effort to reconvene consultation on the issue of ordinary judges. We have told you from the outset that we are in agreement with your initiative for ordinary judges, but this must be accepted by the NCA and the judicial authorities. That is why we can do everything we can together, all the parties together - you mean me now - and not only within this House institutionally, but also outside this Assembly politically. We have to do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u92	It says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u93	I know it says so. What I would like to point out to you, and what our parliamentary representative has pointed out to you, is that, as is the provision for the choice of ordinary judges, we may have to see, at least now, in the ninth place, what the Ice Bay Court says about it and its constitutionality. You accept it, too. That will ensure you. Perhaps the President, who is a leading lawyer and professor, can help us in this direction. It is a big deal to have Article 5, which is strong and which is why we will be keeping reservations until the last minute. Also, another article - I am always talking about the sport bill - in which we have a reservation, and it is very likely that we will vote 'at present' or against it, is Article 1, not because we do not appreciate the improvement you have made, Minister, both on our own proposal and on the proposals from other groups. Article 1. is very improved. As I said before, we agree in the broadest sense that there are stronger administrative sanctions, yes, but not superpowers, and above all in two directions: one concerns the paragraph on the sporting press. I don't want to repeat what I said in my first speech. There we have doubts and objections. The second concerns the fines and penalties and the risk of being considered as a second sentence, not only in the Greek Constitution and the laws, but also in the case of the European Court of Human Rights. I think we have already said that Article 2 on the electronic supervision of sports facilities and the nominal electronic ticket, which is, moreover, a continuation and extension of the older regulation in the right direction, and we support it and we expect it to be implemented and we will support your efforts to implement it. Because I think it will finally mean a lot to how we can control the situation on the ground. Furthermore, Article 3, which deals with fan clubs, finds us very positive. I would remind you of your commitment, Minister, to the sports bill, to issues relating, not only to clubs, which we know about those who are a little bit of sports events that are rather hypotonic and often, precisely because there are problems, the various circuits leave them on the margin and make other forms. So we will expect from you the sports bill that will broaden state control, on the way in which, not unconstitutionally, it is always understood, we will be able to demarcate them into their real role and limit the phenomena of violence that are being perpetrated by them. Article 4 - I have also referred to my first speech - is in agreement with us, in particular, that you are stricter in terms of the gravity of the act itself, but also whether the perpetrator bears weapons or some kind of means or tools that may be too dangerous for physical integrity. We believe that this is also in the very positive direction and we are voting on it. And Article 6 on statements of property status of arbitrators, arbitrators and arbitrators. The same for Article 7 for the treatment of suspected racing manipulations. We have said a lot in committee too. I shall be voting in favour of Article 8. I have tabled a number of proposals to you, Minister, for the IDA. It's in the Minutes. Immediately after the bill was passed, I will send it to you in writing. Not only these proposals, but the wider attempt to have an independent authority, but a substantial upgrading of the IAEA, will find us in agreement. I'll send you the suggestions. See what I've said from the Minutes. I think that a change in the method of selection will be in the right direction for the Violence Committee. I shall conclude, Mr President. You'll give me your tolerance for a minute or two maybe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u94	You have tolerance. Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u95	With Article 9, Article 10, Article 11 and 12, we agree, because this is of minor importance, of the Organisation of the General Secretariat of Sports. We have no objections. We certainly have a great deal of objections to Article 13 and Article 14 on education. I don't want to repeat myself. I told you this morning. We believe that these two articles are simply, if you like, 'host-free'. What is coming is a complete, I would say, regression, arrangements that go back decades to education for all three degrees. What comes as an urgent bill, unfortunately, was urgent! We have been seeing an emergency in education for too long. We believe that these two provisions, as I have said, open a door to counter-reformation in education, and that is what we find, Mr Kourakis, Minister, against the other side. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u97	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u98	Have you asked for the floor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Petrakos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u99	For an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u100	I would also like the intentions of the parliamentary representatives of the parties as to whether they will speak today or tomorrow. Tomorrow? Yes, sir. Let's continue with MPs today by 23:00. We will be interrupting and going after 12.00 p.m. tomorrow for a continuation with whom we will of course have left on the whole yesterday and the roll-call vote tabled by the New Democracy. The Deputy Minister of Education, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, has asked for a brief intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill we have tabled two articles in 13 and 14, since we believe that the process of the bank cannot continue, the examination system that operates as a looting system for too many children and leads them out of an education system. In order to be able to explain to the citizens who are following us on the subject bank, it is a standardisation of the examination process, through well-known questions and answers throughout the curriculum. From the topic bank across Greece, 50% of the subjects of the high school promotional classes and 50% of the teachers will come in. You understand that in this way the teacher's autonomy is being abolished, teaching in the way he wants, following the pace of students, so that it is a success, a low-performance student can go a little better and so that he can trust his teacher and teacher that what he will examine is what he has been taught. On the other hand, we have the topic bank, where, regardless of what it has taught and how the teacher and the teacher have taught it, he will be subject to predetermined questions - answers, which may not have been taught. You understand that this seemingly treating equal opportunities and opportunities across Greece simulates children in a degraded area - where teachers strive with nails and teeth to keep children in school - with a good school, with children with high performance and finally with the same difficult topics for all students. You understand that those who "pay the bride" are low-grade students, with a lack of ability to do instruction, therefore also lacking performance. The themes bank, if it went from next and after the following year, and then you understand that it would scarcely increase the school leak, as the difficulty rate would increase the children's departure, that is to say, staying in the same class and leaving the educational system. At the same time, it would completely alter the educational character of the educational system. A good school then would be a good school. What teaches you how to pass the tests, not how to critically assimilate knowledge. The messages we have are that this relieved all children, all students and raised their heads up and teachers, who, by this way, can have an autonomous teaching role. Of course, an additional element that could justify the subject-matter bank is as follows. With the existing system, before we abolish it, and with this bill, and with the aftermath, the degree to which the child was taking into the promotional exams of 1st and 2nd high school for admission to the university was taken into account. It is for this reason that we abolish the counting of grade 1 and grade 2 for universities, so that this grade actually now reflects only one performance in a school and has an autonomous role in high school. So, right now, what do we do? Firstly, we are abolishing the theme bank, secondly, taking account of grade I and II of high school and third and very important, which has not been understood - I am very afraid - by many colleagues, it is because we are reintroducing 9.5 as a means of promotion. Look out, ladies and gentlemen. Nine and a half were until 2013. Prior to 2013, there was nine and a half, i.e. an average of the written courses in question. Since 2013, this was outrageous, and I really want you to disagree, after you know what it was exactly. The student should get ten at each lesson. Ten in algebra, 10 in geometry, 10 in ancient Greek, 10 in new Greek, 10 in literature. In each of them ten. If she took nine, she was cut. And an average of ten and all the other lessons eight. You understand what a long distance the previous nine and a half are, as an average of all the courses, with what I mentioned earlier. That's why school failure from 4% went to 24%. The result would be a very large school leak, a shift in the labour market without qualifications, and ultimately the only benefiting from this whole process would be private training courses, which would absorb part of the pupils, those who had the opportunity to study. Finally, the other amendment we are bringing is the way in which the hours that have been lost are replaced. What do we replace in this case? We replace this. There was one provision from '13 and then that when there are for any reason lost hours to be filled in the Easter holiday and summer. What do we say? We can't go to summer. If you go to the summer to make up for hours, based on the school year that stops on May 15 to start the pan-Hellenics, the pan-Hellenics are very affected. Secondly, holidays very much affect the entire family planning of teachers, parents and students themselves. We say, however, that, instead of being replaced in this way, they are supplemented by cutbacks and tours, with limitations on the working days of the multi-day tours and with the use of school holidays. In other ways, then. Who's gonna decide? It will be recommended that the school board - which is composed of the educational staff, i.e. the school club - and the representatives of parents and pupils to the director of education and, in turn, the regional director, who will decide whether this is the most suitable way. That's what we're saying. We're talking about another way to make up for it. In any case, we believe that, with these interventions we are doing, and in particular with the first two, we are moving away from an examination system, we are restoring the self-evident educational role of high school and, above all, we are rectifying the educational role of the teacher, who can best implement his or her function, looking forward to improving the performance of the students of the back thrones, those who really have a great need, adapting all teaching to the needs of the pupils and not following another system where all children are treated in a way that is completely untrained. From Evros to Greece's elbows good school, bad school, all this in a highly exotic way. This exoticism, the only result it had, was to lead to a highly class school, so that the weakest pupils, i.e. those most in need, can be rejected from the educational system. I think we should vote in favour, of course, in the whole bill and in favour of these amendments which give a different orientation to our educational system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u102	Thank you, Minister. Have you asked for the floor, Mr. Petrakos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u103	Yes, Mr President, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u104	Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u105	An intervention due, because there were statements by the Parliamentary Representatives. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and the former Minister for Labour wants us to have an expedited access to Hardouvelis mail. We are aware that this government will not sign Memorandum measures, it will not sign any substantive measures, it will not sign any reductions in the pensions provided for in the Hardouveli mail, it will not sign any further break-up of labour relations. On the contrary, the bill for restoring collective agreements and for gradually restoring the minimum wage to 751 euros is on the way to Parliament. He's submitted to the consultation. So there is no problem that we will follow what they say. On the other hand, the government is working on a substantially beneficial agreement. And if they wanted to read well what the Prime Minister's joint statement with Mr Yunker - because they know Greek - would see that the joint declaration speaks exactly the opposite issues. It speaks of a system of collective bargaining, of the best European standards and not of the deregulations sought by the Memorandum measures. It speaks of the fact that the main objective of the pension system is to avoid third-age poverty. On the basis of the evidence presented by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Security Mr. Milos, about half of the pensioners are below the poverty line. That is where the Memorandum policies have been guided today. But, Mr President, they have also been disturbed by something else. Because today, despite what they say to us, this government leads the country to the destruction, without problems, of the public debt at the same rate. It was a success to auction interest rates at the same rate as last time. Secondly, the ELA threshold increased by two billion. The facts, unfortunately, disprove all those who see a disaster one day and the other that this government will pursue a memorial policy. Unfortunately for them, this government will not pursue a Memorandum of Understanding, it will not follow the path of destruction. Fortunately for the Greek people, there will be a solution that benefits Greece and the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Petrako. The House has listened carefully to you that there will be no labour and insurance problems. We heard you very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u107	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u108	Most certainly, you, too, for three minutes is equal, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. I would once again like to point out and call on the majority Members - because I believe they have democratic sensitivity - to build a wall on the legislative misery of the government. Mr Kourakis spoke earlier about critical provisions relating to education, when the day after tomorrow we will have a debate, and indeed with the urgency procedure, on education. Yesterday, in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, all the bodies complained of the government for the absence of a dialogue on education issues. And today, in a bill that Mr. Kontonis presented to us that he fought, worked, negotiated and supported efforts to combat violence, embedded provisions on the bank of issues, the promotion of students and the loss of hours. At last, a little serious! It's not a way to legislate. As a matter of fact, our rapporteur told us. My second comment is about what Mr. Petrakos said. I wish the government had a deal. We are not one of those who is impressed by populism and the cheap opposition. We're interested in the country's interests. And we have said many times - Mr Venizelos has said so too - that the country's interest is to have an agreement. And we have wished that she'd be better than the one we fought with, with our own red lines. We will comment on its content when we have exactly the content. Because with the front - back we've seen so far, this whole trimester of government, we've got a small basket. Here we are, and we are waiting to comment on it, but we wish the government to make decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. We shall continue with the eight-minute speeches of the Members. Mr Nicholas Orphanos from Potami is called in Stepma, followed by honourable Members. Alexandros Hadjimitriou, Anna Karamanlis, Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, Despina Sveroni - Chondronasios. Mr. Orphanus has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Eleven hours later, I'll be able to say two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u112	We're after twelve!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u113	And not just me, of course, and many other colleagues. Today in plenary we have another bill with another spectacular title: 'Emerging measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions'. Who can get away from such a title? Nobody. Unfortunately, however, to deal with violence, as well as with the humanitarian crisis, or to relaunch the economy, or to restore injustices, it is not only the imaginable titles. It requires an exterior work, a plan and a programme to respond to the content of each bill in its title. And unfortunately, we often miss these and only have one title, which nothing corrects, nothing heals. Stadium violence is a daily life, a habit now, a merciful reality and a catchy subject in the news reports. Every time we are together together together together in every new attempt to combat violence. What intelligent man doesn't want that? We all support its fight. We're with you, Minister. We have proved that with concrete proposals in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. But are you sure that your Government really wants to fight violence when it patiently tolerates the occupations of universities, the vandalism of its cities and monuments? Isn't it impressive that he's trying to severely punish, with an emergency bill, the lawbreakers only on the stadiums? I will say it again: there seems to be violence that is urgent and violence that is not urgent, violence that is being discussed, and violence that is being chased. Is it possible to believe that the Minister can be the great punishment? In other words, you are saying that he can play the role of a non-corruption judge, who will impose penalties at will, without a defined penal code, at will. What is a'serious' episode and what's particularly serious? And if for you it's clear, protect and help the next minister, who may not have the gift of objectivity. I am referring, of course, to Article 1 which enters this bill. You brought a bill full of swoops. I do not want to mention this detestable term for me, which the previous speakers have mentioned, but, in order to understand your will to interfere with UEFA, did we have to humiliate ourselves internationally to see what is self-evident in order to understand that violence in sport is not dealt with by lionism? On the contrary, the problem of dealing with it requires realism, attachment to reality and not divestments to the impossible. Of course, I do not blame you, under any circumstances, bad intentions. I do accept that you want to face the violence and finally put the knife on the bone - to say this cliché too. But I blame you on the "Decision and Order", which conceals more violence than you want to deal with. You leave dangerous ambiguities that administrative penalties do not allow. In the face of violence, the state must be clear. It must not leave room for questioning any punishment. Any subjectivity will shine the sense of injustice and lead to new uncontrolled violence. I would now like to make a point on the very nice subject raised by Mr Giokas from the JRC. It's okay that he's not here. In fact, we in Potami are always looking at what is happening in international reality, not because we think there are idyllic situations there, but there are countries where some problems have been encountered earlier and have reached some solutions when we are still fighting for self-evident. It is therefore undeniable that in some countries they have resolved and dealt with the matter with law enforcement and the acceptance of punishment. For in some countries, political factorism has not been confusing for years with athletic factorism, giving birth to all these 'hards'. Therefore, every time a strict penalty is imposed for such phenomena of football or sports violence in general, this is accepted without creating privileged and unjustified ones, giving birth to a new vicious cycle of incidents and anti-crisis. The committee has had a fruitful debate on the bill, clearly. A lot has been corrected. I'd be unfair if I didn't recognize it. We support you for this, but at the same time we warn you: we will be here to judge constructively the effectiveness of the bill in practice. Of course, there is still something in today's bill, the last two articles on education and, unfortunately, they do not concern the upgrading of education, which we all recognise is the greatest enemy of violence, but its degradation. With Articles 13 and 14 of this bill you have slowly started the "block" of public education, "block", which is still going on in the bill we will discuss on Friday in summary procedures, which, unfortunately, are now inclined to become the norm of legislative work. Is it possible for the Ministry to adopt OLEME's argument for word? The President of OLAME knew about the amendments which will be tabled before the Members and when they began to be put, they were also put inadvertently for them. Then we took them too. Remove the theme bank, bring the grade '9.5' as a means of promoting and open the way for lost teaching hours that are never filled, since there is, of course, no extension of the school year. You told us your argument. All these are OLEME requirements. You're going to tell me, of course, that the thing bank was having problems. Clearly. He increased the schools, with the panic he created, because it was applied obscurely just before the exams. However, I imagine that you do not mean the problem of the name set by the President of OLEME, who said that even the name - the word "bank" - creates unpleasant arrangements for students. With such things and such ideas we are going! But when will we assess the subject bank? Did we evaluate her somehow? When did we talk seriously about any improvements? Never. You remove it because it suppresses the teachers. It pressures them to end matter, to expand matter, to abolish it because they really evaluate their educational work in a way and to evaluate, in every form, you have allergy, the same allergy that OLAME has. The trade unions, who are listening very carefully, have convinced us that the perfect educational system for them is what they do not make any effort, what is not disturbing any of their habits, the one that has the least trouble. I'm coming to '9.5' now. You say that "9,5" will keep the poor financially weak at school, that is to say it will keep those who do not have the capacity for instruction. We tell you that with "9,5" you tell the weaker never look up. I want to make a comment, Minister. I really want to ask you: is there a teacher who leaves in the same class a student who will have taken the basis in all the lessons - why is 10 the basis, is not the perfect one - and will he lack a unit to pass on? Which sadist professor will leave his student for a degree in the same class? This phenomenon you're saying doesn't exist. There are no sadistic teachers. Teachers rush to help the weak, except when they overwhelmingly fall short of a set of courses. But for one and two degrees no student lives in the same class. There is no such degree of unconsciousness to teachers. Mercy! But you're condemning the students to moderate downwards. You want a public education of a minor effort. We challenge you: Make a public education, which does not need the instruction centers, which gives real equal opportunities, which the child is facing from Kifisia in the same way as the child from Diabetes. But you don't have that intention. We don't see it. It proves it and your decision to leave only five standards in all five in Attica and none in the region. I'll see you in detail on Friday. I can sum up: fragmentary measures on education, fragmentary measures on sporting violence, superpowers on the respective Minister - emperor, superpowers on the Professor - an acquaintance that he evaluates, but is not evaluated. Any attempt to deal with violence is acceptable, but any attempt to reduce public education is unacceptable. That's where you'll find us across the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr Orphane. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks is organised and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and four teachers attending the 46th Elementary School of Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. We wish you health, all good and good progress! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Hadjimitriou Alexander from the River for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not tire you. You're anyway and we're all afflicted, not just today, but from yesterday, the other day. It seems that this story will continue for too long. Good courage, I wish you. I'll share with you a secret. There are few of us, and let us share this secret a few times. It's a secret I wanted to mention when we discussed the bill at first, but it's okay. Because it relates to a particular article, Article 5, but also to the entire bill, let us now share this secret. We lack two key issues so that we can deal with the issue of sport violence. The first of all is education. And when we talk about education - and it is you, Minister, who are involved in education - we are talking about education in sport justice. At the moment, they render the justice of sport law, that is, they render sport law, judges who have not been trained on sport law. At the university, in law school, there is no doctorate, a master’s degree in sports law. Sport law is not taught in judge schools. So the secret is - and I wish that Mr Deputy Minister, who is a colleague, is a lawyer, and he would understand - that nobody knows about sporting law. He doesn't know when he goes as a new judge to trial. Not many people know that. There is no culture of sport law in our society. There is no culture of sport law in sport. And now we come to the second issue, which concerns Article 5. It's perhaps what you didn't do as a government, if you only touched it, it could lead us somewhere without having to deal with UEFA, FIFA, etc. You know, many times they intervene, those who interfere, in our internals, because we don't do that all along. That's the problem. We come and talk about disciplinary and judicial bodies. The procedures are specific. They are the primary and secondary bodies, which are next to the NCA, which are supposed to give justice. Then there is the ASEAD, the Supreme Council for Sports Differences. You know, ASEAD once wasn't just in Athens. He was in Thessaloniki, too. The law provided for it. The main sport law provided that the Supreme Council could also be in Thessaloniki. Ministerial decision has been abolished. Where do I want to end up? If something happens to Zakynthos tomorrow, if something happens to Serres, we should all get up and travel and go to Athens. There is no natural judge, a regular judge who knows the region and can see any particular issue on the ground. It's what we never touched. And this is where I'm gonna close, so I won't tire you any more. What are we expecting from sport, what are we waiting for is supposed to be from the primary and secondary bodies, when, first, there is no culture in sport law, since neither are our own judges taught, and when there is a concentration in this man-eater state, in this man-eater city in Athens? All of us from the province - and that is what all the parliamentarians in the province must see - our groups, our unions, are obliged to move to Athens. There has now been a matter of 10 - 20 people, and I will say something else - and it is not badly heard by some colleagues - and 20 lawyers. It is not possible for any lawyer in the province - you know, Mr President, perhaps better and I call your testimony, because you are a lawyer - to serve and serve his team, because something is going on Sunday, and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, he must go to the primary body. It's impossible for the lawyer to go because he's far away. The costs of the paradox are 2,000 euros and put in what is needed to transfer any team, together with the athletes, together with the "categors" in front of the primary courts, to the primary control bodies in Athens. It doubles costs, resulting in ten lawyers and five - ten judges controlling the entire system of sport justice. That's how this system was organized. It's what we forget. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We're talking about a bill, and I really don't know who handled it. I can come as a lawyer and write you five more articles. Mr. Nearlys likewise. You, all of us, can propose each other five or ten articles. Who, though, really knows sports law and can investigate it and study it? The answer is that no one really knows it. There have been infinite proposals from the Institute of International Sport Law, based in Athens. They have also proposed to the Deputy Minister and have said to him "Come and give you some solutions, transfer responsibilities, open it up". Mr Minister - as Mr Deputy is missing, I address you - when the natural judges, the regular judges from Thessaloniki, from the Ioannina, from all over Greece - do not have to be gathered here - are trained on sporting law, when they learn better, university sports law, there at some point, after one, two, three years we will be able to deal with all these issues and we will be able to avoid these adventures that we are now living with international organisations and international bodies, which control this bill. We'd already know, the judges would know, the people who really deal with sports law would know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Hadjimitriou. Mrs Anna Karamanlis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to comment on the parliamentary procedure, as a bill, which has been subjected to considerable changes in its philosophy in relation to the drafting of the committee, comes in plenary. and the Members of Parliament know nothing but what we are going to vote on. What do I mean by that? The Minister called for a consensus from the parties and we had all the good will to support this bill. He took a lightning trip to Geneva and did not even bother informing the party rapporteurs. From 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., the first legislative improvement came to our hands at 13.46 p.m., so that we could not be placed, because we did not know what had been said at the meeting in Geneva. Of course, after what has been submitted, the UEFA document, which we have taken in our hands and read it, we believe that the Secretary-General is not at all at home. Let me not say, of course, that before the committee, the bill was not even consulted by the parties, so that we could exchange views and ask, anyway, some people who have served sport for many years. We understand that the State Secretary is in a difficult position, since he is forced to carry out a series of pirates and to leave the lionism aside. However, this is at least a problematic practice. The draft law under discussion is the main object of dealing with sporting violence. It is a complex phenomenon, which requires wider political, social and sporting consensus. That is why we asked the Secretary-General not to insist on provisions and formalities which were fatally resulting in the break-up and elimination of the Greek football by international organisations, provisions which provided for the over-concentration of disciplinary powers on the person of the State Secretary, which allowed him to intervene primarily and impose sanctions and fines on groups, without the opinion and assessment of another body, which eventually turned him into the almighty of Greek sport. The New Democracy had expressed its opposition to all tons of this perception. And we did not do so from personal experience in Mr Kontonis's face, nor, of course, because we question his intentions, but because there is no suspicion of political feasibility in the decisions of the Minister in question. I have pointed out to you, Minister, during the debate in the committee that a common place can be found. I stressed that no one was blinded to the serious diseases of Greek football. For the first time, UEFA recognised that there are issues of corruption and violence in Greek football. In making use of this assumption, we had to bridge the gap with the international federations and ask for solutions together, because we had the opportunity to hit the centres of lawlessness and corruption, having the international federations of allies and archivals. There have, indeed, been mutual retreats with the obsession of the Minister in maintaining Europe's right to exclusion of groups. You have taken the lead at the moment, Mr Secretary, but the risk of Grexit is more visible than ever and you will have the responsibility solely of those who vote for this article, Article 15, which concerns the self-employed of the NCA. We are also opposed, of course, to Article 5, which we shall also vote against. A small reference to the online ticket, which has been included in all sport laws, has unfortunately not been achieved. There is no doubt that it is essential to deal with violence, but there are still objective difficulties in its implementation. Alongside this, Mr Secretary-General, it would help to create a database which will be maintained by the General Secretariat of Sports and which records the people involved in incidents, so that they are not allowed to be issued a ticket or to be known in advance. Mr Contonis, I was really upset when, in your first speech this morning, you referred to some journalists who, as you claimed, urged you to pursue an aggressive policy, and then to their own texts, in their writings, claimed exactly the opposite. I would ask you very much, if you don't carve, to name them. Otherwise, I leave you to the judgement of the journalistic world and public opinion. Sports authors - because I'm also a sportsist - have children and families and because our children go to school, it's good to say the names, name the ones you talked about in the morning. The bill does not give a complete response to the problem of violence, because the argument that violence is inextricably linked to corruption is too simplistic. This also demonstrates cases of violence that are not related to football or professional sport. More extensive intervention is needed, with emphasis on both education and policing. With regard to the articles on educational matters, I will say that Article 13 provides for the reintroduction of '9.5' as a level of promotion in the high school class. This is a clear return to the logic of a minor effort. The opportunity is given to students, with extremely low degrees in basic courses, to be promoted unprotected and finally to obtain a certificate, without a reflection and without any practical provision, when in high school, which is compulsory, the basis remains in '10'. Because we have heard government officials claim that these provisions deal with the disastrous leakage and school abandonment, is this the right way to reduce it by level of education? Because it's an upgrade of education, I'm sure it's not. There is also provision for the effective abolition of the themes bank, as it will now only be of an advisory nature. To accept that there could be changes and rationalisation in the volume of issues, in their level and graduation of difficulty, in encouraging critical thinking. However, Mr Minister, without an assessment of the success or not of the measure, you are going to abolish it, despite the fact that the Bank ensures that issues are equal to the whole world and that the material is taught, as stated in the detailed programme. Finally, the government should explain to us what its aim is for the role and purpose of high school is. To have the absolute gravity or to nullify its value? Because, through legislation such as the ones contained in the bill under discussion, I fear that we are training young people who will invest in the above aid rather than in democracy and effort. Moreover, in the same logic is Article 14 on the replacement of courses, which limits itself to a narrow context. We are therefore voting against these two articles on education and by closing down, I would like to go back to the sporting part of the bill. Minister, you have asked for a consensus on the problems of Greek football. We wanted to offer this consensus. Unfortunately, you did not put your backs on, and I mean the one that should be in the articles in question, not the others that are easy. But you will not have our support for actions that lead football to isolation and further depreciation. Every attempt to transform Greek sport into Cugie will find us firmly across the street. Because you intend to bring a comprehensive sports bill, to know that especially from people coming from sport, you will have it in every initiative aimed at reorganising the space, transparency and democratisation of the institutions and procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u118	As long as UEFA agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u119	You asked for her opinion. Don't ask her and bring her as you should.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u120	Mrs Karamanlis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u121	We asked her to run out of line...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u122	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u123	No dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u124	Please. Mr Dimitris Emmanoulidis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor. Mr. Emmanuelides, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our role here is not only to legislate but also to train society through responsible parliamentary dialogue, a dialogue which aims to cure social suffering, through the introduction of proper and sensitive legislation. Let us speak quite clearly. Football, as the most philosophical collective sport, has huge diseases, with dominant elements of violence and lawlessness. Is the EPA head of authority to regulate the regularity of this folk sport? Of course, you will tell me 'yes'. So the responsibilities for the proper functioning of the championships and the whole of this collective sport is held by the supervisory authority? You'll probably tell me 'yes'. Apart from that, however, we have now seen tactics, strife of the leading forms of this organization with misery and crime. These are not my views. These are filed through the judiciary. What would anyone expect from a legislative body, intended to settle these loose ends? He would have expected to address and enforce the normality and legality of the functioning of this institution, without any disgrace, because a controversy is, of course, genuinely acceptable. But when the NCA is enclosed to cover its injustices and weaknesses in a supreme, supranational authority - UEFA, FIFA, in this case - it must be carefully monitored. Throughout the year, they have acquired tremendous potential to catalyse constitutional authorities. Because these are the functions of these organs. And they come to threaten normality, constitutionality, legality with the threat of Grexit. These misery, at last, gentlemen of the New Democracy, must be stopped and you must take your own responsibilities. You cannot be honored of dishonesty. I then come to the issues that regulate the problems of education. Education is a place that beyond a citizen has stigmatized and characterized my life. Thirty years I've been in school classes. So I would really like to - because at the moment I am evacuating my political status and speaking as a teacher - to make this statement, which has been consolidated through a distanced political attitude. Those of you who have teaching experiences like you, Mr. Fortsaki, I think you can give an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic principle of teaching - her first article - stipulates that we never ask our students for things that we have not taught them. It is an inalienable principle, which cannot under any circumstances be applauded or at least called into question. In this case, this relationship is automatically and universally dismantled. Why is it from a bank that is not known to the one who organized this whole bank grid, how is it possible to know the atmosphere of teaching, the content of teaching, the deepening of the teaching that through the sanctity of an hour of teaching comes out? This, however, creates the following problems: First, it cancels the teacher’s role, because, when the student knows that matters will not be the result of a meaningful dialectical and deep relationship, but outside and beyond the knowledge of the atmosphere of teaching are given, the teacher’s role is degraded. The second is the social extension of this system, since children were forced to take care of them. And that has a double, negative effect. One is that in the subconscious of the school world, the role of the public school and the other - which is more painful - is that the family is forced into this financial impotence to lose another part of its non-existent income by supporting child support. In the case of '10' made '9,5' and accused the teacher, the educational world for a dynamic and a prospect of discounting and subsidence of the level of study, I tell you that this was absolutely imperative. Because with a system that through a labyrinth algorithm led things into blockade - I assure you - 80% of the students, three times we had to cook the results, so that the classes next year could not be empty. This was the invention of the designers of "10", with an absolute "10" at all classes. I mean, it was an unreal relationship with the students. Therefore, for things that are commonly reasonable, I think we are unfair to ourselves if we are opposed. So in both of them, I think that if there were no dynamics of predatory opposition and controversy, common sense would dictate consensus and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides. Mrs Sveroni has the floor and Mr Excellency Georgios is prepared. Mrs. Sveroni, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. This draft law is entitled: 'Urgent measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions'. I shall begin with the other provisions of Article 13 on the basis of what has been heard by the representative of the PASOK, Mr Christophilopoulou. He said that if this article is passed, then we are talking about regression. Mr. Koutsoukos and he said we're not plundering education. I would therefore like to say to both representatives of the small PASOK today that, when PASOK was great, in 1982 one night, on 11 January 1982, the prospects of Hellenism were decided in this Chamber. So, what happened? The House discussed a bill on the registration of students in high school. As a matter of fact, the government has brought an amendment to the effect of imposing the monotonous system on education, Mrs Christophilopoulou. The opposition then, the New Democracy, broke into its garments, as it now, and without giving the slightest fight, left the Chamber and left. Because he said that it is a major issue of our language and cannot come with a post-mortem amendment. The monotonous system is imposed by the vote of only thirty people. These are the Members present. It is worthy of wonder how it may be that you are born with a language spoken three and a half thousand years - in the last two and a half years it has ensured the historical and functional continuity of her polytonic script - that she has given you such a language, a gift of life, a gift of the most rare ones can be given to a man and you deny this privilege for a cheap use, with the justification "not too tired for children." What does that show? A raw progeny and a barbaric oligen. This is to keep them from being cut that they are so interested in the youth learner. You know, when your resignation came back, when he came to the government, he did absolutely nothing about it. Is that what it means? That in this felony that was committed by the previous ones, you too. So without sentiments if we judge, do you know how important it was that night? It's bigger than what's called the Asia Minor Destruction. In the Asia Minor Destroy, ancient sights of Hellenism were lost. However, Greekity has not been lost, because Greekity is a way of life, it is a culture. Our language remained, the continuation of this, which is the practical continuity of historical consciousness. Reaction and then there was no way out of it. There wasn't any from the Athens Academy. There was no University Senate. Nobody quit. No philosophical school has reacted. They didn't say a word. Nobody. No companies philosophers, neither judges nor lawyers, nor the Holy Synod, nor OLAME or the ILO. Nobody. They weren't interested. What did that show? That Greece was ready for its national delinquency and in the position of this delinquency now came the citizenship of Balkan provincialism. That's how we've been experiencing since then. With a Balkan provincialism and this is what we are concerned with. We are here and are supposedly Europeans wherever and as much as it is of interest to us. But together with our Hellenism and this grievance that began from then on and until now, we have lost a lot. Because the element of Hellenism was sport, it was the speech. All this slowly, what did they do? Sports was also commercialised, especially football, which is a sport that is of great value to the market. It's what they say in a Greek film "is a lot of money, Mars" and, where there's a lot of money, where there's a lot of money, then there's a lot of trouble. When there is a great deal of confusion, then there are other situations and violence is one of these situations that creates this money, this commercialisation of everything, even of sport. And we wonder today? We might wonder. We hide, ostrich, that we are supposed to be interested in violence, violence on the ground. But Greece on the stadiums is sighing, but not just on the stadiums now. You see, violence starts very early, from kindergarten, from school. We were not recently talking about bullying - as we Greeks say with the citizenship of Balkan provincialism, because we do not say intra-school violence -? There's intra-school violence. Isn't that violent, too? So when we train young people in intra-school violence, this young man, the student, the teenager, will not become the hooligan? Isn't it going to be the guy who's going to be raped on the stadiums? And we wonder? Is that ever possible? And wonder who? I have a great deal of complaint with you colleagues - not all of them, however - who are doing what you are doing? You're going to report and this report hides verbal violence. You will report to your constitutional bow and of course you will leave a space out of constitutional arc. This place is ours. And you then want to be able to get through this violence, which we are experiencing within the House, to eliminate. But, you know, then the Greek people - if the TV and the TV of this House actually show it all - should see what is happening and realize that you're probably making fun of him. Because violence starts here. It starts with the verbal violence towards a party, which you have included outside the constitutional arch, and you are remarked that you are interested in democracy. You were not moved, however, today, when you were informed - and if you were not informed, you had to be informed - that one of my colleagues - not a Member - a lawyer, who is my defender of Chrysayers in the trial of Golden Dawn which was interrupted and continues tomorrow, was attacked, violently, in his office. The result of this violence, do you know what it was? To say 'I'm quitting'. Why does he quit? Because she's scared. Because fear now exists everywhere. Isn't that violence? When there are posters saying "fake the Golden Dawns", what is that? Aren't you urging others to force?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u128	Mrs. Sveroni, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u129	That's violent, too. And since you sow violence, what you sow, that's exactly what you reap. So don't ask yourself why it's one, because it's the other. And do not miss that you were better than what the current government is going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u130	Mrs. Sveroni, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u131	Yes, Madam President. Wait a minute, I'll be done. This is about the bill, the amendments and everything else is about the violence, which unfortunately prevails everywhere, from Parliament to the court and from the kindergarten to the courts. Because tomorrow in the courts there will be another form of violence: all people - all Greek citizens and non-Greek citizens - of the constitutional democratic arch, because they respect justice, will be outside the courtroom with a banner and will say 'arion, crucify him!'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u132	Mrs. Sveroni, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u133	Why crucify him? In the name of democracy, where the biggest crimes are committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs Sveroni. Mr. George Akrititis, Member of SYRIZA, then Mr. Dimitriadis Dimitris.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to see a bill moving forward, which is determined to break the relationship between sport and violence. Fines of up to EUR 25 million, under house arrest, postponed and banned the conduct of matches, suspension of a championship, electronic supervision and a nominal ticket, fines in the media, control of matching fans, regular judges in disciplinary bodies, statements of property status for arbitrators, annulment of bet fraud. The measures taken are courageous and dynamic and will be implemented, dependent on the state. Indeed, there is no doubt that the state must intervene forcefully in an area that many times has dealt with us about the way in which it is impulses but also gives rise to interests and attitudes that are not limited to sports spaces. From the Olympic Games, which have enriched some by charging the country irreversibly, to the Fascist enclaves, the organized fans, to the pogrom of racist violence, such as on the night of September 4, 2004, until open work for political reasons, such as attributes to local government, it is evident that, when we touch sport, we touch at the same time many and explosive issues that go beyond it. Well, we're intruding. I would just like to draw your attention to a very critical issue, which concerns the spirit of the law. Sport is not just a field of entrepreneurship or the reproduction of external relations and conflicts. Sport is part of our culture and reflects it. So while we are doing very well to lay strict rules, we must be aware that culture is not institutionalised by violence and that it is not enough to intervene on the ground to deal with violence. Furthermore, this is not a purely technical issue, as is violence not a purely technical issue. Violence and, therefore, violence in sport is a political issue and a question of culture, which cannot be dealt with by the State Secretary for Sports alone, which is not only repressive. It remains, therefore, to address the root of the distortions in the field of sport. It is a pity to recall that the roots of these distortions, the roots of violence and mafia in the field of sport are found in the daily exponential violence and mafia, in violence and mafia in the workplace and on the road, from the horns in Manola to the destruction and the brass in Halkidiki, to every small and large fraudster who is exploiting, blackmailing and mocking the workers and the fired. However, this labelling remains useful if we do not want to see domestic violence simply diverted outwardly. The Sports Secretary-General's initiative should therefore be regarded as part of the government's general strategy and should be framed by equally courageous measures in all areas. There is no point in dealing with the violence on the ground if it goes on in the homes, schools, neighbourhoods, workplaces, roads, police stations and the country's borders. In two words, it must be clear that the point of today's legislative initiative is not simply to put order, which we could hear from others' lips with quite different meaning. The class, as the Left means it, is of another type, and it is revealed whether, alongside today's bill, we have the effective taxation of the rich, the nationality of all children, the protection of the environment, the democratisation of the police, the democratic and fair school, the implementation of labour law, the response to the humanitarian crisis. That is why this legislative initiative is taken by the Left, and only the Left could take it, because it is hypocrisy and indulgence to condemn violence on the ground those who are tolerated to drown every day in the Mediterranean, those who have left without work a million and a half of our fellow citizens, those who have broken up the health system, reducing the life expectancy of an entire country, those who have violently destroyed up to the concentration of AMEs. So that is the main point we have to make in relation to the spirit of the law, that they are not talking today, we are talking about, with our own worthwhile burden, with our own history, with our own red lines and that these are the red lines that give us the right to finally get a red card where we need to. Now, this bill also contains some provisions concerning education. I have devoted most of my life to public school as an educator and trade unionist - and to many here, as an enemy of the people, so called the trade unionists, the third depth of democracy - and I could not be placed. As a party and a party, we formed and served the vision of a public school that is not subject to market needs for disciplined, flexible and skilled skills, but serves the needs of society, the needs of pupils and parents for effective education and employment rights. We fought for a school without social, racial, religious and other discrimination, for a school of democratic and social law, for a school mirror of society that we envision. Today we are called upon to legislate from the government's position. We are even called upon to legislate urgently, both within the framework of the memorandum policies and the artificial suffocation imposed on us by the creditors. However, even these urgent arrangements are in a positive direction. They complement our time-consuming positions, relieve the middle family, give choices and release the student and the teacher. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The theme bank can no longer be judged on ideological terms. She was tested and we saw her results. Increase in the care centres by 25% and hence the budget burden of each family, increase in school failure, and as a result of the school leak of 8% to 10%. The theme bank has therefore in practice proved to be a classic and unfair measure, not just undisciplined and well confined to an advisory role. The definition of the base in ‘9,5’ also moves in the same direction as a reminder of the main role of the school, which is to form children and not to punish, exclude and inspire competition. Accordingly, the arrangements for the replacement of lost teaching hours, which may be met by various factors, enables the state and its responsibility to give the education community the opportunity to decide how to make effective replacement, without penalising reason, and thus forms part of our general logic of the democratisation of the school. In total, these are therefore key and welcome legislative interventions. In combination with the bill that comes in the next few days, we see our new philosophy and political intention begin to be reflected. We will not dwell on details and individual issues. What is needed at this fragile juncture is above all to convey this new spirit, style and morality to society. To show education, as in all other areas of government work, that this government is in fact different, to convey faith and hope to the winter society and to prepare it to join us in the difficult battles that are coming. The best way to have society with us is to give it a space of expression, to start a great consultation on education as soon as possible, along with all the actors and social groups involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Excellency. Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor. Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of the New Democracy, must also be prepared. Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomena of violence and lawlessness which are very often observed in the courts are inconsistent with the spirit of sport, fair play, competition and collective effort. Violence, fanaticism, opacity, corruption, cosmopolitanism and all the morbid phenomena that have taken place for so many years on the stadiums will have to be dealt with immediately, because they have now become uncontrolled. The draft law we are debating today, with a sense of responsibility towards society and with a view to transparency, reliability, impartiality, public interest and security, is a decisive step towards a decisive approach to this. We know that, for the definitive elimination of phenomena, action must be taken over time and greater reforms such as unemployment, education, justice, culture and so on. However, it is at the moment necessary to take immediate measures to rigorously but fairly address both the natural and the moral perpetrators of these phenomena. This draft law provides for the following issues: Issues are regulated in order to operate electronic ticket and electronic surveillance systems. These systems have cost the Greek state EUR 14 million. However, they have not been implemented, despite the fact that they could make an effective contribution to tackling and preventing violence. The use of sports facilities shall no longer be prohibited unless the operation in terms of electronic supervision and the electronic rated ticket has been established. There is also a ban on making tickets to fans who have not followed the legalisation process provided for. Another provision of this bill is that the Minister responsible for sport may impose fines on the sports clubs concerned by reasoned decisions taken following the opinion of all the operators concerned, and this concerns serious incidents, inducement to provoke incidents, racist behaviour and, in general, violence within or outside the racing spaces. These fines will be imposed taking into account the principle of proportionality, while avoiding the time-consuming procedures that have been followed so far. At the same time, it restores order in terms of isology and isopoliticalism, as sports companies will no longer be an exception to other companies. In order to prevent the repetition of phenomena of violence, the relevant Minister is given the opportunity to prohibit the conduct of specific competitions or to interrupt sporting events. It is also planned to impose fines on the media on cases of incitement, incitement or encouragement to racism and violence. Furthermore, the draft law we are debating today also makes significant changes in sporting justice and in the fight against bet fraud and manipulation of racing. With regard to sport justice, it is foreseen that all disciplinary bodies in football will now be made up of ordinary judges, while the prosecuting officer is engaged in an active public prosecutor. Provisions for checks on the property situation of arbitrators, their assistants and arbitrators are laid down in order to prevent financial fraud in professional sport. In case there are reports on matching suspects for manipulation, the opportunity to postpone or postpone the race. Finally, it is worth noting the very important provision, at least in my capacity, allowing disabled athletes, deaf athletes, fellow athletes, members of national teams, coaches, coaches, members of the board of directors to obtain a licence with remuneration for their participation in international competitions. Finally, we believe that this draft law will exalt the ground for the necessary major reform of our sport that follows. As far as the Education Ministry's amendments to '9.5' are concerned, on the subject bank and on the recovery of lost hours, I think the educational community has spoken in general terms and I agree with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Demetriadis. Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor and Mr Christos Simorellis follows. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make a point which I have made since the current legislative culture - I would say - is introduced with the initiatives of the present government. The legislative initiative and the draft laws, at a workable rate, have all come within one month, the titles of "Emergency", such as this, "First Aid" yesterday, "democracy" etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u140	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u141	You're laughing, my colleague, but the point is who's gonna laugh last. As you quite rightly say, "when the old dies and the new is born", these glorious and majestic phrases are good to be said, but in politics, as we all know, everything is judged by the result. You make friendly efforts, but what I feel we should say is that there are laws. They have been formulated and voted in this Chamber for many years, but unfortunately they are not being implemented. It is the constant request of the Greek people, of every citizen we represent, who tells us 'Why are the laws not applicable?' I'll give you an example. The online ticket. It's very right. It was previously said that he has been hosted in many related sports bills. Why doesn't it apply? Here's the thing. In the morning on other committees we were discussing the implementation of other laws. For a decade, in relation to what we said yesterday in the public administration bill, a law on productivity and the targeting of public administration has been passed. Unfortunately, it does not apply. Where do we see the productivity and targeting of public administration? Every time we bring bills, which are repeated as a result of the failure to implement the resolutions already adopted. This bill, in the right direction, refers to the famous violence. It has been rightly said by many colleagues that violence is one. There aren't many kinds of violence. Violence is one, whether it turns to persons, to animals, to things, to objects or toward acquired objects, such as universities, it has said to our culture, such as monuments. The government's manifested attitude to these forms of violence has brought us to an impression of fish. I fear that there will be a symptom to combat the violence of land. It may at one time, as my colleague of the Golden Dawn said, Greece was sighing on the stadiums, but this was in the 1950s and 60s, as Dionysus Savvopoulou said, but today it is sighing by the blows of the MATs, which are also called upon to impose order in cases that unfortunately cannot be taken over by another kind of civilization. Colleagues have spoken from Potami and other colleagues, about international practice, especially in England and Germany, about the intense issues and examples of hooliganism and what happened there. I think it is in the right direction, Minister, what you are doing. As I said to your rapporteur, however, all results will be judged. Of course, the subject of violence is not covered by bills. It's a matter of discipline. As education is about issues that concern everything, from school, so there must be the subject of violence in the field. Football is the most popular sport of the Greek people and every people. However, what is happening especially on the stadiums can no longer be said, as has often been said here, to go with his wife and child to watch a football game. So what we must all see is how we will be able to discipline, as will for traffic treatment, the Greek people, the young people, to avoid what you are trying to cure through your legislative initiative. You brought two emblematic articles on education. Repeal of the theme bank. It is your right if you are a majority party, since you have the legislative initiative. It was said earlier by a SYRIZA colleague - I do not remember his name - an educational and trade unionist that we cannot look at a student when we have not taught him what we are considering. Then teach him. Why constantly move in the philosophy of minor effort? I think it covered a wide range of knowledge. And I believe that at this time ours - which is not far from other colleagues - learned a lot of letters and good letters and we were working, fighting. Today our children receive a plastic knowledge on their own, I intend to use it for admission to universities. So you realise that such moves to abolish legislative initiatives by past governments create huge problems as regards the continuity and consistency of an institutional and vast area, such as education. I would like to mention, Minister, something that Mr Hadjigetiri has already said about the lack of culture of Sport law. I believe that this should be looked at further from the government's point of view, given that sports judges - who rightly replace pensioners - must slowly and with the inspiring of the state to enter a specialisation procedure on sports law. I think you should see that. Likewise, with regard to the move made in relation to the self-interest of the NGO, it has fortunately been a suspension of this move, given that we have been exposed internationally. There are also positive points in the bill, such as the support for arbitration, which needs to be strengthened. I must also raise here the issue of sports clubs in sports associations, such as the Association of Laconia Football Associations, which, with heroic efforts - such as all their fellow regions, associations - are trying to support with lukewarm reinforcements this nursery of young children who can deal with football. I feel that the government has to delineate certain issues. You will, Minister, with a horizon of a month, be able to implement what you are voting on. And I believe that in this regard the Greek people, who are under the brink of the economic crisis and also the financial uncertainty regarding our lenders, cannot monitor your legislative initiatives at the rate you are taking them, since what is currently important to the Greek people is to secure its economic future. From there on, these initiatives are legitimate. We - as our rapporteur, Mr Koukodimos, quite rightly said - will support the positive, but, as we have an institutional obligation, we will control the negative ones. And from that point on - and I will repeat that - we will all be judged on the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Mr Christos Simorellis has the floor and Mrs Aylonitou Helen, a member of the SYRIZA, also has the floor. Here, Mr. Simorelli, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u143	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be tempted to make a comment myself. Of course, Mr. Brutsi is missing. But she was raped to say a few things before. I should like to inform him that the news from Europe is not good. Not for our country, of course, nor for our Government, but for the New Democracy itself. There will be a deal. One advice: to change policy, to change the 'left parenthesis'. And here we'll be here to talk about it. And to the Minister, I want to say you're doing well, Minister, and you brought this bill. We have a lot to do in the field of sport. We have a big fight. We should prepare the other bill, because there's a lot of bad stuff in sport. I'll just mention one thing to you. How these unions, federations, etc. are elected. Because I served the Trikala Football Club Association, and I know from the means how they're elected. That's where violence starts, blackmails, etc. So, if we go to S.H.I.E.L.D., we'll find too much. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill on the fight against violence and pathogens, which we have experienced for so many years, those who are dealing with sport, whether as athletes or as fans, is coming to complement the progressive reforms of the Social Rescue Government with the left. Sport, professional and amateur, empowers certain values and ideals, gives messages of life, gives messages of culture and mainly gives important messages against violence and all kinds of racism. In no case is there any violence in sport and especially in sport that we want, in which every person has the right to be non-discriminatory and restricted to sport, to enjoy the benefits of sport and to be recreational by the monitoring of sports. Therefore, sport for man and not violence in sports spaces is the political basis on which all the logic of this bill falls. Thus the incidents of violence, which have resulted in the past jeopardy and loss of human lives on lands and stadiums, must be left in the past. At this juncture it is our duty to filter pathogens by keeping sport and ideals that empower unaltered. In this sense it must be understood that any federation and organization must be disciplined in the laws of the State and in the popular will. Federations such as the NCA must be self-government and not autonomous, as defined in the law. No legal person is above state law. As the Minister said, international and domestic federations must understand that these are administrative measures taken by the state. They have nothing to do with disciplinary measures taken by a federation for a sporting anonymous company. The institution is controlled and supervised by the state as controlled by all companies. So the state will impose fines if it considers that the laws are violated. Some changes in the bill, and it is important to stress that, on the basis of incidents of violence, the Minister will have the possibility of prohibiting certain races and the participation of groups in events, by imposing such fines. This will help to curb such misfortune of violence by putting everyone before their responsibilities. In fact, participation in the next season of any group will be banned, since the operation of its sports installation with electronic surveillance systems and a nominal and electronic ticket has not been ensured. That's very important. Transparency and control by all relevant bodies shall be promoted. It is crucial that we report the staffing of football disciplinary bodies with regular judges and regular prosecutors in the next five months. All special treatment provisions for football are abolished against other federations. It is also necessary to submit to the Committee on Professional Sport a statement of property by arbitrators, arbitrators and arbitrators of arbitrators for the purpose of carrying out such checks. This will combat any possibility or suspicion of money laundering, burning theme that has concerned the sporting community in the past. Furthermore, it would also be right to make a point: this bill takes measures that do not have budgetary costs, but have social benefits, by hitting establishments and years' interests. It is another step towards more democracy. Let us not forget that the sports team, the court, and even a group that sees a struggle demarcate a social space. In our positions and our ideology, there must be mutual respect in every social area, no racist, violent and oppressive phenomena, and democracy must function. So our response to colleagues in the Anti-Population, who have for so many years tolerated such phenomena, is - and I have said it before - that such structural problems in society must be tackled with political will to break established interests. Finally, I would like to close by saying that the people we love sport see this bill as a sign of salvation, a dynamic move by the government to move sport forward without being arraigned by violence, hooliganism and economic interests. I am delighted to vote on the bill, hoping that in future we will be free from all forms of violence in sports spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u144	We thank Mr Simorellis, who was impeccable in keeping his time. Mrs Eleni Aylonitou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for eight minutes and Mr Iason Fotilas, MP from the River, is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill: "Urgent measures to tackle violence in sport and other provisions" wants to give the state some legal means to address the worst manifestations of fanatic violence, so some of these measures would say they are very strict. As often happens in such cases, certain measures are failing, to the extent that they are in danger of being punished innocent. Article 1 establishes administrative penalties for sporting exclusion and financial fines for acts of violence for those who have an administrative relationship with sport, namely those who have a sporting recognition by the General Secretariat of Sports. Administrative penalties shall be imposed by the Minister responsible for sport. It also provides for the possibility of imposing an administrative fine for the same reason and for natural persons, but without distinguishing between persons who have an administrative relationship with sport and persons who have no such relationship. For groups, clubs and federations with sporting recognition, as well as for members of their administrations, even for shareholders of sports limited companies, this instrument of the administrative fine gives the Minister a strong means of direct application. But I do not see how the Minister can impose administrative fines on persons who are not administratively subject to his ministry. I therefore propose that the administrative fines to natural persons relate only to members of sports administrations and shareholders of sports limited companies. Individuals have to face up to their criminal responsibilities, as the law stipulates. In the same Article 1, paragraph 5, administrative fines are provided for in the press, form and electronics, for encouragement, incitement, encouragement or approval of incidents of sport violence. This is where I think the bill goes through a limit we shouldn't cross. He's trying to force censorship on the press. There are cases of press pushing into acts of violence that are criminally flattered. Let them engage in criminal justice. The administrative censorship of the press, however, is the beginning of a sliding downhill, which we must not take, and I would ask the Secretary-General to withdraw paragraph 5 of Article 1. I've asked him repeatedly. I cannot vote for it, however. Article 2 introduces from the next season electronic surveillance of ground with cameras and mandatory electronic rated ticket. That means we're going to make a ticket to the field, like a ticket to an airplane, name and position and ID number. These measures are at the limit of rigour, but if the conditions of n are respected. This measure can, in fact, help to combat violence on the ground. Article 3 provides for the punishment of all members of the group administrations who will make tickets available to clubs that do not operate legally. The problem is that once the ticket is electronic and nominal, as established in Article 2 of the bill, it is impossible for it to be made available to any club legally or non-legal. Article 2 effectively repeals Article 3. We shall either have the procedure referred to in Article 2 or have the procedure referred to in Article 3. Both procedures cannot be applied at the same time. One procedure excludes the other. Article 5 establishes football disciplinary bodies consisting solely of ordinary judges. This article is one of the most important articles in the entire bill. If you want, this article alone arrives to ensure a large proportion of unstable football championship. It is no coincidence, therefore, that everyone who wants to keep football controlled by specific economic interests is being shot here. Article 7 rightly acknowledges that often the problem behind football malignancy is the "stick" of games to win some of the sports bet. Therefore, the obligation of the NCA to transmit all relevant information available to the Ministry is now established and allows the Ministry to remove races from the OPCW's "PRODUCT" and transfer the time for competitions for which there is a suspicion of sexism. Finally, Article 15 has a long and bitter story. In 2006 the then Deputy Minister of Sports, Mr. Orphanus - yours, gentlemen of Anti-Population - presented the n. 3479/2006: ‘Institution, organisation and operation of sports associations and other provisions’, which regulated matters of professional sport. Under pressure from the NPV - good time, as today - it has retreated and included a provision that specifically excludes football from Greek sports legislation, allowing the NPV to run it as it wants as a state in state. Article 15 as it has been shaped now is very right, but we should be sure that it is formulated in such a way that there really is no possibility of blocking a Greek group from international events. Finally, I would ask the State Secretary, if even there is room, to correct his few and important weaknesses so much, but so much useful draft law. And a man tells you, Mr. Undersecretary, who really knows sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs Helen Alonitou. Mr Fotilles Jason, Member of the European Parliament from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I was informed of the intention of the Secretary-General to bring in a bill to deal with violence in sport, I thought that in the explanatory statement or at least in the speeches of the State Secretary there would be a serious attempt to analyse the phenomenon of violence. Let us be honest: In order to deal with the phenomenon, something more essential is needed, which this legislation does not touch, that is, the deep analysis of the phenomenon of hooliganism and its root causes before it comes to dealing with its consequences. But what does it mean, ladies and gentlemen, 'to deal with hooliganism'? It means first that I acquire deep knowledge of the problem, how it relates to other forms of violence that endures in Greek society. I'm learning what kind of incidental people I have to do. What their relationship is with the groups, what their action is, how they act as organisations. After all, five sports laws have been passed in Greece since 2000, almost all inapplicable. Yet there is still no mapping of hooliganism, not even a special police agency, which is seriously involved in this crime. Instead of this serious research and study, the leadership of the Ministry of Sport has chosen to bring about a regulation on violence in sport in the form of an emergency, so that neither the Ministry itself can make time to process the changes and test them officially. Proof and conclusion of this process is that the crook to discuss the bill today, without even being finalised now, after consulting UEFA. We have even reached the regulation of paragraph 3 of Article 1 of this draft law, but also of Article 5, one step before Grexit in sport, namely the exit of Greek teams from European events. Did it take a special trip from the Minister to Geneva on Monday and written assurances to UEFA to definitively leave the danger - it left? We will see that, of course, that, in addition to the schizophrenic element, the State Secretary was involved in demanding the introduction of the right to exclude groups from European organisations, and he knows that, if this is voted on, FIFA excludes us and therefore the right to disciplinary action does not exist. How can you rule out blocked teams? I would remind you that in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the Minister said: 'We have already sent the amendments to the international federations, because they have asked us to see our views on paper themselves. The government's bill is set for approval in a sovereign manner in the Greek Parliament. It's not for approval to anyone else. For consultation, yes. To be approved, no. It is a matter of national dignity and seriousness of the procedures followed by the Greek Parliament.’ It's a nice story, Minister, but there's no dragon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u148	The dragon's somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u149	Was there any chance in this consultation that he would do anything against the will of UEFA and FIFA? If so, why does he ask them? And if he accepted their suggestions, then what difference does the approval of consultation make? He knows and we know that if the Minister did not agree with the amendments to UEFA, he would lead the Greek groups - and the national - outside international organisations. Finally, it appears that the voice of reason prevailed. The Government accepted the amendments, at least to the greatest extent. It also appears that the Government and FIFA and UEFA agreed on a commonly accepted solution to the question of disciplinary bodies, in accordance with Article 5, with the establishment of judges proposed by the Court of First Instance, and by them the NCA will select who will serve its disciplinary bodies. But I return to the main question: does the Contonis Act give directions to the treatment of violence? I fear that, despite heavy announcements and good intentions, there will be difficult results. The electronic tickets and cameras, which are imported by Article 2, are now available for years and I hope, even now, that they will be implemented. However, the sentences of the houlghans are still too small. Nothing prevents their criminal activity from being organized outside the field. The State may impose fines on the groups, mainly for the purpose of revenues, which they will probably not pay, since they will in any event be running to the courts, questioning that they have the slightest involvement in what is happening. Groups such as Panathinaikos, for example, paid around 100,000 euros a fine. But I don't think if he pays even 300,000 euros, the guys with uniform jackets won't throw flares of time. They'll do it again, because most people want the mess. If they don't do it in football, they'll do it in basketball. By the way, there were again incidents in Panathinaikos - Olympiacos race with fans, without a word from the state. The women's volleyball, the polo...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u150	Not a word?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u151	I didn't hear anything, Minister. Maybe I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u152	And why should the state say something every time incidents occur, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u153	Can we talk about it later, so I won't waste my time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u154	It would be interesting to tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u155	Mr. Contonis, please don't interfere. Mr. Fotella, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u156	Thank you. What should the Minister do instead after a great deal of incidents, in our view? The next morning they should go to the Ministry of Public Order, inform the Minister, together to call the Attorney, Mr. Simizoglou, and ask him first to mobilise all the mechanisms of the state, to see what happened, to open archivist phones and, if necessary, involved in the history of factors, to investigate what was organized and how it was organised and demanded that some for interrogation, not to go to the self-declaration and then postpone and then go home, but to get the police to know the facts. A special body with good knowledge of electronic crime can easily map Greek hooliganism. With phone trackings, some targeted arrests, some of the nicknames of some secret policemen in the petals and "scanning" of various websites, the police would have a huge amount of information in time. By denouncing charges at a maximum of twenty gentlemen, he would have solved half the problem. The Undersecretary has included in the bill on our proposal - and it is good for this - the possibility for a team to compete in a sports facility that does not have an electronic supervision system, provided that spectators are not present. I shall say a few words about Articles 13 and 14, Madam President - and I shall close with them - which have been invaded and are irrelevant to this bill, as is unfortunately still the case with the government. I will talk about the abolition of the themes bank and the subsequent promotion with '9.5' and the replacement of lost teaching hours. We are voting against both articles. The selection of the themes of the school exams of high school through the random draw from a bank of themes was intended to make high school very reliable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me one more minute, Madam President, please. It was intended to force the teacher on the one hand to complete the material and on the other the student to study all the courses, since he had lost the opportunity to write on almost known subjects. Another purpose was to introduce the participation of the grade of high school in the selection of young students. Despite the problems in its implementation, it had changed the climate in schools in favour of upgrading teaching. Beyond a gift to trade unionists and teachers, the cancellation of the bank restores, in our view, the rules of rating to the old and failed model. If there was a chance that some would read and learn something from the taught objects, she is evaporating. High school disappears from an autonomous school unit and turns into a typical U.S. dormitories, as it used to be. The course will again be suspended in a dominant means of access to the HEIs and TEIs. The counter-reformation and regression are ahead of us. Furthermore, the committee was heard yesterday by SYRIZA Members who went beyond the french limit, such as the fact that the theme bank should be abolished, because it familiarizes children with capitalism and banks, 'the bank' - 'the banks'. When maintenance, ladies and gentlemen, meets deep ignorance, such results arise. The ruling party, too, but also part of the trade union leadership, supported, tolerated or guided, in the past, the seasonal occupations of schools by poor student minority groups with at least controversial demands. Perhaps the only factor that could block this scourge would be the extension of the school year, not as a means of punishment, but simply necessary for the proper completion of the curriculum. The replacement through one-day holidays or school tours, which is now returning under the arrangements laid down in Article 14, has been implemented in previous years and it has proved to be ineffective to many people. The shrinking of the actual teaching time under a hundred and sixty days a year is the main cause of the school's inability to execute its program. The legislator, however, is interested in what seems to be less school and more so-called revolution. It's objectively urging conquests. How long? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr Nikolaos Michalakis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not, of course, provide a comprehensive solution to the problem of violence, but it certainly constitutes the necessary dynamic intervention to deal with the extremes of violence in the field. A dynamic intervention, aimed at fighting corruption, which constantly strengthens criminal organisations, barricades and other stakeholders in Greek football, corruption that makes suspicion, breeds fanaticism and leads to blind violence threatening lives. It is certain that addressing the overall causes of the problem requires extensive reforms in many areas of social, economic and political life. Reforms that are commitments of the SYRIZA and expected government initiatives in the next period. Only then will we be able to deal with the complex social phenomenon of violence more effectively. A violence that is triggered through the stadiums, but is made out of them, within the suffocating framework of society. Of all the provisions introduced, I should like to mention briefly the following: Firstly, the possibility of imposing administrative sanctions - fines on anonymous sports companies, OPEs and OEMs, and other factors that cause or tolerate the expression of violence and racist hatred, and the possibility of the Minister responsible for deferring or interrupting competitions or championships. These are measures which mark a change of era for Greek sport, which for the first time link the infringement with economic sanctions, which would force the parties involved to redefined their position. Secondly, in the mandatory operation of electronic supervision systems on lands and a nominal electronic ticket, which, with the necessary proper use and respect for personal data, without restricting individual freedoms and rights, will make a crucial contribution to preventing phenomena of violence. Thirdly, the most important intervention concerning the administration of football disciplinary and judicial bodies with independent ordinary judges and prosecutors. In this way, fairness and independence in decision-making will be established and the trust of fans in justice and sport will be restored. I note here that autonomy cannot be understood and cannot be tolerated in a modern, favoured, democratic society. Neither for the ordinary citizen nor, of course, for the PDO and anonymous sports companies. It is the autonomy - uncontrolled, that is, from the state - and else the self-interest in football and the NGO, which has now become quite clear to everyone that the government respects it. I am also referring to the requirement to inform the competent Minister of the information concerning suspected race manipulation and the possibility of removing groups from the betting coupon or race postponement. Measures aimed at combatting the phenomenon of preconsensualism, which is, in the conduct of matches and bet fraud, which is a dynamic climate among fans. Imported measures are the first step and in conjunction with the forthcoming democratisation of the functioning of sports organisations and the NGO, by introducing the mere proportional as a permanent electoral system, will restore the confidence of the public's fan and will deviate the tension and the phenomena of violence. In conclusion, I note that it is a matter of modern, progressive legislative framework for sport, which will promote and ensure for all of us - and especially for young people - sport as a social asset, as a means of balanced physical and mental health for citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u159	We thank Mr Michalakis and his very proper use of time. Mr. Theodores Fortsakis has the floor and Mr. Synthrakis will follow. Here, Mr. Fortsakis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. I will not go into the various articles on which I have been thoroughly discussed. Because of the late hour, I will focus on the two articles on education, in particular on the bank of topics and on this to limit the time to rehabilitate the lessons that are lost. Before I speak about these specific articles, I would like to give a thought to the framework within which the changes which are being attempted today are being put into place. I think that both changes are included in the framework which is based on the dual 'equalisation of education downwards and strengthening of trade unionism and partyism in the field of education'. I'll explain why I'm saying this. The themes bank is an institution, which aimed at unifying the teaching material and setting out a framework for more general scrutiny of the issues that are being taught, in the sense that it ensured a range that was not previously available. The work of the theme bank may not have been the best possible. But the institution, in my opinion, was extremely useful. I think that before attempting to abolish this institution, we should have tried to assess its operation and assess it in a measurable way, that is to say, we have a study in detail, which shows us how this bank has operated, and what is the evidence that has made it difficult to implement. I know from my contact with new children that the subject bank has not always met the need for children to have been taught the whole of their material. I have already heard colleagues point out that it is not possible to ask children to examine what has not been taught. I fear that there is a problem at the heart of this thought, which is timeless and is not of the current government. I fear that this problem will be strengthened by the abolition of the theme bank. The problem is, our school children are used to memorization. Children have become accustomed to learning all the matter out and competing by making the best of what they can, learning without any critical thought. I think we should be moving towards strengthening the method and the way in which problems are approached and less towards transmitting information volumes. The theme bank should be used as a framework that encourages children to deal with many issues, without having to learn or memorize, but with a method which allows them to approach these issues. I am sure there would be a way to improve the situation without reaching the abolition of the issue bank. There is another fundamental issue here, the so-called 'autonomy' that we recognize in middle school schools. Autonomy in teaching is a constitutionalally guaranteed institution for universities, but for high school and high school institutions it is not recognized nor can it be accepted in substance. Because of course we recognise that our teachers and teachers have a very important role to play. Their personality, their knowledge, the way in which everyone approachs children is decisive for how children learn. But the matter they will teach, the way they will teach, the approach method and the monitoring of all of them cannot be entrusted to them. There should be somewhere outside of them. The existence of the themes bank has contributed in this direction. The '9.5' that was chosen to strengthen the flow of students' successes is like having chosen - I said it and in the debate that we had in committee with the Minister - to change the temperature above which we believe someone is a patient. So, if we have a lot of patients, say only those with a fever greater than 39 and then suddenly fewer? ‘9,5’ is an indicator. It has no value itself. Whether to be ‘9,5’ or ‘10,5’ or ‘8,5’ is not important. The important thing is that we accept that there is no longer a minimum under which we can fall. ‘10’ could be given to more. It is important to realise that it is not so important to raise or increase the degree to which children achieve or not. It is important to help children get up and approach the least desirable we want to achieve through school teaching. We cannot achieve this by reducing the degree. The fact that we have to make it easier for children and the flow of pupils at school is undeniable. But the way we do it is decisive for their further progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u161	There has to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u162	There could be a set-off of successes, we could accept that there is no need to succeed in all lessons, that they have succeeded in some, that there is the possibility of covering a child a gap he has, if it falls to a certain degree compared to another. But to accept that there is a minimum under which we cannot go and see how we will strengthen those children who cannot reach the minimum. Let's see how, help them get to it and get over it. If I am not mistaken, Minister, there was also a question of funding the theme bank. The bank had been financed by the ESRB with 8 million euros if I'm not mistaken. Will this review of the institutional question give rise to this money? It is something I do not know, but it would be a real shame to find ourselves in such a situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u163	You need to see this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u164	I imagine the Minister will see that. The explanatory statement on this point, namely the '9.5' I am now discussing, is characteristic because it speaks of removing distortions in the educational process and restoring equal opportunities between school units. However, I repeat that in no way should that be done downwards. The explanatory statement on this point, namely the '9.5' I am now discussing, is characteristic because it speaks of removing distortions in the educational process and restoring equal opportunities between school units. However, I repeat that in no way should that be done downwards. I now come to the question of Article 14, which provides that if the tours are to be cut, the multi-day tours will be cut and holidays will be cut. Of course, it is right that this cut should be made, but it does not make sense to limit it only to the replacement of the missing courses. We must start from the very basic principle that everything that is lost must be replaced. If he can be replaced in this way, he's fine. However, if it cannot, provision should be made for the prolongation of teaching time. And I am afraid that the explanatory statement in the bill is revealing here. It aims, in the explanatory memorandum, to regulate this in the restoration of a good atmosphere of cooperation between all the members of the educational community. So I read that we did not want to be sad at the teachers if we were to spend time eating them off holidays and restoring the relationship, we prefer children to be oppressed, and we in the bill that they should be replaced within a quarter or four months - I do not understand this controversy, but that's what the provision says - but it's not what will happen if we don't do it, because we don't have so many holidays or we don't have so many working days. I would point out - and I close with this - that it is extremely heavy and bureaucratic the procedure laid down for restoring the hours lost, since the forecast is that the manager should mobilise the school board, that one should, after discussing it, propose to the director of the secondary education director, and that will result in the regional director. It could be a simpler process. In conclusion, I fear that these changes should be more studied, based on a real study of measurable sizes. I fear that these changes are changes that lead us to equate our education downwards, abandoning excellence, and strengthen union in the field of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. Mr Synthrakis Emmanuel, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u166	Thank you, Madam President. And a turbulence is the glove, and the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence is the wrong thing. It is a throttle anyway, because we are living in a cruel, unfair exploitation system, where basic social rights - such as sport, education, health, culture - have become a commodity. The SYRIZA - ANEL coup d'état which at least two bills, not to mention everything that has come to date and the legislative acts, does not touch the substance and the reasons why sport has become a commodity, with all these consequences of violence, entrepreneurship, doping and everything I shall mention below. We must not, of course, lose sight of the fact that the area of education has become salted by entrepreneurial action within the framework of the rules and guidelines laid down by the European Union. You're talking about a transition. He said: "We are going to deal with the bad texts in the field of sport." Yeah, but you're not telling us how these bad texts were produced, and if only by fragmentary moves, you will face the problems in the field of sport, especially in football. Mr. Kourakis comes to the committee for two days, in which we discuss the draft law on education and says that we urgently need to look at some issues and we will see later in a total of two years the examination, our understanding and our opinion on the issues of education. This tactic of transitionability and "within time we will see the issues" is a friendly tactic of co-government, as it has done so far with all the legislation that it has brought to the Greek Parliament. You did not get the impression that Mr Tsipras' meeting with Juncker today is the preface of the final agreement that will emerge within a few days. EVIA is not abolished, VAT increases, sustainable insurance, which means hand to supplementary pensions and a whole lot of others. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these legislative initiatives in no way touch the essence of the matter. Coming to this draft law that we are discussing, on sport, I would like to say that, when sport in the name of professionalism has turned into a complete merchandise that coexists with the laws and rules of the market economy and entrepreneurship, then in the near future we will all become macabre witnesses to a murder for the color of the jersey, an image of an athlete from the use of anabolics, in order to meet the increased demands of the races. This bill takes a number of necessary and necessary measures to tighten up penalties, controls, repression, some institutional interventions concerning justice, the Standing Committee on Violence. And of course, as a Communist Party of Greece, we will vote for these. However, despite the innovations it introduces to deal with the bad texts that are blackening the product, it is far from the vertical break with the logic of today's sporting structure. It does not touch or avoid, better, to highlight the causes that produce and reproduce violence. If he touches these issues, the reasons, that is, the coup d'état knows that the whole system, the whole system, is in danger, a system of oaths of faith, taking into account what the government has already said and what the European Union considers to be a common European home, and that the relationship with European capitalists must not be lost and disturbed. So in the name of professional sport, everything is sacrificed for the donor's warm money, and the athlete is considered as a product that brings the company profits or losses, depending on its performance. Record terms, medals, discrimination, contracts, trophies, wages, sponsorships, PAIs, presidents, anabolics have raped the true concept of sport. Humanism, the speech and joy that coexist with sport have been completely distorted by professionalism and badly-intentioned sporting, since every one man who first enters a field, in a field of sport, is disciplined with the aim of strengthening individualism, competition and with the ultimate aim of watering his conscience that the achievement of victory is an end in itself. Young people who have never been through their school - from primary school, yet - have not taught the true values of sport and who cannot be sported, since school sport is nonexistent, tomorrow these young children will be serving the organized army of the ODP and in the name of their so-called defender of their favourite team will be broken, burned, killed - if necessary - the one that the president of the ODP will have indicated as an enemy. And you're all nervous. Crocodile tears for Yakoumakis. You're all interested in Yakoumakis. You're interested in the bullying. Televisions, Ministers, NGOs and NGOs are propagandaing European programmes of many millions, allegedly, to deal with bullying. And a people accepts this bullying every day, fear and terror if we leave the fold. The aim of the system is therefore that young people should be manipulated and dismantled within the scarfs and tiles and stay away from the real stakes, which are the struggles for the right to work. It is no coincidence that all governments at times have met requirements of the OAUs and other business groups, when the people are sighing and ungrateful they pay taxes and ravages. It is well known how many IAEAs have entered for their huge debts in the arrangements and procedures provided for in Article 44 as well as in other specific arrangements. It is well known that today all the OSCEs owe. But that's not sport, that's the law of the jungle. This "sporting" is leading to the activity of every community in the neighborhood and devaluing sport at school, with the loss of the new generation. However, the essence is that once again you are avoiding engaging with the phenomenon on the basis of the cause - cause and its connection to the logical and unscrupulous hunting for the success of the sporting structure today. And we have several examples, such as that of Great Britain, which took the violence out of the stadiums, but this violence was taken to the neighborhood. In the view of the Communist Party of Greece, a definitive solution will only be given if the rotten business structures of sport are dissolved, if an amateur sport based on the state is created, which will provide those necessary to build mass, popular sport. But in times of monopolies, poverty, drugs, unemployment, violence in the fields coexist and this relationship is founded on the existence of everyday, social, labour oppression, a sign that rotten society is drowning in its boulder and is trying to survive, afflicting death. The violence in the stadiums also has such a sad phenomenon. I will remind you of last year's event and the death of a fan in the struggle of Herodotus - National at Heraklion, Crete. So this is competition for the profit that destroys people and values. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the people and youth are invited to play a leading role. The working people's and neo-liberal movement must highlight the need for sport focused on human beings and the fulfilment of their sporting needs and balanced physical and mental development, doing the "healthy minds in the body". So, today, it is the massive, popular sport that requires popular intervention. It is necessary that the pioneer fighters from the field of sport as well as the popular movement contribute to the formation of consciences, in which phenomena, such as violence, gambling and the power of the powerful, businessmen and the coercion will not have a place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. I would like to inform the House that seven speakers have left for tomorrow. The positions of the parliamentary representatives and the Minister also remain. It has also been mentioned that a request for a roll-call vote will also be tabled, which means - as anticipated - that we will start the legislative work around 12: 00 to 12: 30. So the speakers who have left to be here. Then we shall continue the roll-call vote and all the rest. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S2-commons.u168	With the agreement of the House at 23.00 noon, the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, May 7, 2015, at 9.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny: reading reports and discussing topical questions; and (b) legislative work: 1) Voting in the whole draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Democratisation of Administration - Combating Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoring injustices and other provisions" and 2) Continue discussion and vote on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Existing measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions".
