ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The third question will be discussed by number 198/23-11-2015, the first question by the Member of Parliament, Etolocarnania of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of the single payment to farmers for 2015. Mr. Barbarousis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u2	Minister, at the end of November farmers are expected to credit the beneficiaries' accounts for 70% of the basic payment in 2015, while the remaining 30% will be paid by the end of December. However, on the basis of the new CAP, there will be a further reduction in agricultural subsidies. The amount of the subsidy will be retained by tax debts for income tax, including HISA, by ELGA of 70%, as well as any old debts to OGA. In fact, 20% of the tax due is added to the tax advance, which automatically increases the rate of taxation by 10% and ultimately amounts to 30%. After all, a minimum amount to be recovered is expected, so that farmers may not receive a single euro or even remain in debt and not be redeemed. When will a single payment be made to farmers - because it has also been completed in November - and what will be the reduction provided for in the new CAP to be made? Will the single payment be withheld on the basis of the total amount or 70% of that corresponding to the basic subsidy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues - of course, I have said this before in Parliament - on the advance payment of the single payment, because we have the implementation of a new common agricultural policy - and we all know that - the data has changed. That is why there is also a relative delay, especially when new data are available for our country, especially for pastures and grazing land, and I would say that more documentation is needed. And already the control carried out in October by the European Union's tiles found us that we are okay, we have no problem and we will normally be paid without any problem, and the farmers will also be paid. I would like to point out, however, that so far no country in the European Union other than Ireland - Ireland's data are completely different in relation to the countries in particular of the South - has yet to make an advance on the single payment. And since our side is programming, a programming, which is already in progress at this time in another type of payment - let us not forget that there are loose ends in 2008, 2009, 2010 - our Ministry's programming to support and strengthen the liquidity of agricultural and livestock production is currently focusing on the timely payment and payment of all aids up to 2012 and 2013 and 2014. So all of them by mid-December will be settled, they will have been paid. Suffice it to say that, for example, the Public Investment Programme has already committed EUR 243 000 000 for compensation payments in 2014 and 2015. We were committed to giving 70% advances at the end of November. We are ready, but because we can, in accordance with Regulation 1306/2013, make payments - because the relevant regulation says that between 1 December and 30 June next year - we have chosen, instead of paying 70% of the advance at the end of November, to go three - four days later and pay 90%. In other words, on 4 December there will be 90%. And because you're putting the issue of retention, I want to make it clear one thing that their amount is due will be paid in full in their bank account. Also, in the same period, ELGA compensation will be paid at the same time as State aid from the ESDP, over EUR 45 million and EUR 50 million. In other words - so that farmers can understand it - the countryside from the beginning of December and, of course, by 15, that is, all this time, will have a total payment of at least over 1.3 billion. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Barbarousis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Look, Minister, delaying four - five days, as you said, and instead of 70% being paid, that is very good. The truth is, the rural world expects some money to come in, too, to make holidays. But I asked you more about why, at the time the OGA, ELGA, alpha, beta, enter the farmer's booklet and take what's missing, I don't think that's very good. More than that, I asked the question that farmers would hear that they would still be withheld by a lot of money, that they might get into the 8.10 grand booklet, but in their pocket they might not get a franc and they might also be in debt. That's it. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u8	As far as their obligations to the insurance funds and their insurer are concerned, because there is a problem at this time, especially with the OGA, in a debate with the OGA commander, we agreed, because the deadline is ending on 30 months, that there should be a small extension - because we were simply unable to make payments in the time available - so that they could meet their specific obligations. With the money that will be paid they will be able to cover their obligations. From there on to matters relating - which you have raised - in particular with the new common agricultural policy, there is the following specificity: it is less the amount provided for in the new CAP. Of course, the 30% reduction will not reach us. The percentage will be much smaller. Already since the first year, we have a 10% reduction, 12% and will be gradually reduced, but not in this amount. This is a debate on the new CAP - that is, we are saying'revision' - we can only do in 2017. There, then, we are preparing to highlight one particular thing, that the new CAP was calculated on the basis of the 2008 GDP, which has nothing to do with what we have today. This is a powerful weapon to ask for an increase in the amount that concerns us. As we will also call for the review - and we are now doing it in the relevant debates - to simplify the procedure and, above all, to use our special amounts for the second pillar, in accordance with the planning we have. From there on, of course, what I would like to say again - and I repeat - is that we, on historical rights, are those relating to subsidies, particularly to traditional crops that our country needs, will fight, because they have also been affected by this process. We're making moves, you see, we're talking. On Monday there will be a very serious intervention in the field of livestock farming in relation to grazing land. We have a strategic planning, and I believe that what is common to everyone that it is the rural area that can contribute to the productive reconstruction of the country, we will serve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u9	Before we move to the second topical question, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food "Bossible land and other provisions". We are therefore entering the discussion of the fourth question under number 201/24-11-2015, the second timely question of the President of Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the Minister's decision at the meeting of the Council of Agriculture Ministers of the European Union at the expense of Greek olive oil. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. In recent years the government's policy has been unfolding, which unfortunately aims and strikes everything creative and productive in this place that has managed to stand up to the times of the crisis. It is not enough, however, to overtax and increase contributions. Unfortunately, it also interferes with prices. In the previous period olive oil prices decreased for two main reasons: The first reason is that the Ministry of Rural Development, the Minister, personally, announced that it was decided to introduce another thirty-five thousand tonnes of Tunisian olive oil into the European Union. The second reason is that, while every year at the end of October - early November, the advance payment of the subsidy was paid, this year we have an unjustified delay. For the first time in December, the advance has not been paid, and producers are forced to sell their products directly, to meet living needs, tax obligations, hundreds of instalments and everything else that is burdening family planning. But let us see, Minister, what you have done or what you have not done the previous period. The decision of the General Affairs Council on 17 September had to be finally adopted by the European Parliament and the Agriculture Council. The European Parliament will meet on 1 February and you have time, if you have a position, to inform Members and ask them to vote against. But let us see your own responsibility, your participation in the Agriculture Council. On 16 November you participated in person, unless you have a double personality because you said that someone else was involved. You had the right to veto and you didn't exercise it. On the contrary, you agreed on the decision of 17 September to introduce another thirty-five thousand tonnes of Tunisian olive oil. Because, for the reasons you will explain to us, you have not so far taken any steps that will block this decision, what will you do to the next Agriculture Council? You'll say 'all right, we're wrong, we're changing position'. In addition, has the market been disturbed by this decision, by this communication alone and will you ask for a review of the matter? Do you have the will to do it? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Kegeroglu, you tried to pry your question. I am, however, obliged, because a great deal of noise has been created, to refer to what your question says. So you say: 'At the recent meeting of the Agriculture Council of the European Commission, you have joined us - you mean me - with our competitors as the oil producer country. What led you to consent to a decision against olive oil?' You did this, Mr Kegeroglu, despite the fact that you knew - and I stress it - that there is no decision nor has there been a meeting of the Agriculture Council on this matter. What exists - and you know it - is a proposal from the European Commission from 17 September 2015, that is, from the pre-election period, when the government was responsible. I personally - because you referred to me - was running in the villages of Greece, Evia, in the context of the election campaign. The proposal states that the relevant Committee on International Trade will take the decision on 25 January 2016 and the plenary session of the European Parliament on 1 February 2016. Secondly, you know that in all the current discussion procedure on the proposal, such as in the Committee on Political Trade on 2 October, in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 12 November and others, the Greek side has raised serious objections and concerns about the consequences of the measure. At the meeting of the Committee of Experts in the Fruit and Vegetables on 27 October, the Greek delegation voted against, together with Italy, Portugal and Cyprus, the abolition of the monthly limits - because that is the big problem - the introduction of the fifty-seven thousand tonnes of Tunisian olive oil which, as you know, is already provided for by a decision of 2006. Although the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development does not decide, but submits an opinion to the Committee on International Trade, at its meeting on 1 December, it has been instructed by the Greek delegation to take a negative position. Thirdly, you know very well that in the recent Agriculture and Fisheries Council, which you call on, and which took place on 16 November 2015, there was no question of Tunisian olive oil, and of course - and I stress it again - no decision was taken. However, I personally, in view of Commissioner Hogan's trip to many countries on world trade, have referred in particular to the issue of European Union tariff concessions, standing on our sensitive products and stressing that the effects of such concessions on European producers, such as the recent case for the additional duty-free quota of thirty-five thousand tonnes of Tunisian olive oil, should be carefully considered. If you are questioning this, I shall submit to the Minutes all the relevant reports of the European Commission, so that the Greek Members can also be informed. And, of course, I have spoken many times, Mr Kegeroglu, about the consequences of the problem with the European Commission's international agreements with third countries, which unfortunately does not take into account and does not discuss with the Agriculture Council, in which I personally participate, and I am constantly asking for the question that - as you already know - we have it - we have managed by the previous government in the field of feta. We give great battles right now, to see how the monograph that exists will be overthrown. You can understand that the difficulties with other countries, with which debates are taking place at this time, are very great because they consider it to be a given one and they are touching on this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u13	Good, Minister, you'll have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u14	So we fight. We are dealing with them in a way that we are defending agricultural production, because above all, as I have said a thousand times, it is a point of reference for our own policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u15	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u16	For the feta I'll ask you another day a question. You said nothing to us why you left farmers without aid until now, with two months' delay. Nothing, filthy! Now, let's come and see who's lying, because the lies really have short feet, as you say in your announcement, and the damage has been done. You are in charge of those who have complained about your announcement. You consider those who have complained about price reduction to be responsible. Prices were already reduced by your own announcement. You first announced, on 27 October, that thirty-five thousand tonnes of Tunisian olive oil were imported, and even in writing, with your signature, without saying that this is a recommendation and without saying in your document that this is under the approval of the European Parliament. And you come today to cause confusion! No, Mr Apostlelos, this is the document, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. So your document, dated 27 October, says in particular: 'In the Council, Spain agreed to the proposal, Portugal agreed, but spoke to suspend the measure in the event of a disturbance on the market, Italy opposed the measure. For our part, Greece was put positively against this exceptional measure in favour of stability in Tunisia." Below it says the remarks and at the end it says "Despite our country's expressed position, the Council approved the increase in the quota by thirty-five thousand tonnes for the next two years. The Minister, Vaggelis Apostleou." Another is the Gospel Apostle and Vangelis? Minister, tell me the truth. We have not given proper consideration. You did not give due consideration! In the Council of Ministers of 16 November, when you referred to the impact, you said nothing about what needs to be changed. You didn't veto. You did not think that this should be reviewed. And I tell you that the decision of 17 September must be passed by two institutions, not only from the European Parliament but also from the Council. So on the board, I think that the pure Greek position can finally come in, not to avert your words. You didn't veto on November 16th. Will you do it next? You're blocking the decision? What are you going to do with the MEPs? Will you call on them to tell them that 'the Greek position is to vote against and I ask you to vote against, because we have appalling prices'? Will you do so even now, say that Greece will fight to block the decision not to continue the flooding, or will you continue to beat Greek products for the benefit of imports? Is that your role? This is the role of another minister to regulate the market. It is your role to protect the agricultural products and the pain of the farmer, and you do not, Mr Apostleo. You're in charge of this, if you're aware of it. The oil producers consider you to be responsible. Even now, please state that in the next few days, you will start and take advantage of every possibility, legal and political, to stop this decision that is fatal to the Greek olive producer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I did not want to exacerbate the situation. I referred to facts. There is no Council of Agriculture Ministers to discuss this issue on 16 November, which I referred to, giving a particular tone to this issue. I shall submit a specific document in the Minutes. You are still on, Mr Kegeroglu, but I will not really follow you to the ghellistic tactics you are following, because say - say something will stay. I mentioned earlier in detail, but - I have told you before - you are lying, and in this case you are not just lying, but you are serving certain interests and those interests are trying at the heart of the olive-growing season, creating a panic of olive growers, leading them to the sale of their production. This is what you are serving with in this regard. I'm sorry, but that's how I'll tell you. You have accepted to be a portrayer of these interests in the House. This is what you do with this practice, because you have been able to deal with too many issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u19	You're terrible. You told Petrako the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u20	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u21	I told you ten cases where...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u22	You disgusting! You disgusting! You disgusting!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Kegeroglu, you don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u24	I told you ten cases...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u25	You're a sucker! You're a sucker! You said the same thing to Petrakos!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Kegeroglu, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u27	... appointed delegation, voted against, said no. I told you this was an order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u28	Petrakos and Messinia know you better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u29	I tell you there has been no decision. That is what we will tell our MEPs. That's what we'll say everywhere. We're vertically opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u30	Prices collapsed 15 days ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u31	But this tactic in your compatriots, keep in mind that other interests you serve rather than theirs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u32	Representative for the importers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're ignoring the Bureau!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u34	We've done too much for the space and we're still doing it. Do not shout for the simple reason that you apply the same practice to the House. I told you and I repeat that the lie is close to legs. The damage is done by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u35	Representative for the importers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Kegeroglu, finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u37	I'm not going to watch you anymore. For olive oil we've made so many...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u38	You're a representative of the importers! Marry, Minister of Agriculture!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u40	Well, you'll let me finish. I have heard and said again: come to your attention, Mr Kegeroglu. These behaviors seriously affect your compatriots. For olive oil right now, we're making a great effort. We already give 11 to 12 million every year. We have 33 million ready for the promotion of olive oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u41	You're a representative of the importers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Kegeroglu, you don't have the floor! It's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u43	Who is a representative and what interests he serves, because you also have a course behind you and as a party, know that the world, which he has rewarded you accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u44	We are going through the discussion of the fourth under number 196/23-11-2015 timely question of the first cycle of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the restoration of the National Theatre of Rhodes. Mr Baltas will answer the timely question. Mr Kremastinos has the floor to develop his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, Minister, the question concerns a very serious issue because it is not a local but a national one. It is the National Theatre of Rhodes located in the central square of Rhodes, opposite the city hall and the prefecture. Millions of tourists visiting Rhodes every year see it collapse. Eventually, it collapsed. This was a building that was a jewellery for Europe - since the Italian occupation in 1937 - and an architectural building of such a kind, with such acoustics, that for that time only existed in the largest, if you like, theatres of Europe. His headphone was such that no one could reach it at that time. Of course, the years are over. No maintenance took place. Slowly this theatre collapsed and finally collapsed. Today, that is, it's a ruin. It's located, I repeat, in the center of the square. I've got the picture I'm going to testify to the minister. Of course, the Minister is not responsible. The question does not mean parliamentary scrutiny to the Minister. It has the meaning of what the Ministry of Culture can do, so that, despite the economic circumstances, the Ministry of Finance can do something to prevent this disgrace for the country. It is not just for Rhodes or the Dodecanese, but for the country, when the Italians who built it - by occupation, with fascist status, do not matter - come today, pass under and see it with a scepticism for us, namely the Greeks. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of Mr. Vice-President hits the warning bell.]] This is, therefore, an issue which I really would ask the Minister to do what he can, because it seems that neither the region has any money nor the municipality. This will therefore be pending and hunger for eternity. So the request is clear and concrete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u46	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u47	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Cremastino for the question. These are questions which help us all understand the general structure of the government, the municipalities, the regions, etc., in relation to such issues and allow us all to know important things that exist in our country and for various reasons remain in a situation such as the one you describe about the National Theatre Rhodes. The clarification I have to give you is this: First of all, the theatre belongs to the municipality and it is the responsibility of the municipality, its maintenance, etc. From there on, through a municipality, it can go to the region so that it can, if we want, join a ESDP programme and finance its maintenance and rehabilitation properly. I know that the municipality has submitted a study to the Ministry in order, regardless of the NRP, and to the extent that there is money for such assistance to the municipalities, that the restoration study should even go ahead. This study has been submitted in 2014. As far as we know from our Services, a number of comments have been made on the completion and completion of the service which did not take place from 2014 until today. What we ask of the municipality in terms of study is specific things. As long as this is completed and once it is completed, we may be able to see more about the State's survival interventions and theatre. But, in our view, the main point at the moment is to join the new RDP programme that is part of the region. From there on, of course, we, to the extent that the region so requests, want to move in this direction. I say that because there are a lot of questions in this regard. The new ESDP programme is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, as is the work that will be done there. It is the responsibility of the regions. We are in a permanent debate with the district managers, we see them in the Ministry one by one, so that issues like this can be discussed, restored to an image of what the whole region wants, discussed with them what they are ahead of them and then, so that the new NSRC can resolve these issues as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u49	What I do know or have heard is that there are committed 3 million from the previous NSRP in the region. I haven't heard of that. If they do exist, this will be the starting point - let me be allowed to speak. But if they do not exist, then I will agree with you. But what I would like to add, and the meaning of the question is this, is that the Ministry of Culture must put more pressure on the region and possibly the Ministry of Finance to end this story, which has gone too far. It's good to finish this. I'm going to say something that's fragile, but it's real for the previous government. It's done, thank God. Thirteen years the only electric ladder of Rhodes airport, where it spends four to five million tourists a year. Imagine it! It took five consecutive questions in the House to work the stairs after thirteen years. Do you know how this story happened? I'll tell her to stay in the Minutes of the House. I heard two foreigners, English tourists, talking to each other ironically, scorningly and saying "They are here", that is, we Greeks, "Look at their mess". They said there's been so many years coming to Rhodes, and the ladder still doesn't work. Think, one who was handicapped or one who was heart diseased or could not climb the stairs, which was about three hundred: they had to take him on the ground floor to get him out to the plane, at an international airport with traffic - I repeat - four and a half to five million people a year. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President hits the warning.]] Well, these things, which, unfortunately, are over time, it is good to see them in the House as well to push more pressure on the government in question. We have to, because this thing is timeless, that is not today's government or yesterday's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u50	Yes, sir! This is the ninth miracle after the Colossus of Rhodes. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u51	We agree. That is why I have said from the outset that these questions are very good, because they give all of us awareness of where the country lies to some extent, regardless of governments. I haven't seen the district chief yet. It's on the next date. We are running as long as we can close the previous NSRPs so that we can see what has happened and are done, what it is compulsory to go through the next NSRP and at the same time to see the new strategy. I believe that we are on the right track in relation to a set of regions and projects. But, especially for your own region, I still have no direct knowledge and information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of Agia Paraskevi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are going to the fifth with number 207/24-11-2015, a top-level question by Attica MEP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on ensuring the mandatory remuneration of the practical exercise of the students of the IEK and the safeguarding of their working and insurance rights. Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns an issue which, in our view, comes to heighten the current situation of thousands of young workers in our country with unemployment, part-time work, unpaid work and all this working jungle that exists today. And as if not all of this were enough, there is a joint ministerial decision, which lays down rules that the practice of trainees in the public IEC is now compulsory, while before being optional. In fact, the payment of this practice is not compulsory. Article 1 of the Joint Ministerial Decision says that the practical exercise can be paid. So while, to date, there have been even some duplicate contracts between the trainees and employers in what was in existence, this is now even questionable. Thus, the road opens for the total unpaid work of thousands of public IEK students. Furthermore, Article 2 of this Ministerial Decision will not apply to insurance rights, except for insurance in the case of an accident, which will still be borne by public IEC. I would remind you that public IEKs have not yet started courses. Some people started this week and most of them have made announcements that they will start lessons next week due to the shortages, sub-financing and all of this. This scheme will be charged and any insurance is provided for those who are trained in the public IEC. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This joint ministerial decision is unacceptable and unfaithful. Of course, and in order not to blame you, I would like to say that it was established by the service government which existed from the dissolution of the House until the elections were held. But it's not gone yet. It's not gone! And given that, Minister, the Memorandum of Understanding on Labour is fully in line with the policy and logic of this joint ministerial decision, we fear that there is no intention of abolishing it. The question therefore is whether the Government intends to abolish this joint ministerial decision which opens the way or rather establishes the unpaid work of the public IEKs and, of course, whether there is any intention of the Government to establish that this exercise will be carried out by constituted rights, collective agreements and insurance rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u54	The Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u55	I am glad you said that this joint ministerial decision was not ours, because one of our concerns is to amend it. The point is that we wanted the practical exercise to be compulsory and also to have payment for it. That is what we will do and these amending provisions are under way. But you know very well that at this time it is very difficult for students to find employers to take them for practical exercise, no matter how much we oblige them. That's a problem. We are amending the joint ministerial decision, but we have this problem. And I say it, to see what's actually happening. Secondly, as far as insurance rights are concerned, because for us, insurance rights are one of the most important, which must be safeguarded, and in order not to create a stimulus and not to find students - because I insist that we have this problem - employers to whom to do their practical work, are not public IECs. INEDIABIM has been charged with paying 1% for students to be insured. And I come to one last thing I would like to say. We have guaranteed student funding - compensation, I would say - EUR 800 to beneficiaries so that they can cover some of their expenses. I am not saying that it is the best, but it is what can be ensured right now. In any case, I fully agree with you that when someone does his practice, especially when it is compulsory - but is not - he should, when he is working, be normally paid for what he is working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u56	Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u57	We would like a more specific and clear answer from the Minister when this joint ministerial decision will be abolished, once the government has agreed that this is an unacceptable ministerial decision, which introduces the unpaid work of the students of the IEK. Because we are already two months and it is not a law that needs to come and be discussed, and so on, a joint ministerial decision is, an act of executive power, it simply has to be repealed. Because until it is abolished, there is the framework, right now that we are talking, IEK students working as recorders and not being paid. So we want a clear answer. Until when the Joint Ministerial Decision will be repealed. Now, in relation to the rest, we are not in the mandatory exercise. We believe, of course, that the practical exercise - within the framework of a differently reshaped technical vocational training and not the one that exists today - must be an organic part of the students' studies, in public IEKs and elsewhere. The point is that the current status currently in existence in relation to practice has nothing to do with practice. There are branches here, such as tourism, where hotels are practicable, which for six months of work that are doing normal - that is, they cover vacant jobs - are paid EUR 300 and 400, they work ten and twelve hours, and not, of course, this five-hour period, which is provided for the practical exercise - and while on the basis of the collective agreement for the worker, they should receive EUR 1 000 and 1,200, they are paid at EUR 200, with EUR 300 and not at all the present status and not at all. In other words, when I say the present regime, I mean on the basis of the joint ministerial decision. Secondly, has there ever been control over the fact that the practicer actually works on his subject? They're being thrown at their business, they're doing everything but what's provided for in their objects. So here, of course, the joint ministerial decision must be abolished. Of course, we want a concrete answer to when. However, it is not to go back to the former regime that existed and there is today, in fact, unpaid work. So in these issues when, where, and where, the regime will be, we want a more specific answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u59	I don't think we're late. Okay, two months seems like a lot of them, but it wasn't just this joint ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u60	But it's nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u61	You know how many ministerial decisions were to be abolished during both the Service Government and previous governments. Unfortunately, I cannot give you a clear answer, to tell you in three days we will have abolished it. Because there was a matter of competence - it is not my responsibility - so whatever I say now I do not want to be disproved. I don't want to tell you 'in two days' and don't. The second thing you say about the middle-aged working population is that I fully agree with you. Of course, I disagree on one point. Exercise must be compulsory. I mean, if a man is training in confectionery, I don't understand how he's not going to go to the tourist business and to all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u62	We didn't say it wouldn't go because it did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u63	Yeah, I get it. I'm just saying that the practice must be compulsory. The question here, Mr Gioka, is not about the Ministry of Education, it does not have the mechanisms. Of course, it says that the practice has to be paid and all that. You tell me if in cases and in most businesses - and especially in tourist professions, regardless of practice - no person is normally paid. That's the big problem. We do everything we can to put in place, if the other person doesn't want to pay, it's not the Ministry of Education's responsibility to check, it's the Ministry of Labour's responsibility from there on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u64	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u65	This is what we predict and we will predict that the practice is being properly paid. It's a matter of employers. I don't renounce responsibility by saying this thing. What I am saying, however, is that as many ministerial decisions as the other person is normally paid, the employer must agree on that. And what does that work? We as a Ministry of Education to grant students as much as we can with the budget we have to cover at least that of the practical exercise. And this is not just about public or private IEKs. It can also be done at other levels of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too. The second question under number 211/24-11-2015 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Eleftherios Aygeakis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the delay and problems in the financing of the ‘Irakliou - Mesara Road’ project, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible and deleted. Also, the sixth question under number 193/23-11-2015, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the River Mr. Georgios Amyrias, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the position of the Ministry for the PPC's request for free allocation of emission allowances to lignite generation, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and deleted. Next is the second under number 212/24-11-2015 upcoming question of the second question of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of public IEC. Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I address you on a matter of great concern and concern to young people, our children, who have graduated from high school. I am referring to public IECs, which must provide students with free training in qualifications that are relevant to the needs of the labour market. In order to fulfil this objective, functional and executive structures are required. Sadly, however, reality is a paradox. I would remind you, Minister, that in the first half of last year, twenty-six thousand children were enrolled in the public IEK throughout the country. So you realise the importance of the Greek society. And you know very well that the kids who go to IEKs and especially to public IEKs are the ones that didn't go to the university and who have no other way out. And the state has given them this way through public IEK. I am in favour of public and private IEK. And you know it very well. And I tell you, too, publicly and openly, but it cannot be based on the non-operation of the public. So I say again, Minister, that under the Rules of Procedure of the Public and Private IEK, "The teaching year at the Institutes of Vocational Training begins on 1 October". Every year they started the first week of October. We are at the end of November. The procedures for the recruitment of educational staff have not been completed. I hear that Wednesday under the responsibility of the Directors of the IEK, some IEK started running. So while the lessons should have started early October, we're going to start this week or next and we're seeing. This is irregular and has a strong negative impact on the educational process. I remind you that according to the law and the Rules of Procedure of the IEK... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'll take the time from my dentistry. ...three hundred teaching hours should take place in every six months, in winter and in the spring. Each semester includes twelve to fifteen weeks, again according to the law. And the law says that in the six months it should be completed only by 15 February for the winter and by 30 June for the spring. So tell me, Minister, why is the delay in the process of opening up the public IEKs? What is the result of the delay in the recruitment of teachers? How will the lost hours of teaching be covered? When will teachers' prizes be paid for the previous year, for 2014-2015? Why has their payment not yet been completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u68	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. In public, above all, IEK attach great importance to us as a government. And this is evidenced by the fact that, from January last year until now, some sixteen public IEKs have been opened in addition throughout the country. So we're also very important. There has indeed been a delay this year, but not the delay you say, because public IEC never started working on 1 October. On October 1, the notices were made and started to work around 10 to 15 November. I have all the evidence, and I can present it to you. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So there won't be any lost hours. I have asked INEDIBIM and they have taken a list to replace the hours and, as you will see, there will be no lost time from the public IEC. Why was this delay - is it reasonable to ask - even these ten to fifteen days? Why did IEK open on 25 November? The delay was because the new skills had to be streamlined. You know, so far, Mr Stylian, what was happening was that specialties were made a little 'in the air', with what everyone wanted, as they often wanted, with no response to the labour market where the public IK was. So the first was to streamline this. The second is that we had to take care of the instructor's log. There was the big problem. It is a record of trainers who had not been reconstructed for too long. You know, trainers should not be the same all the time, but young people who are unemployed must also enter. That took a while. So there will be neither waste hours nor nothing. The third issue you raise concerning the non-payment of trainers is an important issue too. I just want to remind you and remind you of the situation in the country at all times. Of course, INEDIA has already found the appropriations, but I would like to remind you that from your own government, from 35 million, which was the budget for this action, it fell to 5 million and something. This created a huge problem within 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, Minister, we cannot permanently transfer responsibility to the previous government. The previous government was judged by the Greek people and you were the ones who promised other things. However, you are judged and judged on a daily basis for your administrative management and for your ability to cope with the day-to-day function and the functioning of critical areas in the Ministry of Education, such as the education of the public IEK. You also know that, at administrative level, public IKUs are subordinated. It is common that a one-digit number of staff, one to three, must meet the needs of a large number of teachers and trainees. You know, for example, that the IEKs in Piraeus have over a thousand trainees, in Peristeri, in Athens, in Thessaloniki, everywhere. Will there be any provision in the context of the mobility of civil servants to strengthen and support administrative staff in public IEC? You also referred to the clearing of the register. Let me tell you, then, that according to your ministerial decision on 13-10-2015, there is provision for the full or partial availability of secondary education teachers in public IEC. This ministerial decision creates two-speed teachers, who are judged by different measures and weights. Teachers, who are in secondary education, recruited in formal education to teach minors, are given priority in non-formal education, even those who have been certified as adult trainers. So I ask you: Is the case, Minister, the case. 4186/2013 for all trainers, according to which the instructor must be registered in the sub-register of initial vocational training instructors, which is maintained in the EEA and of course certified? Again on this ministerial decision. It therefore refers to this differentiation in the mobilisation of qualifications of candidate teachers. I would like to give you some examples of people listening to them, and parents listening to them, and how their children will be trained in public IEK. In particular, unemployment is doubled and qualifications such as education, training and teaching experience are drastically reduced. For example, even one day of unemployment is equivalent to molecules with a four-year teaching experience in tertiary education. A great question is being asked about the quality of education. I don't doubt the unemployed graduates, postgraduate for their skills, but the experience you can't eradicate it to such an extent. Another characteristic example is that six months from one day of unemployment is equivalent to the molecules of a doctorate. Do you intend to make corrective moves in terms of mobilising the qualifications of the candidate teachers? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the rationalisation of qualifications is concerned, this, Minister, is not done vaguely. You have to tell us: On the basis of what study will there be a streamlining of skills? When was it announced? Who's written it? Have they taken into account the labour market? Please, as you give us specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fourteen students and students and two teachers attendants from the 5th Municipal School of Ilio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mrs Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to ask you, when I have had timely questions after the second reading, to be on the questions. Because when you ask me five questions, and you refer to laws or regulations that I do not have in front of me, you realize that a mind cannot remember everything. What you asked me in your dentistry has nothing to do with the timely question, because I do not like to politicize.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u74	You're making a big mistake. No, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u75	I have your question here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u76	All right, Mr. Style, you've had plenty of time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u77	Yeah, for the reason that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u78	It is the law on public and private IEKs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u79	For the layout...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u80	I don't want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u81	But let me talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u82	Listen to the answer, Mr. Style.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u83	Because I don't remember them, too. Just like you said, I really don't remember them. But to what I remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u84	We won't fight now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u85	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u86	I want to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u87	Yeah, well, we'll be happy to solve it. We're not trying to blame anyone else or any previous people or anything, but I'm telling you a completely real thing. When the budget adopted here last year in this House since 35 million budgets 5 million, do not say that we blame. We have to find that money somewhere, as you can see. We have done our utmost to secure the credit so that people can be paid, but that is a real thing that cannot be ignored and it is not for confrontation between us. Unfortunately, the figures are unrelenting sometimes and in this case they are indeed unrelenting. The second one you have raised is related to the register of trainers. There we have a big problem, Mr Stylion, and I don't take any responsibility either for the former or for us, but it's for us to solve it, it's for us to solve it. What do we got? We have a very slow qualification of trainers, which means having the same and the same trainers, who have a second job and that the record of trainers cannot be renewed at all by people who are unemployed. I agree with you, and we have said so. But we tried a little to renew the list of unemployed people. In other words, it is not always possible to pay this training in public IEK only by people who already have their jobs, are paid and paid by public IEK. It's good to be able to have a new blood...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u88	Premise doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u89	Just because there was this rush, that the IEKs had to be opened, but it had to be renewed, and we said now that we have the time, by summer, to finally renew the register in a rational manner. For the secondments, we have already made a hundred and fifty-seven distractions from secondary and primary, and seconded will meet the administrative needs of the IEK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u90	The seventh question under number 202/24-11-2015, first question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kossilis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the threatened sanction for the loss of power in the event of the consumer's inability to repay, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted. The eighth Question No 197/23-11-2015, an eighth question for the first cycle of the Athens MP, George Carras, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the risk of unfavourable economic effects to the debtors of the main housing loan, in case of partial coverage by the Greek State of the amount of the monthly payment, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be adjourning the sitting for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u91	Repeated adjournment. The sixth question will be discussed under number 195/23-11-2015, a topical question by MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the Ministry's attitude to address international assessors at the Schools of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on Tuesday 3 November we were sad to hear that external international evaluators, people of prestige, Greek professors from universities abroad, Europe and the United States, were accepted by groups of students with pre-collapsing, insulting and dropping fruits and vegetables. These people, as I said, are Greeks who were responsible for assessing the Kapodistrian University of Athens and classifying it among other international university institutions. I would remind you that, based on such evaluations in 2014, six Greek universities were classified among the eight hundred best worldwide, which made us all proud. I wish we'd better get going. On Wednesday, 4 November, the evaluators returned and completed their incognito evaluation. I am not sure whether the answers they received in their questions considered them convincing and correct, but certainly the damage has been done in the evaluation, in relation to what happened Tuesday on the 3rd of the month. Minister, support for public education, particularly the highest, is the government's expressed will. You are talking about this all the time today, but this must be proved in practice and not just in words. It is good to say, as the Minister said in his interview with us both about the genocide of the Pontians on 2 November, that universities have other means of financing through research, and therefore the emphasis of the government will be on funding primary and secondary education, but we must know, Minister, that research comes when universities are worthwhile, when they are able, not only to get money from the NRP, but also to be properly evaluated - and so that they make proper research cooperation - and also by private bodies, so that they can be financed and, therefore, they can really connect research to production. This cannot be done by dropping fruit. That is why, Minister, I ask you: what are the consequences for universities, their funding from Community and other resources and the general image of the country abroad from the outrageous and provocative attitude towards international assessors? How are these in line with the Government's position that universities can be financed through the research project? What are the actions to which the leadership of the Ministry of Education has advanced or intends to go so as to give responsibility for these regrettable incidents and to restore the image of the Greek University and correct the damage that has been done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u93	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Mr. Theocharis, the Greek AEI, universities and TEI, have managed, despite the economic crisis, to be at a high level, and the specific University, the EKT, the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, to be among 5% of the best universities, according to a list. There are a lot of rating lists. When such an incident occurs, which we too condemn, in no case has any effect on the assessment of the university, on the functioning of the university or anything like that. The PPP, the independent authority, sent in writing - and I will submit it to the Proceedings - and to the University and to us that the evaluation has been carried out properly and as it should be. The Rectorial Council of the EMCDDA took a decision immediately the next day. Convict the facts. On the other hand, however, he said that the University's assessment was carried out normally. Also, the county of the Law School of Athens made a decision and said they were treated with coolness. And here's our difference. You will allow me to say this. You keep saying SYRIZA is a populist party, but as I saw in your question and I heard from you, fly in between "the genocide of the Pontius". You fly more in your written question. These are populism, Mr Theochra. What do you want us to do? Universities - I say it because I am a university and I myself - as TEIs are a living space. And it's a living space for young people. Forty years in this country we have also had groups within the universities which yes, and fruit has been thrown away. We condemn them, and I as a university, but I will not judge the operation of universities. It says the Quaestor of the School of Law - and I think it is the best answer to all of this - that "with coolness we have faced the event, we have found alternative ways, it is normally completed or evaluated and it is over there". To condemn it is another and it is quite a different thing to make it a major issue. So it's like you're telling me that the Faculty of Political Sciences in Paris, which at least I studied there know its quality, was downgraded because Olad went there and the students celebrated him and created incidents. Now I don't know what you're going to say, but at least that's my opinion. However, we as Ministry of Education cannot intervene - they have the self-interest of the HEIs, they cannot intervene - nor should we blame or demand responsibility from anyone, especially when we know how well academic staff are doing their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u96	First of all, it is a good thing, Minister, that you condemn this fact. The deafening silence of the Ministry all these days was typical. Indeed, after the outcry, the Republic condemned the fact and rightly did, but we did not see any statement of condemnation by the relevant Minister, even though he had the opportunity to do so. I would remind him that he had the opportunity to speak to the House - we had already mentioned, like other colleagues, on this issue - and, if he wanted to, condemn it. Of course, it's not just convicts. It's important that the university is upgraded. Since I asked the question and we are discussing it today, for example in Kapodistrian, we have had the resignations of important people from the Management Board of the EMCDDA, Mr Bertsima, for example, who in his letter denounces that councils have become decorative anymore. Mrs Vassos Kididis appreciates in her own letter that it is difficult to retain the dignity, excellence, transparency and the interest of the university. So temper is good. But it would be better for these events to do something about the state, in cooperation with the universities. It would be a good thing if there were cooperation. Obviously, there is the self-defence and we will not destroy the constitutional self-defence of universities. But these facts should not be repeated. And for them not to be repeated, some who govern, have to do certain specific actions. To say that it was done and we found ways with flexibility and fantasy to be able to complete and that, despite the attempt not to complete the evaluation, we finally managed to do so, it says nothing. And I think it's unfortunate to see your example for Mr. Holland, because university evaluation is a normal process. If Mr. Holland was born on a visit to the university, would that be the same thing as having all the teachers, for example, in the university and not letting them do their homework? Oh, no. The evaluation process is an organic process of the university, which is impossible to find other, different ways of completing. It should be completed as a natural way and order of things from universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u97	But Mr. Holland here was applauded. Mrs. Ignastopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u98	It would be a good thing if it ended. But it's over with, the PDU says so. It's not just the University.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u99	No one's questioning it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u100	The EPC Rector Council immediately issued a communication, namely November 4th, and I say it because I have it in my hands. Mr Theochari, but I would like to say one thing. Because you also mentioned the boards and because it becomes a huge issue, I will answer you as a university. I don't care what Mrs. Kidney says. It's her personal point of view. You want me to tell you my own personal opinion as a university student, too? Where and how far am I going to take into account a person's personal view, and I shall make it a flag, that "they are not worthy of universities", that 'it is not worthwhile'? It's no coincidence that our students at all the universities in the world going are one of the best students. They're taking the infrastructure from somewhere. From somewhere they've created the slots to be the best students. I say this because I have worked for twenty years at this university and I know it very well. So don’t bring me as an example of a man or two as renowned personalities. I'll tell you something. And as a university and I am a well-qualified international personality, and I have another perception. Who are you gonna hear? So we are listening with ideological and political criteria to those who want to hear - correctly - and to make the debate, to confront this House with ideological and political criteria. But let go of academics. Our universities are constantly judged. You say here if we're gonna work well, what Mrs. Kidney said, one of them, the other. You did not, however, tell me about the evaluations I have had in previous years. Do you know what they're writing, Mr. Theochari, about most of our universities? And I say 'for the biggest' because that's what I know. They say, then, that their quality is too high and that if one considers the limited finances they have, other universities in many advanced countries would simply not work. Ours have been successful and have a high quality and a high level of teaching and research work, and they even emphasise research work at a time of this kind. I will not sit down and talk about the individual incidents which I would not like there to be, but I do not want there to be much other things in this society, but there are, and much more violent against us. And we don't condemn them. I'm telling you, I condemn them. And against me these have turned. But there, you know, Mr. Theocharis, it's not a matter of the Ministry of Education, it's a matter of the community itself, of the other students, if they can function democratically, if they can isolate such incidents. If this is not done in that space, no state can solve such matters. It'll create other problems much bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. It is good to thank the ministers who come to answer, as I have another announcement to make, that due to the obstruction of the relevant ministers, the first will not be discussed under number 206/24-11-2015 topical question of the second parliamentary cycle of Piraeus, the Radical Left, Mr. Irene Kasimatis, to the Minister of Shipping and the Island Policy, on the exception of the Orthodox Perama - Salamis from the concession of the Greek State to the PPA, as well as the fifth question under number 208/24-11-2015, on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotsotou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on dealing with the problems of workers in the shops of "Karfurrfour Marinopoulos" and deleted. Finally, it will not be debated because of lack of responsibility or under number 396/20-10-2015 question by MP Pieria of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Elisabeth Scoofa to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems in managing the technology equipment of the school units and deleted. We are now moving on to the last for today, the first under number 205/24-11-2015 top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgiou Diakras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the authorisation of the fishing plant in Porto Germenos. Mr. Dimitras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question concerns a farm in Porto Germeno. And on that occasion, I would like to tell you that the problem is not just here, it is at too many farms. And I know in particular: in Galicia, where Mr Kostoyannis, Mr Kostoyannis, has asked the Skorgonieria, but also when I was a regional consultant in the Attica region, there were too many environmental impact studies, which were generally negative, because applications were made for inappropriate areas. And of course, the issue is also the lack of proper spatial planning for the issue of fish farming throughout Greece. I now come to the case of this farm in Porto - Germeno. The 12-6-2015 authorisation was granted for the establishment and operation of a fish farm unit by the Decentralised Attica Command to the company "ICHTHYATTIKI" Individual Representatives Private Capital Company for the construction of an annual fishing capacity of two hundred and thirty tonnes of annual fish farm on a sea area of twenty acres in the Gulf of Porto - Germenos (Municipality of Mandra - Idialia). In 2012, this company had also tried to issue an operating licence, but it was rejected by the Region - negative recommendation of the Regional Council in 2014 - and by the Municipality of Mandra - Idyllia a rejection decision - a resolution of the Municipality of Mandra on 22-2-2012. In spite of the objections and negative suggestions of the two elected collective democratic bodies and the controversial environmental and administrative view of the legality of the business plan, the former Secretary-General, Emmanuel Angelakas, proceeded with the pre-authorisation of an authorisation on 29-12-2014. The bay of Porto - Germenos is a place of special natural beauty, with important archaeological and tourist resources (archaeological fortress of the Aegeanes) surrounded by the mountainous masses of Western Attica and others. The operation of the aquaculture plant in such a closed bay will bring serious environmental degradation to one of the few remaining oesses of Attica. My questions are: What initiatives will you take to control both the procedure and the substance of this authorisation in terms of a negative impact on the natural environment, as foreseen by the Greek Constitution? Secondly, what are you going to do about the revision of the anti-constitutional KYA 11/2011 on the spatial regulation of the maritime uses of the Saronic and Corinthian Gulf? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u103	Mr Tsironis, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, you are raising a hot issue that we always find in front of us as a state and as a society, the issue of overcoming activities in all legal and activities that we want, other activities that are equally legitimate and equally desirable. The farms are such a case, and I had, at times, faced as a member of a regional group such negative suggestions, with the corresponding protests by the owners that this is the way they enter the brake on growth. As far as the substance and type of question are concerned, I would say that, first of all, the Ministry is not competent, because you know very well - and we have repeatedly defended the administrative decentralisation of Greece - that these authorisations fall within the second subcategory of the eighth group and these authorisations come out of decentralised administration. So, as a Ministry, we could not give a positive statement or a negative opinion on such an authorisation, to the extent that it is not our responsibility, and there is already the legal authorisation of this unit by the decentralised administration. On the other hand, I think that there are already repeated decisions by the Council of State, but there is still an appeal at the moment for the people of the region, which, as you know, will also have a definitive answer there. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President. However, I fully agree with you that the state must take serious action in the field of spatial planning, to revise the n. 4269 - it is a negotiation with the institutions - so that we can finally stop having such phenomena. And that's the point of the case. In other words, as much as you, I am concerned, despite the fact that we do not have a review of the n. 4269 are currently in a serious lack of openness and people are right to worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u106	Minister, I know that it is the responsibility of the decentralised administration, but the fact that I have to review the CSCE 11/2011 is absolutely for me is absolutely certain. The situation in this area is chaotic, uncontrolled and is an opportunity, now that we have a Minister for the Environment from Ecology, to put a class on these issues in relation to the protection of the environment, the protected areas, such as this area and, of course, without overturning this logic of order, which must be put into production, as it is for the site a useful productive activity for fish farming. However, these must be done in areas where the environment is to be protected. We can't go on like this. It is a given situation throughout Greece and at this point. This point is a closed vagina, a very sensitive point. Next to us, we've got the wetland of Psathas. There are too many Athenians, residents of the region. When Western winds blow, all these remains come where the people of the region bathe and tourism is affected. Let's finally protect the environment, see what we're going to do. We can't leave it like this. We know that this institution of decentralised administration must be abolished. Almost all regions say it. There must be a noble region, and this intermediate institution, in fact, must change. It cannot, in other words, take decisions against the decisions of the collective bodies, which are both the municipal council of the region and the regional council. They didn't dare other secretaries to make such decisions. I know that very well. Those environmental impact studies were rejected in the Attica Region did not go to take authorisations. We need to think about other things here every time. How, in other words, a Secretary General for Decentralised Administration can take or dares to make a decision against collective bodies and such sensitive points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Chironis has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. As I said before, the fact that today, with the existing situation and the existing institutional framework, this unit operates legally does not mean that I do not share your serious concerns. Since you have raised the issue of administrative reform, it is not just the issue of authorisations, where we operate as a perfume head, that is, the state, that is to say, other matters. You know that forest services are in the same condition, towns are in the same condition, they are environmental licensing, they are environmental controls, they are dozens of issues. We do have a so-called decentralisation which, in fact, works in a management structure and in a total weakness. Fish farms are indeed a pillar of the Greek economy. Either we have to choose that fishing and catch are a minimum privilege, if we want to make sustainable fishing, those who have the opportunity to pay, or we will have a definitive destruction of our fishing, with intensive fishing of our seas, or we must strengthen our fish farms so that the fish can reach everywhere without endangering the ecosystems. These companies will necessarily go into closed vaginas. They can't go to the open sea, we all understand that. However, thank God, Greece has hundreds of closed bays that are suitable for farming and at the same time do not threaten other economic activities such as tourism and much more do not threaten the environment, in that there are other uses of visitability, as you rightly said. Unfortunately, the current institutional framework, I said before, does not help in such a rational and sustainable process. You are right, in the sense that some people were pushing to do some of the activities of individual, fragments, whether we are talking about trading in fuel, talking about fish crops or about industrial plants, which literally destroyed other vital resources. An painful example is the Gulf of Elefsina, which is a monument of history - there was the battle of Salamis - and which today has an image that in no country would dare in the valley of their culture, which is Elefsina, with the Eleusian Mysteries, to go and put all these units. Unfortunately, it has been done and unfortunately the current government has had the task of revising all this institutional and legal framework that you have already mentioned. And you know that in this direction we will move, but please, a little patience. We share as government the same concerns as you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too. We are entering the last for today's topical question. It is the third under number 199/23-11-2015 timely question of the second question of the Attica MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Casidiari to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the lifting of negative consequences of Article 78 of the n. 4146/2013 and the course of checks on corruption cases. Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u110	On 5 November this year the Minister for the fight against corruption, Mr Papagelopoulos, in Parliament's plenary, raised a major issue, a national issue, because it concerns a scandal of political corruption involving too many officials from the old memorandum establishment. He specifically referred to an issue that the Golden Dawn has raised and made a great deal of fuss in this Chamber, the issue of a scandalous provision, a criminal provision under Article 78 of the n. 4146/2013, with which, in substance, the political factors that, in complexity with bankers, led to many millions of millions of sea-savings, hundreds of millions of euros to parties are amortised. For the people to understand what we're saying, they robbed a bank - because it's a robbery, it may not be an armed robbery, it may not have been a violence, but a confiscation of the public is - and then they made a law that defensive the robbers. It is very positive that the Minister raised this issue. We are asking, however, and we are controlling the government, and we are asking for specific information on what initiatives are to be taken immediately so that there is no impunity. A criminal political system cannot hide behind a law which, on one night, created and covered the criminal responsibilities of very specific persons for very specific crimes. For the record to say that on 4 April 2013, with an amendment late, in a cruiser, I would say, three Members of the New Democracy came here - in other words, Christoyannis, Tsumanis and Stamenitis - a little while before the debate and vote of an entirely irrelevant bill were concluded and they tabled this amendment that was voted on in a minute. No one understood what happened then. The next day the bankers celebrated and we all understood what happened. This amendment granted amnesty not only to political persons for loans taken by the parties, but also to the retrospective force that exists in this amendment, except for the loans of the parties are also covered by maritime loans granted by banks to institutions such as the Music House and various non-governmental organisations. It was then that the Financial Prosecutors of Peponnes and Muzakiti had undertaken the investigation and, according to our information, there was a specific prosecuting proposal for specific political persons covered. So we have a bunch of felonies, for which the political system passed laws to cover them. We ask the Minister responsible what he intends to do directly, what legislative initiatives he intends to take, so as to put an end to the cover-up of these crimes. Minister, in the second part of my topical question, I shall refer more generally to corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u111	The Deputy Minister has the floor, Mr Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u112	Article 78 of the EC Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 78 EC) does not apply. 4146/2013 is unconstitutional, not only in my view but also in the opinion of many of the approved legal systems and - I do not hesitate to say - many old colleagues. It is unconstitutional, because Article 47(4) of the Constitution explicitly states that amnesty for common crime is not provided by law. With regard to the abolition of the provision of this article which was voted on at night by an amendment, as you said, I have consulted Nikos Paraskevilos in order to abolish this provision immediately. However, we must all know that the abolition of this provision in itself does not allow the punishment of those responsible, because retroactive power cannot exist. Unfortunately, I say, but that's the way it is. The Ministry of Justice is carefully studying the way in which this provision is declared unconstitutional, which can only be done by the competent courts. I would like to believe or rather say that I am sure that the competent prosecutors will take the necessary initiatives to ensure that the competent courts see the unconstitutionality of this provision. But here, I want to say something that may be self-evident, but sometimes the self-evident ones must be said. It goes without saying, therefore, that credit institutions will, if they have not already sought to collect claims from such loans or from other public-private institutions which may be covered by this provision. I would like to say that there is a possibility, if they do not, that they risk being prosecuted for infidelity, that is, for the non-recovery of their claims, and indeed felony. You're asking me about the inspirations of this device. You know them, you mentioned them. I would like to say that they are the ones who tabled and those who voted for the amendment to this provision when the honest and unmistakable prosecutor Gregory Pepponis began to investigate these loans. They are the ones who then arranged for Gregory and his colleague, Spyros Mousakitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u113	Before I give the floor to Mr. Cassidyri, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the above Western theory they are attending the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELETEREROS VENIZELOS" Hall forty-five students and students and four teachers from the General Lyceum of Thuria Messinia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u114	It is very important - and I think this is the first time - that, within the Greek Parliament, it admits and even states that it will take measures and initiatives - it is very important, I stress, that there is this assumption - that specific political persons have committed and intervened in justice. As you said, the positive work of the Financial Prosecutors Pepton and Mousakitis has been illegally stopped and we see your initiative too positive, because the Golden Dawn is not a party that makes a sterile opposition. This is where you see us permanently, of course, when we come to do parliamentary control, to be insulted by the ministers, to respond to them and to do nothing positive in the process. In this case we see that there is a political will on the part of the Minister to proceed with this case. That is why we will raise this issue again very soon, because it is a national issue. It is a national issue, because the people today, through the memoranda, pays for the recapitalisation of banks, for the hundreds of millions illegally wasted. They've been collected by parties. Of course, here, Mr Minister, you said that the inspirations of this criminal amendment are known. I mentioned three names in fact, but they, as the people say, are 'the front'. These three, that is, MPs, Christoyannis, Tsumanis and Stamenitis, I believe that people did not know at that time what they signed. They were given them from above, that is, from the leaderships of their parties and signed this criminal amendment. It is not just those who voted for it, it is also the governments that have tolerated it. And the present government, of course, hopefully will soon show work. That's what we're waiting for. We do not just expect the abolition of this unconstitutional amendment and a provision. We are waiting immediately for the guilty to be punished for felony infidelity against the public. I would like to raise the matter to which Mr Nicoludis, your predecessor, as well as the prosecutor, referred last June. He was reported on two hundred forty-seven commandments for corruption cases. More specifically, it has been mentioned in special bills, which were to be filed and which concerned tobacco smuggling, alcohol smuggling. Of course, there are so many cases of corruption, which would indeed need a multi-brush plan, to use an expression of today's day. So what initiatives are they to take in this direction? And above all, the most important thing - to say things by their name - is not to become new laws, but to abolish the criminal laws that are currently in force and which perpetuate political corruption in Greece. I ask, therefore, in particular: does the Minister intend to take the initiative and force the government - because, in the view of the Prime Minister, we do not see any intentions at all - to abolish the criminal, abstract legislation, the infamous Venizelos Law, the law on the liability of ministers? So there is the root of the evil, and only by abolishing parliamentary immunity and, of course, the law on the responsibility of ministers, there can finally be transparency in Greece and there can be political clearance. Unfortunately, this situation of corruption is perpetuating, which is stifling public life. We are well aware that even now, Mr Flavouraris, is currently inspected for inaccurate 'wherever you were.' In fact, we read in the press that this case will come with the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, which I - which I am not a legal person - is unacceptable, because the Law on Responsibility of Ministers only covers the one who carries out ministerial duties when carrying out the offence in question. With this law we have seen very specific cases - to remember a little bit of the equipment - that all traders are quoted for a felony, referred to even by the military who have received misery and many of them have been confiscated, but justice has not touched any minister, no political person. The root of evil is that and there, right at its root, the evil must be struck, that is to say, the abstract law on the responsibility of the Ministers must be abolished. Is there such an initiative on your side? What initiatives are you going to take in general to combat political corruption in our country, for black political money? As you know, it is another Minister who refers to listing. In our opinion, however, the Minister for Finance is not responsible. Mr Alexiadis is not competent to talk about lists and offshore companies. He is responsible for the fight against corruption, which happens to be a prosecutor, and we consider that he has both knowledge and technical training and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u115	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u116	...we also hope for political will to hit this major issue that is literally cancer in the public life of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u117	Mr Papagelopoulos has the floor for the final answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u118	First of all, I must clarify that I do not have to force the Prime Minister, because he is pressing me to fight corruption, and that is why he put me in this position. I believe I can respond to his trust. For the two hundred and forty-seven cases of corruption mentioned by Mr Nicoludis, I am pleased - I can say, I would like to be even more happy - to announce that control has already been completed. Twenty-one cases have been referred to the prosecutor, eighty-five cases are checked and their completion is imminent, twelve cases completed and will be transmitted to the prosecutor and the other cases still pending with the relevant audit bodies. For the actions and legislative initiatives you have asked, I would like to tell you that they are ready - or almost ready - and draft draft laws on 'outside' will be tabled, bills on the reform and strengthening of the financial prosecutor and the prosecutor's corruption, bills on the financing of the political parties you asked before, bills on unification of all the control mechanisms under the Directorate-General for the Fight against Corruption, bills on the protection of witnesses of the public interest, and much more I do not want to mention, not to waste the time I have. There is also an agreement - a little timely - with the federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia for exchanging know-how from which we have also received the list you will read in the last few days. And here I want to make a point: if for the Lagard list it took three years to start the investigations - and I don't know where they have arrived now - that list has already been delivered or delivered in the next few hours to the financial prosecutor. I would like to know that before I came here I met with Mr Vassiliade and Mr Alexiadis and we arranged for the mode of action. This list will not have the luck of the previous lists. We'll get results soon. We have drawn up a joint action plan. I would also like to tell you that the current government is willing - and I am in charge of making this clear - to put an end to the immunity that exists. I would also like to say something here: because something sounds like a coup d'état, you must know that the current government and no legislative initiatives such as those we have discussed before will be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday, 30 November 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 203/24-11-2015 topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Helen Stamatakis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the housing of the Piraeus Court. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 223/25-11-2015 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, about the rationalisation and functioning of the country's unpaid mortgages. 3. The 200/23-11-2015 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, on the problem of the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki. 4. The 182/20-11-2015 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the lifting of the distance of twenty miles for the free transfer of students of daily and summer PAELs. 5. The 209/24-11-2015 topical question by Congressman I Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Liana Kanelles to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of ergonomic cleaners at the Children's Hospital of "Sala Sunday". 6. The 194/23-11-2015 topical question by MP B' Athens of Potamio Mr. Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance regarding the increase of traffic charges and the financial burden of the taxpayers of the country. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 204/24-11-2015, a topical question by the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Finance concerning the hostage of hundreds of thousands of insured persons in the insurance companies "SPRINATION OF AEGA" and "COMMERCIAL VALUE S.A.". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 224/25-11-2015 by MP Argolidas of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister of Health on the problems of the health structures of the Argolida Prefecture. 3. The 186/20-11-2015 topical question by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the timetable for the implementation of the project of the Patras - Tower motorway in the Prefecture of Elias. 4. The Question No 210/24-11-2015 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the need to find a building for the housing of the Municipal School of Kontokalio Corfu. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-27-S1-commons.u120	With the agreement of the House at 11.55 p.m., the sitting on Monday, November 30, 2015, at 16.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions. At 18.00, legislative work will be followed, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
