ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 19 March 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 21/10-3-2015 by MP A' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to deal with school bullying phenomena. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 16/10-3-2015 of the Greek Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Mr. Spyridonos-Adoni Georgiadis to the Minister of Health and Social Security, concerning the announcements of medical treatment and hospitalization to uninsured persons who are already applicable with the establishment of the EDY. 3. The question asked by MP Argolidis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgiou Galeos to the Ministers for Labour and Social Solidarity and Economics about the letters from the Public Debt Management Agency (PESH) to the insurance funds for the investment of liquids available in state repos. 4. The 8/9-3-2015 topical question by the Member of Parliament at Attiki of the River Mr. Georgios Mavrotas to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the abolition of introductory examinations at the Experimental Schools and the subsequent deterioration of the institution. 5. The Question No 37/10-3-2015 by Z' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health and Social Security regarding the direct staffing of the paediatric clinics of Trikala and Karditsa Hospitals. 6. The Question No 29/10-3-2015 by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Finance concerning the existence or non-request of a request from the Greek authorities for a two-month technical extension of the memorandum and its content. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 6/10-3-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health and Social Security on the problems of members of the Free Professional Insurance Agency. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 22/10-3-2015 by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity, concerning the non-payment for years of the employee's dues in the Macedonian Metal Industry S.A. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 19/10-3-2015 topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Finance, about the amount of the country's loan obligations and the sources of their funding. 3. The 11/9-3-2015 topical question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy and the Finance, on late payments relating to agricultural subsidies. 4. The question raised by Mr Alexandros Hadjimitririou, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance, on the "Greek Sugar Industry". 5. The question raised by Mr Christos Katsotis on the reduction of the wages of up to 38% in NESTLE by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity. 6. By No 27/10-3-2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the revenues of HIDED and the impairment of the Greek Public Debt. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by number 2/6-3-2015 of the Member of Parliament, Ioannis Koutsoukos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the progress of revenues, divergences from budget objectives and the coverage of the public's financial needs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law: 'Requirements for immediate measures to address the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and the Governmental Institutions and other provisions'. I would ask my colleague, Mr Santorini Nektario, to come to Stepma. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this first bill has as its sole recipient the Greek society and these layers that live in the range of extreme poverty. It is the first bill that, after a long time, concerns those parts of the population living in exterior conditions, which experienced a terrifying deterioration in their level of life, where unemployment and escalating direct and indirect taxes set them down and finally fell down. The hundred and fifty thousand people, who at the moment and at the very least can feel that they are taking a breath of life and a breath of dignity, are the victims of the policy of monuments and poverty. These are the people who have been'stripped' by the so-called surpluses, by the so-called development policies and, in essence, are the people who have experienced the dissolution of the social state, of welfare and of health. All of these are the results of neoliberal policy, post-night sinning amendments and unregulated anti-linguistic reform of the government of Memorandums. The Greek people chose a new government to save what can be saved in this country after the passage of your own "memorandum liva". You know that at these moments, when the House of a country is called upon to pass a bill with such content, which reflects the raw and undeniable truth about the stagnation that society has reached, it is moments of sadness for all that has brought us here. And indeed, the Greek people today would expect to hear an apology for your hard neoliberal policy. On the contrary, we hear you say that the regulations that the government brings are not enough to involve the catastrophe that you have caused. We hear you talking about the minimum guaranteed income, a programme that you put into pilot implementation and that for 2015 you had not written a single euro in the budget. Of course, the government would not be able to take care of all the new-fashioned people created by your own policy. But we are here to change the policies you have implemented and bring social justice and the right of citizens to life and work again. We are here to overthrow neoliberal policies and we will do so - step by step. And today is the first step in this direction. We call on you to vote in favour of the government's bill on halting the humanitarian crisis and to give you the message that, as far as this new government and this new parliament are concerned, no one will be alone in the crisis from now on, but also for another reason: we all stand together towards those who are currently blackmailing the country and talking about unilateral actions. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we have tabled has been the subject of consultations with bodies and has been discussed in detail in the committees. The government has shown that it can be chosen with everyone and accept errors and omissions. In the process of discussion in the committees, there have been several legislative and substantive improvements which have made this bill a real board of salvation for our fellow citizens, who are in extreme poverty. With regard to the regulation to deal with corruption, it is deeply convinced that the reason why corruption has been in our country is that the auditing bodies were fragmented and incoherent and that was a political choice, because corruption and complexity were part of the political plan of the previous governments. Today the completion of the reform initiated by the recommendation of the Minister of State for the fight against corruption and continuing with the coordination of the relevant agencies shows the government's intention to really be tackled with corruption and complexity. Ladies and gentlemen, in the run-up to the elections and today, you told us: 'Where will you get the money?' We replied that we would stop wasting waste and stop coughing "days". Because the one thousand hundred and seventy - three government advisers today make five hundred fifty - four with a saving of EUR 500,000. Because with the release of seven hundred and ninety two police officers, we save 18 million euros. Because we're going to stop the party of your best friends who have enriched against the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, today the forces of the memorandum inside and outside our country are threatening that this bill is a unilateral action. We are answering them: it is time for unilateral actions to be for the benefit of society rather than the few and the chosen ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Santorinier. Mrs Gara Anastasia, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a special honour for me to be in the Greek Parliament's Step for the first time representing the citizens of Evros who, by their vote, honoured their struggles, struggles and expectations. I come from a region that is accustomed to becoming the first topic in the news reports when it is affected by natural disasters, such as the widespread floods in recent days or months, we would say, or when migratory flows are increased, or when a minister visits its camps. Evros is an area characterised by particularly high rates of unemployment and poverty. The policies pursued have led to the deterioration of the production fabric, the closure of the sugar plant, the elimination of livestock, the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the lack of infrastructure, the deterioration of health and education infrastructures, together with the disasters in the primary sector, create an explosive situation for the region, which makes the daily lives of the citizens unbelievable. This image is also depicted in the hundreds of young people who migrate from Evros, looking elsewhere for a job escape. On the other hand, however, our region has enormous potential for development. The natural and mineral wealth, the fertile land, the rivers, the human potential, the rich cultural heritage, and its geographical location, compose the mosaic of the potential of Evros to become a reference point for development and crossroads of the people's commercial and cultural meetings. On one condition, of course: we must all work hard in the context of the productive reconstruction of the county, of course using its advantages. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the bill we have in our hands today the government takes a first step in tackling the humanitarian crisis. It may seem small, because of the narrow budgetary margins, however, this attempt starts from scratch since there are no corresponding organised structures in the state mechanism that will support our work. That is why we are creating them from the outset. The deep recession in the economy caused by the austerity policies of recent years resulted in dramatic social consequences. A large part of the population is unable to meet even their basic needs, while this situation is getting worse on the basis of the ongoing crisis. The current financial aid to poor households that ensures electricity, food and housing gives thousands of our fellow humans a necessary breath of life. It is, of course, understandable that this bill cannot deal with the problem as a whole. However, a series of bills, which are to be submitted directly, such as the regulation of the hundreds of doses and arrangements on labour issues, will help to relieve the people's strata and raise the Greek society and the economy. Of course, some are trying to justify their opposition role and reason, stating that the government shares crumbs. They are themselves, who either do not understand or do not want to see reality, a reality which they themselves have created very targetedly. They are those on the one hand who talk about crumbs and on the other hand continue to be amazed at the news that there are our fellow human victims of the Memorandum Policy who are trying to survive without power and without food. They are the same ones who have for years passed laws, leading an entire society to impoverishment and destruction, and today we are being squeezed by the finger. Colleagues and colleagues, Breech once said that those who are high consider it humble to talk about food. The reason is they've already eaten. So the criticism of yesterday's SYRIZA programme and today towards the government's legislative initiative is primarily a criticism of the costs of filled people. The permanent pattern is either that we can find the money or that the money is little. I'm sorry, but they're making a high policy on poverty. Nowhere, of course, did we hear criticism or suggestions in order to meet the needs of our fellow citizens to live with dignity. For us, there are fundamental social rights, food, housing, water and electricity. They're unnegotiable. The state is obliged to ensure that structures of social solidarity are created, which will strengthen its social person and form the basis for the creation of a modern, efficient, fair and simple state of responsibility for the recognition and coverage of real needs. It is true that this bill restores dangerous values and criteria for profit and competition, such as dignity, solidarity, respect and therefore being attacked. It's dangerous for neoliberal logic. Furthermore, I firmly believe that this bill has an extra political and symbolic value. This is a fundamental guarantee of the term humanitarian crisis, which is a serious blow to supporters of austerity and memoranda, both in our country and abroad. Indirectly, but clearly, acceptance of the term is a presumption of failure of the austerity policy. At the same time, the term "humanist crisis" has legitimised widely audiences, which is a deadly enemy for neoliberal logic, the orderly intervention of the state to tackle common problems and to meet social needs, because these problems are collectively solved rather than at the level of individualism or charity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I should like to stress that our commitment to the complete abolition of their memorandums and implementing laws is fully valid and this commitment, despite the great post-election difficulties, despite obstacles and brutal blackmail, will be fully implemented in the next period. This bill is the beginning of another policy with a sign of human dignity. Be sure that 'as much as hyenas and dogs bark, the caravan will go ahead'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see that we have high attractions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-two students and students and four educational sessions from the 3rd Amarousio High School. The House welcomes them. Greek MPs and MPs wish for health, progress and struggle for the good of their country. Be well. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, Mr Ursouzidis Georgios, please go to Stepma. You have the floor for six minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Today is a beautiful day, an optimistic day, as after several years this representative body of the Greek people has been called upon to vote for a law that obeys the universal requirement of Greek citizens for solidarity and survival. It is a law, which concerns the little even relief of financially impoverished citizens, but also the ignorance of the irrational demands imposed by the "saviors", destroying every production activity and every possibility of developing the country. I think that is no longer called into question by anyone who is active on the private initiative. The Greek society has been divided into those people who need little help, that little gesture of solidarity to survive and escape the deadlocks created by this unprecedented crisis imposed on the country and others. To those who have not touched them, who have simply limited their income, but who have funds, they have the so-called pillow, who represent the serious and the wise. Those who dare to talk about benefits, who very much regret that this bill will divert the country's course from growth, while at the same time denounce that this bill is nothing but "flying". But from crumbs, unfortunately, the Greek people need it today! That is where the policies that have been implemented with your blessings have become him. Have you really witnessed people who have no resource at all? You'd better not meet them. The eyes of these people can't stand it. Keep living in your world, happy and wise. Do you imagine what it's like not to have electricity in a house? All that concerns you - that impression you give - is not to stop the current at the ATMs. Have you witnessed people who are shaking not to get sick, why do they think they will not meet the minimum requirements for buying drugs? Do you know what it's like for farmers to live with pensions of 350 euros? At least you should know that. But you must be aware that these pensions are now also anticipated by the unemployed of these families. Do you know what it's like to live with fear not to stop you from being checked, not to get a call, but to keep them from picking you up because you owe two and three grand on tax? There was talk of "losses that should not be lost", "plannings" created by the policy implemented in recent years and based on the accounting valuation of the inability to pay what the Greek citizens have charged them, of the dues. The only real surplus you have created in the country is poverty, impoverishment and despair. That's the reality. There has been talk of the possibility of an accident and that we will pay too much for this accident. You're obviously ignoring reality. The desperate has nothing to fear. When you know that the situation has long arrived at the limits of survival for the majority of Greek citizens, you must respect their reality and their will. That is exactly what we are doing: we are applying the mandate that we have received from the Greek people, who have felt better from each of us the consequences of this unprecedented crisis. The Greek people, after several years of sacrifices and bloody deprivations, maturely and wisely, decided to say "no", opening the eyes and ears of our partners, who finally see the reality and divide their societies. Only a few in this House pretend they don't see it, they don't understand it. This bill is the beginning of overthrowing and creating the climate of optimism and dignity to Greek citizens, a prerequisite for the development and reintroduction to the market of people who were forced to leave their activities either because they are unable to pay their contributions to the funds or because they have taken a loan and cannot afford it. So caught up in the artificial debts unnecessarily charged to traders and small and medium-sized businessmen, the market is squeezing. The bills that follow are also the mature choice of citizens. Enough with the wisdom and experiments of local and foreign saviors! And I would like to close with one question: How do our partners imagine a man being born, growing and dying, bearing in mind that he will owe generations for generations? What citizens expect to produce such a situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr Ursouzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u9	Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u10	I would like to raise a point which is procedural, but also political. It is not possible for the House to meet and for there to be no one Member from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u11	They have a parliamentary group meeting, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u12	That doesn't say anything. I would ask you, on behalf of this House, to express our discontent on the part of the Bureau. It is not possible for the House to operate in the absence of all the Members of the New Democracy, the Officerial Representation. It is unprecedented what is happening today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u13	They ruled without the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u14	I am surprised that this is something that can be understood. The House is convening for such an important bill and there is not one, neither the parliamentary representative nor any representative to listen and answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u15	Mr Philly, when the Group of the European People's Party is to meet, I believe that the Bureau cannot have an opinion and a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I raised another point. Please - and I think I am interpreting the views of this House at the moment - that the Bureau should take a step towards New Democracy, towards Civic Anti-Civilization. There may not be a single member of the New Democracy at this sitting. Not even one! Neither the Parliamentary Representative nor the Party Secretary! Nobody! Nothing! That's a hell of a House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u17	We're continuing, Mr. Friend, you've heard. Mrs Triantafle Maria from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is being tabled at a time when our people voted on the position of the Anti-Population Party that supported the Memorandum Governments, left to the same percentage those who did not dare to formulate a plan of progress from the economic crisis and annihilate a political staff who thought they could continue to cheat on it. The new Greek Government today with this bill calmly, but decisively raises the question of stirring up, opposing the humanitarian crisis in our country. And it has every reason and it has a duty to do so, since, according to official figures, over three and a half million Greeks live below the poverty and social exclusion threshold and from these two million are unable to meet their most basic needs, proper feeding, housing, heating and transportation. This is, therefore, a crisis that is one of the most painful consequences of the global economic crisis and the criminal choices that have been made in the economy in recent years, choices made by the expressors of modernised global financial capital and willingly implemented by those who have not separated politics from entrepreneurship, from those who have long been accustomed to the idea of the consumption of imported political choices rather than to the idea of producing policy from and for the needs of our people. In this context, in this climate, the new government legislates and implements part of its commitments, without putting them at the microscope of lenders against financial blackmail. This is a change, a qualitative and a symbolic change. We are told that we are abducting rights when the previous legislative production of the Memorandum governments has not been one - or one! - testified without the approval of the troika. Both within the country and abroad it has been made clearer that the resurgence of the humanitarian crisis is the first step, so that the political change that has taken place in the country can begin to be of a material, substantial character, which can help to restore our people's opinion and also inspire the people of Europe. However, it is the least and it should be a start so that the policy can gain its meaning. It is certainly not a medicinal product for the causes of the phenomenon, but a brake on the categorisation taken by our country and our democracy from the application of genocide and dead-end memorandum policies. Both chapters to combat tax evasion, which, as one of our colleagues quite rightly pointed out yesterday, are an economic issue and not only moral - mainly economic - and also the uninterrupted functioning of the public sector. So we are proposing that today we press brakes. It's the least. It is a first step, however, to confirm that the political struggle, which has started with the leading role of our people for a few years now, with the aim of recovering national dignity, has meaning and can be victorious, even when it took place in the context of a populist democracy, even when it took place within the struggling of a rotten political system fully subordinate to the pressures and needs of financial capital. There is an extensive debate that is always initiated by the European Union: Europeans' threats to Grexit, the abstraction of these threats by domestic supporters, a call to SYRIZA for a total return to'realism', 'Georgiadis' positions, that it has always voted for memorials regardless of origin. The aim is to inspire the idea of the one-way. They don't want to kick Greece out of the eurozone. They want SYRIZA to fail. They want his credibility to collapse. We want time, but they want time too. The time has come for German-governed Europe, because as long as SYRIZA keeps the changes to come - Podemos, but others - they can change the relationships. Also, to have a good mind that a debate on the future of the euro area is not only opened by SYRIZA nor by Greece. It is being opened by the Europeans themselves, because it is a political issue, not an economic issue. Reproduction of capital is a political issue and not an economic one. Finally, there are some questions we should ask: Do we need to stop moving the crisis to the weakest and vulnerable citizens of our society? Do we need to stop the transition of the crisis to Europe's regional economies? Do we need to stop moving the crisis into deadlocks of regional warfare? If we respond positively to these questions, then we must also find the medicine. We're not just making time. We're struggling to get time again. We fight so that clocks work for people and not watch people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Triantafel. Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos has the floor from PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is facing two major challenges: firstly, social protection for our weakest human beings and, secondly, the fight against economic crime. At the same time, it brings with it eight amendments concerning important issues. Many of these issues, in my opinion, should not come in this form. Unfortunately, however, they come as amendments because of the frugality of the government, as well as the attitude it held as Opposition. I am referring to both SYRIZA and ANEL. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible at the moment when the draft law on the regulation of debts and debts has been tabled, to go through with an amendment, relevant regulations, just to prevent dates. In other words, the government is running behind the time it itself, without consideration, scattered. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not have to open up the issue of late payments to the public and the insurance funds. We should have solved this since October, five months ago, but then both SYRIZA and ANEL thought about how they would take power and not how the country would get out of the deadlock. Ladies and gentlemen, if the government were to change the government's policy, we would not be here today for a bill much smaller in a range of regulations and a reference area, both in relation to the PASOK strategy on social protection and inclusion, and in relation to guaranteed social incomes, nor would we watch the government invent new conditions to replace old ones it has indicted. They wouldn't rename the memorandum in a settlement, the troika in three institutions and then in Athens and Brussels Group. The House would not be excluded from voting to extend the memorandum. We would not be locked up in this risk, because we would have the preventive credit line as a solution. Instead, we are flirting with the third memorandum that everyone condemns and that comes. We would not see the government try to balance with lies between the difficult reality and the election promises. Ladies and gentlemen, the government brings in an amendment to the national general collective agreement on labour. It is true that an institutional social dialogue needs to be launched in the framework of collective bargaining. Of course, the role of the social partners must be restored. But how does the government send this message? With an amendment tabled only yesterday, in rather than five, on such an important issue? The amendment also raises the question of the compulsory use of the funds' reserves. But is that possible? We will see to it that money is transferred from the funds - which have to pay pensions shortly - to the Bank of Greece to cover its great lies. I mentioned all of this, because I wonder if such important issues can come as amendments. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in principle on the draft law to deal with the humanitarian crisis, because it concerns our fellow people, who really need us. However, with regard to the main body of the bill, we are voting in favour of the improvements to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. They are, of course, lower than the ones in the Thessaloniki programme, which has already been forgotten. However, any improvement in society as a whole and its real needs is necessary. Let me remind you here that today, first of all, there is a social tariff in six hundred thousand poor families, with a 45% reduction in electricity, that is, two million Greeks pay a reduced electricity, which is of course never cut off. Secondly, over eight thousand very poor households in the country have free power with local commissions of the municipalities and PPC. Thirdly, there is a 70% discount on the current of all actors of social solidarity, such as ecclesiastical aggregations, social grocery stores, municipal aggregations. Fourthly, there is for twenty-five thousand families a 60% grant on the gas connection with 15,000,000 guaranteed by the ESDP. There are many other lightning arrangements for many of our fellow citizens, of course the PASOK has created. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of Articles 6 to 15 dealing with corruption and economic crime. Of course, we have waited and waited to see that any financial result is and serves to deal with extreme poverty, this will in fact have a social and social impact. Of course, we do not agree with the establishment of new stamps and the extension of public statutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much disagree with the institution of the Voluntary Adviser and the Special Minister. They are a customer culture, without institutional support, rules and criteria being met. We are therefore voting against Articles 16 to 26. We are voting in favour of Article 27 on the reintroduction of social security to the Ministry of Labour, a proposal from PASOK to the new Minister, because experience has shown that it was a distortion that this sector belonged to the Ministry of Health. We are also voting in favour of Article 28 on the merger of letters and Articles 29 and 31-32 on the transfer of pupils, health care, extension of space for school guards. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we are not here today to pass the bill on the humanitarian crisis and the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity to delay the implementation of programmes of approved funding, through the NRP, of EUR 600,000 for the creation of sixty thousand new jobs. That is why we have been talking about reforming social policy over the past few days, about national strategy, about social protection and integration, which has been worked out by PASOK, and it is useful and necessary to take advantage of it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my warmest condolences to the family of Vangelis Yakoumakis. The loss of this new must strike the alarm in all of us, so that we can do what is necessary to eliminate the phenomenon of intimidation in every form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mrs Uunidou Evgenias from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the first bill of the Government of Social Rescue, the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of government and governmental bodies and other provisions. This bill is the first time that the term 'humanitarian crisis' has been recorded in Europe as a perpetrator of the memorial policies that have been followed over the last five years. This is a bill that is the first step towards reducing the serious social impact of the monumental austerity policies. It is the first step of state care to facilitate access to basic public goods, to feeding, to electricity and to housing the extreme poor of this country, to those who risk crossing the threshold of social exclusion, depriving the basic conditions, not of decent but of simple survival. It is the first stone for the government to respond to the obligations of a favoured democratic state. Because only then does democracy make sense, when access to public goods and constitutional rights is granted to all citizens. In my prefecture, according to my information, in Kozani and Ptolemaida, they are fed by local government, voluntary solidarity groups and from the church, over a thousand three hundred people, 35% of whom are children and adolescents up to seventeen years old. Is he satisfied with this bill our vision? Is it covered by all the citizens in need of support? Of course not. There are many and varied things that need to be done and we are still at the beginning. This bill also solves the immediate problem of the transfer of the two hundred thousand pupils in the territory, a problem that is exacerbated by the abolition of the two thousand five hundred schools in the country. The provisions are important in the fight against corruption, given that, as the Vice-President of the Ice Bay pointed out, in the past, the relevant powers have been exercised by too many bodies, thus overlapping and self-determination. However, I would also like to dwell here on Amendment No 2424 concerning the extension of the term of office of subsidiary doctors until the end of the year in hospitals, health centres and social care centres. It comes - the truth - some facilitation in the operation of hospitals and a relief in the ongoing on-calls of doctors due to a lack of staff. In my area, the Kozani Regional Unit, where people's health problems are very much due to the heavy environment and activities of PPC, hospitals and health centres are facing serious shortages in medical and not just personnel, to the extent that the functioning of clinics is impossible. I also pointed this out during my previous term of office. But in particular today, where we want to make a policy that actually supports human beings, we need these structures to be staffed with the minimum necessary staff. They are precarious and are at risk of closing down the sections of the pediatric and gynecological clinic of the Mutsis Hospital of Kozani, as well as the pathological and pediatric clinic of the Bodosaceous Hospital of Ptolemaida. They are currently supported by third hospitals. I would point out that for the proper functioning of the hospitals in the Regional Unit of Kozani, in addition to this extension of existing subsidiary posts, it is necessary to declare a fertile zone, namely zone III, Western Macedonia. You know, subsidiary doctors are for a year and don't come to such areas as ours, that is, at the border. We must therefore proceed directly to the notice at least twenty-five subsidiary posts, but also to the reconstituting of primary and secondary health, including the matching of health and administrative regions, the adjustment of hospital agencies because the needs have changed, the redesign of the EAW by setting up new areas of Voj and Serbs for better geographical coverage and health planning by regional section, because we must achieve the region's self-sufficiency in the field of health services so that citizens are not forced to go outside the region. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of a new period for the Greek people. The pressures both outside and within the country are many. We must unequivocally implement the social and productive reconstruction programme in the country. We will insist on our programme of Thessaloniki, firmly and with strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Uunidou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and a teacher from the 1st Elementary School of New Psychikos. The House welcomes them and wishes them health and progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Panos Skourletis, Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor for 15 minutes. There is a corresponding shortening of your time from eighteen to fifteen minutes, because the time of the MPs was six. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be even shorter. I would also like to begin with one comment, seeing the empty benches on the part of the Opposition, the New Democracy. I think that the spirit of Samaras, of the deserving of parliamentary procedures, which existed in the previous parliamentary term, is well held up. In any case, even with this friendly composition and with each other, I would like to share some thoughts with you. First of all, I would like to refer to the amendment tabled for the extension of power by three months of the National Collective Convention. I was surprised that Mr Koutsoukos, who is well known for his trade union activity in the past, does not understand the very specific value and concept of this amendment. You know very well that at the end of this month, March, the National Collective Convention expires and in view of the institutional changes that are being made...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u25	Do we not agree on the substance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u26	Yeah. You weren't inside, Mr. Kegeroglu. I talked to you yesterday, but anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u27	He said we were basically in agreement. Refer to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't interrupt. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u29	Everything's in the Minutes and it's live and the transmission...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u30	He said we were basically in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kegeroglu, please don't interrupt. Minister, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u32	There are no partnerships with such lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u33	What kind of partnership? I don't understand. Who spoke of partnerships, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u34	Aren't we going to be called to vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u35	There is one reality here. There is a determination of the government to restore the real content of collective agreements, what you have made of a 'empty shirt'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u36	What are you talking about? I would like to ask you, Mr President, to look at the Minutes with Mr Koutsuku's position, because he is lying. He's a well-known muslim!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u38	Workers will again gain voice and strength, despite your screams, despite your practices, despite the break-up of labour relations. With determination, the government will proceed to its institutional work. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Very soon, then, instantly, you will see two bills submitted here. First of all, there will be regulation to guarantee the gradual reintroduction of minimum wages. This will come as a first move for an injustice that exists, as your government in 2012 violently reduced the minimum wage. It will restore for once only to levels before 2012 the minimum wage. And soon after that, the government will bring the bill on collective bargaining. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an absolute conscience, we know that when we talk about dealing with the humanitarian crisis, we do not have the illusion that this can be tackled with this very good, very necessary concrete step. We recognise the need to have a collective national strategy which, as its aim, will have to reinstate the work of the millions of unemployed and absent persons currently in existence. But just this step in this direction he wants to move. It is therefore a first necessary step and we do not understand all those who are trying to approach, through the logic of unilateral actions, this very specific and necessary legislative act that we are bringing today for a vote in this House. You know what? When all the social indicators strike red, unemployment, youth unemployment, child poverty, poverty as a whole, long-term unemployed, then that is very little to do, but with the potential of the opportunities given. You know, these are the real indicators that testify to the humanitarian crisis, which some are disturbing to call it that. So let's not disagree with the title. To the contents of agreeing. The humanitarian crisis is produced by capitalist practices. We know that. But that's a humanitarian crisis. These indicators are not one of those that are part of the evaluations of the partners. These indicators are mainly for use, to be reported in studies. These indicators do not fit in strict neoliberal logic, which assessed the progress of the Greek economy and the Greek government. But these indicators relate to real life, they relate to the real situations of tolerance, the misery that we see every day. And may yesterday the Representatives of the Communist Party really have talked to us about the figures we know, such as the millions of unemployed, about the tens of thousands of padlocks - on the same streets we are walking - but I want to ask one question: in the last five years things have deteriorated? Capitalism conditions were five years ago, conditions of capitalism are now. They're getting worse. What's the conclusion? We conclude that when there are connections, when alliances are created, when the movement - and on top of it - can play its autonomous class role, it can also have wins. So let us not sit aside as observers to record people's misfortune, but contribute, through our active day-to-day intervention, to changing the relationships and creating the conditions for changes to improve workers' lives first of all. Ladies and gentlemen, to return to the original issue - before Mr Kegeroglu has interrupted me - the amendment we tabled for the extension of the National Collective Convention was also a request from the GATT. So you understand why it was necessary, and indeed under the pressure of the fifty days that the House did not have the opportunity to get into this bill. From there on, I hear some speeches which we are being asked about, and yesterday, about the need to redesign the specific training programmes. I want to ask you a few questions. How do you judge, when you see a civil engineer, through these famous five-month training programs, go for four months, after he does a month's training, work in an intensive hospital and tell him: "All you have to do is, please, sit aside or outside. Can you only create problems? We have to assess this, do we have to redesign it? So why, at the moment, are you speculating, which is a flagrant mistake, and you do not come on the basis of your own experiences - you handled these things - to make a rationalisation, a redesign, to evaluate how the previous programmes went so that we can have the best efficiency? There's a lot of talk about the funds. Stop terrorizing the world. A practice, which has been done on several occasions, to make the best possible use of the funds available, has nothing to do with what you have done, the robbery attack on the funds reserves through the PSI. So you're judging the odds. Let go, then, of the world's terrorism. There are several comments that this bill should have been more specific, that perhaps some issues should not be referred back to ministerial decisions. We welcome these remarks and improve it as much as possible. But you know what? At the time when this debate is being held, you do not appreciate what you say in itself about the bill, but above all how you stand against this bill, which has been judged by part of our partners as a unilateral energy. Stop avading the plans of those European circles who want to strangle the current government. Now decide, for the first time, that you are in the interests of the Greek people and not those who want to maintain German neoliberal rigidity in Europe, because you know that the risk is precisely that. The problem is not, therefore, whether the Greek economy will stand on its feet for Europe's dominant circles. Their problem is to have a punishing example to that people who, in their vote, decided to question this German neoliberal rigidity that has been dominating over recent years. This struggle is much wider than the interests of the Greek people. It is a fight that goes in return for the interests of the European peoples. Understood. Understood and take a seat. This may be after five years the best offer you have to make in this place. So do not wish, as we saw yesterday in statements from top European officials, for today's effort to fail. Come on, even late, join your voice, following an effort that for the first time has the Greek people with her. You didn't have him. You didn't have him. You have lost political legitimacy and ruled support from abroad. You've done everything you can to get caught up with the government perpetrators. You know what? Those in and out of the country think that what we are interested in is in having some positions to do about the same thing you did. Dear to the previous Memorandum of Understanding, we do not care about that. We want to be consistent with our values, our ideas and our commitments to the Greek people. We know the difficulties, but we will read this way with all those who want to return dignity to this place, to return democracy and to function as it should, who recognise the need to turn the page and to have the concept of social justice as a whole in the political life of the country and in the course of this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u40	Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u41	Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, will you give me the floor for a minute because there has been a personal report?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u43	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, Parliament is, in principle, an area of dialogue, which we must indeed seek consent for our country. So I do not understand the Minister's negative attitude to what I said about consensus and cooperation in achieving common objectives. On the subject contained in the amendment, our position is perfectly clear. Apart from the delay, that is to say the frugality of coming to time, which is the Minister's right to bring it as late as or in the short term, the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman said in substance that we are in agreement. However, we disagree that it only restricts it to the GFCM National Cooperative Convention and does not refer to all collective agreements. And we were the ones who, on 27 April 2014, with the almost unanimous opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, we concluded the cooperation with ILO, the International Labour Organisation, in the direction of institutional restoration of collective bargaining, collective agreements. And the first steps were taken. In our own initiative this cooperation has been concluded. In fact, I was pleased when the Prime Minister referred to the use of this cooperation in order to move on to national restoration through social dialogue. So today we have a broader subject and should not just be limited to the National General Labour Convention, but to the whole of the conventions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u45	Does the Minister have anything to say about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u46	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u47	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u48	You realize that the National Collective Labour Convention has a special significance. I would like you to tell me if you are aware at this time of which contracts expire and which contracts are in force. I think you don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u49	Provisional...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u50	Watch out, then! It is of special importance, and that is why it is precisely specified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u51	We said we agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u52	However, in very few days' time what you say will also be a reality at the expense of individual contracts that are currently being made. So, then, we'll have a new landscape. I wish you the same courage, which you are today supporting and saying that, to do so, when you were the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u53	I took the initiative, Mr. Skourlet. You didn't take her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Kegeroglu, the Minister responded to the need to generalize the meteorology in the six months. The Minister has committed himself. So you agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u55	We made a commitment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u56	At this point, we welcome new visitors. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and five teachers - attending them from the 2nd High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you and wishes you health and good progress! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism has the floor for a brief statement now. Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to justify the amendment that exists and is tabled to the bill on the humanitarian crisis, for which I would like to speak in passing. But I believe that this is an excellent initiative by the government to take place, it must go ahead and make it clear that issues relating to social priorities are not negotiated in any context. I shall therefore turn to the amendment that we are tabling, which concerns the electronic procurement system, which was committed to starting from 1 March. The amendment essentially extends this period until the end of the year. The reasons are four. I will speak for the first reason, after clearing up directly and unnecessarily that the system will work, settle and will be the new way of operating all public procurement, including major projects up to any procurement of any public body. We are therefore committed that the work will be carried out and that we will move in this direction. This is a non-negotiable given fact. And it is not ready to work on 1 March for three main reasons: The first, the legislative gaps. When this process was introduced, it imposed a number of interim decisions which would make the whole process absolutely safe, transparent and effective. In addition, there is also the new European Union directive on public procurement, which calls on the Member States to implement it by the end of 2015 and the beginning of 2016 and which we intend to incorporate into the institutional framework for the electronic system and public procurement. We therefore intend to cover two loopholes in the next period: the new directive and the legislative gaps relating to ministerial decisions or others for the smooth implementation of the project. The second reason why deferral is necessary is that all public bodies should be prepared to join the electronic procurement system. This requires a process and know-how and the adjustment of the traditional system. This has been done at an important part of the agencies, but it has not been done to everyone. And because it is quite a complex matter, even when we have requests from universities, for example, which are, in theory, more ready than anyone else to join, that it takes a little more time, this suggests that there is an important issue for all actors to prepare for this. The third is the system of reception and management of all supplies. It has gone ahead, the infrastructure has been installed, important steps have been taken, and technically we do not guarantee that we are 100% ready. This is of enormous importance, because any question of safety or the smooth operation of the system must be absolutely complete. The fourth reason is that we currently need some time to make improvements and upgrades to the reception and operation system itself, which also requires a number of measures relating to staff, management of the system and certain planning issues. In these circumstances, firstly, we intend to postpone - and that is what we recommend - and, at the same time, to ensure all three conditions, the legislative initiatives that we are committed to bringing in and taking all the necessary steps to be ready. If we manage to be ready sooner, even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u60	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u61	You know that I have just arrived in the Chamber because, as you know, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group has internal processes. For this reason, the entire parliamentary group is absent, which will come as soon as we finish the proceedings. So I heard coming - and to restore order - that the New Democracy was criticised for its absence today from the Chairs of the House during the discussion. If this has happened, it is slander and unacceptable, in the sense that we have informed the House yesterday of the procedure that we are going to follow today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u62	Don't overreact. No criticism. It's a bad thing, and the Bureau has been properly exclaimed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u63	It's been criticised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u64	This is where Mr. Friend says he was criticised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u65	It's a matter of democratic order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u66	It's a matter of democratic order, Mr. Friend. In other words, we have informed the House yesterday that it has been a two-hour time before 12 noon, the New Democracy has parliamentary procedures and you find the opportunity to criticise a democratic process of the party. That's beyond any logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Philly, don't give in all the time. There are many colleagues who want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u69	You're welcome, Mr. President. Yeah, that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u70	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u71	We are not going to talk to the New Democracy in an enthusiastic manner. The programme of Parliament's procedures has come out of the Conference of Presidents since Friday. It was well known that the plenary will be working in the morning on the humanitarian crisis bill. I do not understand the excuse that yesterday the New Democracy said that it would be doing its own procedure. It is obvious that it is in this way insulting the functioning of Parliament. I would ask the Bureau to make it known in the new Republic that it is not possible for Parliament to function in this way. If the New Democracy, even in the middle sizes that the Group's parliamentary group has today, cannot find a year outside the predetermined working time of this Parliament to do its own procedures, it is not a matter that the Greek Parliament can take as a problem. And one last thing: there is a vote at first - I think - about 12.00' - 12.30'. It's already 11.15. Neither the Parliamentary Representatives of New Democracy nor SYRIZA have spoken. There has been no procedure as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Is it possible to continue this process with this spectacle? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Philly, you're a high-level political intervention. Do not insist on that. You've heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Brutsi, don't insist on this. You've been through this. Nothing new will be said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u75	I said it, and I am sorry that Mr. Friends with this style goes beyond what he has shown up to now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Brutsi, we don't have time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u77	Since Friday it's known. Tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Brutsi and Mr. Friend, this is over. Mrs Anna Vaguea has the floor from SYRIZA. Mrs. Bajas, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u79	I hope it's gonna be less than six minutes, because for a long time I'm up to talking and not anything else, but I've told my family that I'm gonna talk and think I'm lying to them. They're watching too. [[Noise in the Chamber]] First of all, Mr Kegeroglu, you are making too much noise. If I were a teacher, I would have expelled you from the Chamber. You keep talking! Mr Minister, I do not know exactly what the address is, but it does not matter, I particularly honour the bill - ladies and gentlemen, my very brief speech could have the title 'People behind the numbers'. I am very happy and proud that the first bill we are discussing in this House is that to deal with the humanitarian crisis. For me in a left-wing government, man must be and is above all. Because man is above the numbers, because so many years we have heard numbers and numbers and primary surpluses that we have to achieve and all of these from people who have solved their economic problem with huge wages and decide on the fates of other people, who have literally nothing. The rapporteur of the New Democracy spoke to us about the measures taken by the previous government to combat poverty, but he did not tell us who created this poverty. After five years they have impoverished the world, they have offered it a masses. Who will heal the souls of the people from humiliating the tail of the cubits? Who will once appreciate the destruction that has been done over all these years in the souls of children living in frozen homes, without electricity, with little or no food, and seeing their parents helpless? Everyone's talking about budgetary costs. Who's finally going to talk about human cost, about stricken souls? I have also heard it said that the bill is rough and hastily worked out and that they come with amendments, etc. The people who say it don't understand that we're in an emergency? I, for the only thing I would like to ask and point out, is that the bill should be passed and, above all, that it should be implemented as quickly as possible, because there really are people and families who do not know whether they can survive next month and whether they will be on the road with their children. I also believe that the bill is right, because it is dealing with people who live in poverty, not with forms of charity humiliating, but in a way that allows them to maintain their basic dignity, by paying them the rent and by providing them with an electronic card to shop the basic goods. This is important to me, the recovery of lost dignity. No more humiliation! I have heard a great deal of talk about the troika and what it will be called and whether the institutions will be. I want to mention something to you, because I very much note the details. What I'm going to tell you is true. I am surprised that as soon as Mr Soibelle with a great deal of courage he insisted on calling the troika institutions again - he did not say it from the outset, it was then - the next one they rushed to adopt the word again and the representatives of the New Democracy and their partners. In short, they got a line right away. Until then, they avoided her being called a troika. All right, gentlemen, that's what you do, to identify yourself completely with your friends - not to say with your bosses - Germany and others and let us say no "no" and show that there is another way, even difficult. Finally, I would like to make a proposal to the President. I don't know how it's done. All Members of this Parliament to sign a resolution of protest at the unacceptable intervention at the time Parliament met yesterday about whether this action was unilateral. The House is a dominant expression of the popular will and it is a huge insult to all of us. I therefore propose that all Members of the Greek Parliament sign a resolution without exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Baguea. My colleague from SYRIZA has the floor, Mr Famelos Socrates.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the Minutes the above document, which reads as follows:]] [[Take a picture of the page. 75]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary the humanitarian crisis bill is introduced after several meetings of the relevant committees. However, I would like to begin by saying that this first action by the House in this parliamentary term has first of all a symbolic character and sends a message to the Greek society. The first bill, then, of this parliamentary term, is a bill that refers to human life, refers to human values, refers to society and social cohesion, and puts an impediment to the downside of poverty, to the humiliation of hunger, to the downfall of the memorial, but also to the policies of austerity that have led us to this day. It also makes a division of values and raises the issues of the values of this government and this Parliament in a primary role. So the message we are emiting is that this House, this government, but also Greek society, considers human life more important, considers the equality of people more important, considers social cohesion, health but - if you want - the future, the youth, the children of the country from the numbers and the accountants. Of course, it stops - if you like - a logic that led us to this point, which could not see the reality of the country, but which the people saw and gave this answer to the elections on 25 January. However, the debate we are having, let me conclude that it is also a debate which presides on the political changes that are taking place in Greece and which have already been made so far. First of all, I would like to welcome the debate that has taken place in the committees, because the ministers and the government have, to a very large extent, accepted, through a dialectical spirit, proposals that have been tabled, which have advocated the same purpose, in the defence of society and of people. But we must also make two points on the part of Members. First of all, the people need to have a real debate within this House and make decisions, which will be specific. A debate on a process or political ghosts and general political announcements must leave through this House. It does not serve the people and the people understand when Parliament's debate is helping or not their own lives and reality, the real economy and the real society. Unfortunately, we have lived at times both in yesterday's debate and in the committee, where there has been a lot of time in the process, a lot of time for things that do not have substance for real policy. Unfortunately, we have also heard things that are not true, but are said only to create impressions. And we cannot answer these assumptions that are submitted. I would therefore like to say that it is an excess of shame for some politicians, for some representatives of the citizens, to come and speak today in the Greek Parliament and say that the funds are at stake or that the OPECE is in danger or that the Greeks are being saved from this government. During the committees we have often been placed and made clear that all Greek citizens have not to do today by this government is to fear, but only to hope. But what is the truth about the management of the public reserves of previous coexistence? I would also like to invite my dear colleague, Mr Kegeroglu, to answer me if it is true what I am going to read. You mentioned in your first speech that the public agencies' reserves are at risk. So let's see what happened in 2014. In 2014, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek central government asked creditors to launch internal lending with repos from the public agencies' available resources, which blame us for wanting us to do today. And while they agreed to reach 3 billion, they took it in September to 5 billion and closed it at the end of 2014 to 8.6 billion euros. In practical terms, what the government is accused of wanting to do today, you have done so with the above, taking the funds available to the central government agencies. Of course, I am not talking about what the Minister, Mr Skourletis, has already said about how you cut the funds' reserves with the PSI. Why is it possible to criticise an amendment which says very simply that the state guarantees with this and gives a higher interest rate on the funds than any government of your two-party parties so far since post-multiple? That is the reality, because this government is now guaranteeing. The wages and pensions of the funds shall be guaranteed. That's the reality. And if you want to talk a little bit about responsibility, Mr Georgiadis is certainly not here - and many Members of the New Democracy are not here today - but yesterday he told us that it was our responsibility and washes his hands on the agreement and the negotiation that we are negotiating. We would like to have the whole House with us in claiming the laws of the Greeks. If you don't want to, don't come with us. But the responsibility for how we got this far is all yours. Because I cannot afford to hear any populism about where the Papageorgiou Hospital is today - where the Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessaloniki became the one with no wages. But I would like to tell you that the largest surgical hospital in Thessaloniki, the Hippocrates, has no coronary, cannot deal with conventional cardiological problems. This is the anticipation of the policy of the memorials that has reached us this far. That's why we don't talk about rope in the hanger's house. Here we came to help Greece and not to make general politics. Ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian crisis bill comes to restore credibility on the Greek political scene. The first pillar of Thessaloniki's program is the first bill. This is consistent with the Greek people and with the announcements. And we are very pleased that the Thessaloniki programme, the SYRIZA programme, has become a matter for all the parties of the Greek Parliament and you all resign because we do not implement it fully. Thank you for supporting it. Together we will claim to implement it fully. That was SYRIZA's target in the first place. Because we, ladies and gentlemen, are not pleased that millions of Greeks are on the verge of poverty. We are not pleased that the first bill we will discuss is for a hundred and fifty thousand, two thousand Greeks, who have no food, have no housing, have no electricity. We're not happy about our country's downhill. But we know what the reason is and we do not want to discuss with you why we have come to this. We do not want to accuse you of a policy that brought Greece into this fall. We want to find the causes together so you won't do it again. Because we know what the reasons are, but you need to know them too. It is this policy of austerity in Europe that has led to this fracture. We have reached small municipalities in the region - I will refer to a municipality of the Second Region of Thessaloniki - to have a voluntary organization that feeds two and a half thousand people daily from volunteer offerings, without any contribution, when there is a social grocery store in the same municipality that feeds another five hundred families. This is Greece of 2015. This is the Greece of the success story. Because successory is not just empty funds, they are empty souls. That is the problem in Greece today. And this government - but I would like to say to the Greek Parliament - has an obligation to give Greek souls a vision, to give Greek citizens the inspiration and to support them, Madam Minister, with an overall plan to combat the humanitarian crisis, with support and self-government and volunteering, so that a solid integrated project can be the network of Greek society, which will not let anyone fall into the crisis alone. But, at the same time, only the fight against austerity and policy change in Europe is the fundamental change that will reduce the problems of the humanitarian crisis, because it will combat the substance, which is economic policy. Allow me, Mr President, only one word on corruption. It is indebted to the political system and to society, to the country with the greatest poverty, with the greatest unemployment, with 45% child poverty, to have the greatest economy, greater smuggling, greater economic crime and more corruption. It is inconsistent for all international observers to accept that the big problem after five years of memorandum is that you have not combated corruption and the grievance of the economy. And I think, my dear Minister, that you have put the cubit high, but we all need to help together, because together with the fight against corruption and the prevention of economic crime, we have an obligation to prove that Greece can be fair. Because the Greeks have always been honest. The political system corrupted the Greeks so that they could survive and renew a bleak political power which, unfortunately, multiplied the profits of only a few. That's the goal, if you want, of having this bill. It is not only to save the Greeks from the crisis, especially the deep poverty, but also to restore the sense of law, to show that we have come to honour the legitimacy and to keep the true balance between the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Femmel. Ladies and gentlemen, we will postpone the roll-call vote until at least 13.00 p.m. to speak to Members, because many Members have written. The Members must speak, because it is the first bill to be discussed. Therefore, by 13.00 p.m. we will go with Members' speeches and parliamentary representatives will be involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u84	Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to read out a statement from the JRC Parliamentary Group, which we shall be tabling in the Minutes. This statement reads as follows: "Golden Dawn, taking advantage of the position of the President of Parliament, submitted a request for a roll-call vote on the bill discussed in plenary. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, which has already declared itself to be voting for "PARS" at the outset of the draft legislation, will not participate in the roll-call vote that was drunk to give an alibi to the presence of the convicted Members of the Golden Dawn. The Government must assume its responsibility towards these methods, which are designed to cultivate a climate of tolerance for the criminal Nazi organisation of the Golden Dawn." Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u86	We continue with the Members' speeches. Mr Gregory Stavros from SYRIZA is requested to make use of the expanse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by implementing its pre-election commitment, the Government today brings to the plenary the first bill on dealing with the humanitarian crisis, on the organisation of the government and the governmental bodies and other provisions. For the sake of time, I will only refer to the part of the bill dealing with the humanitarian crisis. After five years of the implementation of a violent political austerity dictated by the disastrous memorials and laws adopted by the governments and constituencies of PASOK and New Democracy at the request of foreign lenders, we have now come to the extreme limits of economic impoverishment of a large part of the Greek people, which, unfortunately, has also been accompanied by a deterioration of Parliament, with the government majorities in these years voting obediently and coordinates, as soldiers, the aestheticity of the body of acts of legislative content and bills of eight hundred pages and one article, violating every concept of parliamentary and constitutionality, making our democratic citizens a happy place. All these policies implemented have led to the violent poverty of Greek society and the explosive rise in unemployment, making our country a champion in unemployment and poverty all over Europe. The violent and persuasive implementation of the most extreme neoliberal policies have destroyed every social and economic structure in the country, the results of which, year after year, we have experienced them, in order to reach our days in their most extreme form. We have arrived in a European country in 2015 to experience situations of extreme poverty with children fainting from assimilation in schools, fellow citizens looking for food in garbage cans, homeless, families living in miserable conditions, in homes without electricity, sick fellow citizens, who are in mechanical support dying due to the interruption of electricity supply, as a result of failure to pay. We ended up seeing our fellow humans - and young people and excerpts of society - marginalised socially, as their need for survival is oppressing their dignity and costing them to the tails of the squirrels. There, ladies and gentlemen of the PASOK and of the New Democracy, you have led our people to insurers, without medical treatment, without food, without shelter. We see nightmare images that our country did not live in, even when it came to a victorious, delighted, from World War II. Only after war has such a loss of national income been observed. In other words, we have a real social and economic disaster, a disaster of infrastructure, education and health, and especially of the second, which we live every day through the collapse of the ESS. Unfortunately, a sad first has the hospital in my special homeland of Lefkada, which, from an unforeseen event, a doctor’s illness, was brought to a close the pathological clinic. The SYRIZA Social Rescue Government today brings today the specific bill, which in its first part, dealing with the humanitarian crisis, with three targeted moves, takes the first step towards tackling this major problem. It is the tripartite: providing free electricity, providing food, providing shelter to our fellow people who experience extreme poverty. We're not saying we're solving the problem. We are, however, taking the first step from many other steps to follow, respecting our election commitment of the first pillar to our originals in Thessaloniki. We are not going to solve the problem right now and we know it. But we give a breath to society so that it can stand up so that millions of fellow citizens can come back to society. That's where the bill is aimed at restoring social cohesion. It's the first bill of government, but with strong symbolism. I invite you all to vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Gregory. Mrs. Gennamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the first bill of government, which has been spent about a month and a half in an internal communication game and a game of ambiguity, creativity, he says, abroad. They consider that time runs in favour of our country, while the opposite is true. The government is wasting the country's time. We don't say we don't negotiate. Do it. But you must understand that Greece's strong negotiating paper is not the country's possible collapse, nor a new Cugie. They are the sacrifices of the Greek citizens, with whom the deficit has disappeared, the deficit which, with your inertia, is at risk of being rebuilt today. The election uncertainty has led us to post-election concern. Insecureness and lack of liquidity kill the prospects for growth of the economy that had been transparent in the second half of 2014. After all, they say so to your members: "Leave statements and interviews with the Acropolis background and grab the steering wheel before it's too late". The total lack of plan has increased the reluctance of our country, while at the moment that Europe is in fact cutting money to boost its economy, which should have started a long time ago, we are blocking ourselves. As much as you use communication tricks, you will soon find that this tactic cannot last for long. You want to convince the Greek people that the memorandum is over? Yeah, it should be over already. What does the program you signed contain? Financial suffocation? You want to convince the Greek people that the troika no longer exists. Let us say that it does not exist and the three institutions were born. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is that the crisis is not over, hope does not seem and debt has not been deleted. So the question is not what's going on, but what's going on! We've got a hard way ahead. Serious problems that cannot be solved either by communication or by bread or by spectacle. They are only solved honestly, with the agreement of the political forces, with a specific plan, and now the time has come to put aside the micro-party interest. What we're telling you is, "Don't!" Don't you dare what you didn't do in the past few years. Proceed to dialogue, take advantage of the experience. Ladies and gentlemen, I am really sorry that in the case of the bill we are discussing, the government operates exactly the same way: it is trying to baptize fish. It refers to extreme poverty, but it does not define it. It has no specific provision for who will be the real beneficiaries of the measures it presents today, with a great risk of creating a new customer mechanism. It also has no specific provision for how measures will be implemented in practice, with which mechanisms, when they will begin and whether there will be continuity. Finally, it does not really connect them to the other social policy actions of the state. At the audience hearing, Minister and Minister, did you hear what they said? Have you read their proposals? Social policy cannot be fragmentary. It must be coherent and targeted. It is comforting that at least Mrs Fotou recognised and amended the provisions so that those who are really poor, as PASOK had said at the outset, would not be excluded from the beneficiaries of the programme. But that's not good enough. Please accept the amendment we have tabled, to complete the pilot programme of guaranteed social income and to extend it. His execution, in fact, will be a new starting point. Because we need a national plan to tackle poverty and social cohesion. However, although we will vote for these provisions as PASOK, can we not ask ourselves: Only these three proposals, which are rough, unprocessed and are left to the level of intent, were the plan to tackle exclusion and the crisis? On the other hand, instead of building a serious and effective anti-corruption body, you are building up a maze of co-responsibility, cooperation and networks, which, instead of resolving the hands of the audit bodies and ensuring economies of scale, will lead to even greater delays in the already produced work. In the management of the public sector, unfortunately, you are based on the same culture that has led us to this point. This proves your study to appoint Deputy Secretary-General to the Ministries, armies of consultants, without any provision for the parallel exercise of their profession. You are creating another counsellor's position in the presidency, and of course, you are coming with an amendment, while you have tabled the ERT bill to discuss, abolish the supervisory and appoint yourself the Minister of Management at the ERT. This is another missed opportunity for this public broadcaster on radio and television. I urge you to withdraw this amendment and discuss it here in Parliament in detail when you bring the bill, with what conditions can we have an independent multi-species democratic body, the one that Greek society needs at the moment. It is a pity, because the crisis bill will include all those provisions relating to the "daimers". But it's important. The country needs a serious programme for the final exit of the crisis requiring agreement of the political forces so that we can obtain the widest possible social consensus. The future of the country, ladies and gentlemen, is not poverty. Our homeland can grow again, with middle-class star and that must be the goal of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Mr Kyriazidis Dimitris has the floor from the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u91	Colleagues and colleagues, today a bill is being discussed in the Greek Parliament, which in practice bears the title: 'Agreements on measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis'. Of course, this is not a bill, but a bill, the first part of which refers to the humanitarian crisis. Unfortunately, however, we see this crisis growing every day. More has had a communication objective and a role for this type of plan to show in society that there is a sensitivity from the government now, and a satisfaction - if you like - with regard to election commitments. I have heard many of the government's colleagues say that there is indeed no magic wand, so that issues that the government has undertaken to satisfy are resolved within a short period of time. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we were saying as the first elected Members of the New Democracy during the previous term. However, we have never been heard, never had yours - I would say - consensus, yours. Today, of course, you are doing what you are doing and ask for the opposition, and in particular for the Civic Opposition to take this effort, because it is a national effort. The New Democracy exists, even in the way that the effort is being made. That is to say, a scorch is given, but this scorching also has one value. That is why we agree - if you like - and we are voting on the relevant text which refers to specific articles. The rest of the articles are about what you were committed to and as Opposition to do, not to come bills whose articles or amendments are inconsistent with the contents of the bill. I have to say, Minister, in the first part, because you do not tell us until now where these sums will be found in order to cover what you are trying to satisfy. At the same time, we know very well that there is a programme in this regard with regard to the country's food effort for a five-year period. It is 330 million in response to the problem. In mid-December, on behalf of the New Democracy Government, there was a start to satisfy the relevant programme, namely to give 55 million per year, for which, of course, we do not see you taking an initiative at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u92	You didn't hear. Read the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u93	You can then place again. As also, on this issue, which is of the utmost importance and relates to the minimum guaranteed income, which you have undone, we could work together, so that there is a real satisfaction of those who are in poverty or who are at the limit of poverty. It is, therefore, right to point out by my fellow Members, but also by me, that the de facto multi-project on the humanitarian crisis does not respond to what society has been expecting and still awaiting. On the other hand, of course, we have issues that are exacerbating the humanitarian crisis and creating huge problems, such as the 'liberation' of immigrants detained in detention centres. We see Athens is filled. If you run all the roads you will see exactly - especially at night - where these people have ended up and how exactly we look after them and ensure them. As long ago as no care has been taken to ensure that our particular fellow humans are properly brought to places, a huge issue arises. We will see that and then in front of us. Over a hundred and fifty people declare the same address. You can look at the relevant data and see this. There are detention centres - I would say this is of particular importance - as far as health, safety and residence are concerned, which are standards such as that of the Parallel Drama, which is going to be closed down. This is where a huge problem arises because we have come out as lame and have announced that in our country anyone can come. This is a huge issue and we will see it before us. I now come to the second part on dealing with corruption. Minister, I think that a party state controlled on a case-by-case basis is being created. I do not have the time to talk, but we will all find this before us, and the SYRIZA colleagues and colleagues. A General Secretariat to be supervised and supervised by the Minister concerned shall be established. We are aware of the good intentions of the Minister, but unfortunately this is not the case. Then you will see what will happen with this coordination, which cannot be given by decision of the Minister to people who will only temporarily move to party control. Furthermore, as far as volunteers are concerned, you did not tell us what their number and costs are, apart from the other issues, which, as our Parliamentary representative has said, we will find before us. I must note that an amendment concerning the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps has been tabled for an eight-month period in search of their drafting and one-off. You were committed to abolishing this provision so that it could be calculated. To date, because there is no relevant type, it is not possible to calculate the one-off or pension, so that a large number of members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies remain without any compensation, whether they are single or pensionable. I would ask you to do this for which you have committed yourself as a government to implement it. Of course, I declare that the first part of the bill on the humanitarian crisis, as emphasised by my party, will be voted on for my part. The second part - the other articles - is not voted for. For my part, the amendment on the satisfaction of suppliers who feed the detention centres concerned will be voted on, because these people have indeed been paid for five months. Otherwise, Mr President, my vote is negative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Have you asked for the floor, Mr. Friend, and you, Mr. Nicolopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u95	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u96	Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is going on the basis of the people's mandate, which is clear, to get out of austerity, to go into growth, to reduce the debt, and all this reintegrating our country into the European Union and the Eurozone, because the memoranda has made it a parable. It is clear that this is not an amendment or one day. It's a continuous struggle, a struggle of endurance, a struggle of intermediate goals, conquests, alterations of emotions, ahead - back. But it is a struggle with a plan - I say it again - to break the blockages of austerity, to get into growth, to reduce the debt, which is a prerequisite for us to get into growth and restore the country's prestige within the Eurozone and the European Union. In our struggle, we are not alone. We are with the peoples of Europe who are daily aware of the deadlocks of the policy of neoliberalism and austerity in Europe. We are even with the powers of the European elites, who find that Europe is deepening, slipping back into recession and at the end, when other major economic and political integrations, such as the United States, are coming out of the crisis. We're not alone. We have made the Greek problem a few days, not a Balkan peculiarity, as it was facing, but an international problem, a central issue in the world economy. It is precisely this success that gives us the optimism that we will achieve a political solution to the problem that we are facing in the medium term. We face the hostility of large centres and strong centres both inside and outside the country. On the other hand, it is understandable, who and for what reasons, political and economic, want the Greek effort to fail as an example of punishment for all the peoples of Europe. But stronger than it seems, it is the reaction from the media, which sometimes has cooperation and coordination with the outsiders. They are the rings of corruption, political and economic, who see that SYRIZA's efforts, which are becoming increasingly popular, will lead them definitively to the past and will lead the country with steady progress. The blackmails that are being blackmailed from outside and inside will fall, which want to prevent the legislative work of this government. We shall proceed, without giving any reason, to what we have announced and which is entirely within the framework of the financial adjustment, namely the humanitarian crisis bill, the 100-digit bill, the first-dwelling auction bill, the ERT bill, but also to a number of other humanitarian measures such as those announced by the Ministry of Justice yesterday regarding the abolition of Type III prisons, the release of minors, heavy patients and disabled persons, the introduction of alternative sentences for dependants and the punishment of bulling. Unfortunately, there was no peculiar offence and punishment for the bulling in our country. With the tragic event in Iannina, this issue comes back from a humanitarian standpoint again. These blackmails will therefore fall into the blanket and we will insist on the implementation of the framework of the agreement, which we signed with the Eurogroup on 20 February. It is a framework that makes a move to reform in the country and makes the memorandum and the fifth evaluation definitive. At the same time, we will insist that, in the transition period of four months, until the debt issue is finally clarified and finally regulated, there is a duty on the loan contract for creditors to give the money to our country. If the lenders continue a game of extortion and ultimatum and continue to tighten the noose around the neck of the Greek people, then the government has no alternative but to respond to this unilateral action by the lenders, resorting to the only powerful weapon that it has, which is to defend the interests of the Greek people, the function of the Greek state, the obligations it has to the Greek citizens as a priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u98	Explain that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u99	We therefore warn that we will not become passive recipients of unilateral operations on the part of lenders. Our view is clear and we make it very clear to anyone who wants to hear it again. We do not take unilateral action, but we will not tolerate unilateral actions at the expense of the Greek people. It is clear that it does not govern a government under comitology nor by partial authority and mandate. It governs a government that wants to restore national sovereignty, democracy, national dignity for the country's international prestige, the social and democratic rights of citizens, whatever that means, to reach this objective gradually. Ladies and gentlemen, I have referred to the objectives of the Greek Government and the need for a political solution. Already the Prime Minister of the country is moving towards the moves you know, within the European Council, bilateral and multilateral. A powerful element that we keep on the table is the country's geopolitical paper. We are not alone in a pan-state Germany, in a Germany that wants its European yard. We are within Europe and with other powers, but we are also open to political and economic cooperation with other major global powers, such as China, Russia, the United States, the forces of developing countries. We are not alone in the jaws of an orthodox Germany, a threat to the unity of Europe. Let this be made clear. They're not words. As far as our legislative work is concerned, it is clear that we are seeking to change the daily lives of the citizen and thus understand that, apart from changing our relationship with the lenders, because of this change, in so far as we are going to be able to achieve it, there will be a rapid change in his everyday life. The bill we are discussing today on the humanitarian crisis is precisely the first symbolic, but also a substantial presence of this new government's policy. We know it's not much money. We know that we cannot meet all our commitments, which exist within the framework of the four-year period. We know that this money could also be in two cases: firstly, if there were the primary surplus in the funds, which the previous government claims was inheriting and failing in the current government. ELSTAT's official figures speak of a surplus of 0.3% of GDP and not 1.5% of GDP, as the previous government had committed. In fact, 0.3% was achieved at the expense of social rights, health, education and pensions. Unfortunately, this is the success story. Secondly, if we could have exploited - it was not the previous government - Community funds. One of the rapporteurs of the Opposition Party said that on 15 December they found funds from the European Neighbourhood Fund. What did you do with it? Soon you found them, and soon you remembered them! It is clear that the issue of the humanitarian crisis for the first time this government is making it a European issue. Recognises that the Memorandums have caused a humanitarian crisis in our country and, therefore, it is a fundamental expression of European solidarity that the funding of the humanitarian crisis programmes is being financed. From there we will find money to raise expenditure on the humanitarian crisis, so that we can give the millions of our fellow citizens who are diagnosed by the memoranda and austerity. That and the fight against corruption. Because the bill is a double bill. It doesn't have two things, two issues, which are unrelated to each other. It's very relevant. It's the other one's condition. In other words, the fight against corruption is an important condition to change the model of social policy in our country, to give priority to those people who do not have and are the subject of a great over-exploitation. At the same time, strengthening the funds of the humanitarian crisis is another element that justifies this government policy. We have heard a criticism that the government has not adopted the minimum guaranteed income and therefore proceeded with a policy which is not comprehensive or, as has been said, voter's vote. First of all, the minimum guaranteed income was and remains a proposal by SYRIZA - we have tabled a proposal for a law - but in other circumstances, when poverty was not more than 10% of the Greek people, and now it has fallen to 22% of the Greek people, when unemployment was five hundred thousand and now it is one and a half million. So discussing without seeing reality is at least a scientific or social dogmatism. I would like to stress - and the Minister responsible, Mrs Fotou - that we will evaluate the programmes to see the issue of minimum guaranteed income. We do not, however, want the minimum guaranteed income to prevent work being reinstated. We do not want it to be a diffuse policy for the distribution of resources. We do not want it to become a ballot, as happened with the social dividend on several occasions. So - and I conclude with this criticism - it is clear that the battle we are fighting today is targeted, it is at the centre of the battle that has the child, families with children as a priority criterion for the distribution of humanitarian aid, which is the first stage, the first allegiance to the generalised response to the humanitarian crisis, while - and I repeat - the fight to regulate the debt. We are aware that the battle for the humanitarian crisis and the other issues must respond to the people's sense of justice. What has happened has a strong element of illegality, concerns cases of corruption, political responsibility, and possibly criminal responsibility. Our government has committed itself before the Greek people that it will proceed to the liquidation of these cases. I have left one last point which I have heard from the JRC Parliamentary spokesman on the proposal for a roll-call vote tabled by the Golden Dawn. First of all, I note the reasoning behind Mr Karathanasopoulos's intervention. He's worried about us. He doesn't think we're indifferent. We would like to stress, however, that we will support the bill tabled by the government in every way if it is put to the House. We do not have the luxury of an announcement of 'present' and then we do not vote. We shall vote if there is a roll-call vote. And it is clear that supporting the bill is an answer to those who probably want in this Chamber to create from other directions, with various parliamentary terminology, in order to circumvent the social substance of the crisis we are experiencing. The dilemma facing Europe - and thankfully not yet Greece because of the democratic abundance of SYRIZA - is that, if the policy of austerity and unemployment continues in Europe, we will have an extension of the phenomenon of 'leenism', of right-wing influence, that is to say, if we are going to welcome the democratic and anti-fascist acquis on which post-war Europe and the hopes of the peoples for the prosperity and development of Europe have been built. So that is what they are afraid of in Europe too, that there can be an alternative, another way, to show that a one-way response to austerity is the proposal that shapes - with contradictions and difficulties, but with organic unity with the people and with the recognition of the people - the SYRIZA Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Philly. I would also like to make an announcement here about the presence of our hopeful young people. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and four educational sessions from the Municipal School of Agios Georgios Viotias. The House welcomes them and wishes them health and good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Evangelos Venizelos, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, more than fifty days have passed since the election day. It is reasonable to ask where we are almost two months later. The bill we are discussing is, moreover, the first bill of the new government, which is introduced into the House, and the major issue of the country's strategic orientation is absolutely unresolved. What we have certainly seen over the last fifty days is, unfortunately, a rapid deterioration in all economic sizes. First of all, with a lack of revenue, contradictory messages in relation to the tax obligations of Greek citizens, partial internal cessation of payments that is "stopping" the market and causing very serious liquidity issues. We are observing a cyber panic of the government because the public's cash requirements are exacerbated. The so-called plan for financing without obligations through the European Central Bank, the ELA, the Greek banks and the continuous issue of interest-rate notes of the Greek State failed. The country has been experiencing the torture of the dropper for weeks waiting for the decisions of Mr Draghi and the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. The insurance fund reserves are becoming a kind of prey to the government's attempt to deal with short-term, short-term issues. We observe a cannibalism with no perspective between the flows, for which these reserves are used and the cover of the issues of the interest stamps of the Greek State. There are problems even with Community subsidies to farmers, such as the last we have lived in relation to cotton producers and OPEKEPE. But the same goes for financial figures. The uncertainty regarding the banking system affects the conduct of depositors. Non-performing loans shall be increased. Lending is not available. Investments in large, small, medium-sized projects are not promoted. The need, unfortunately, for a new recapitalisation of the banks arises. While this is the case, the Government has lost its 11 billion-dollar reserve of the Financial Stability Fund, which has been fully controlled by the EFSF, in order to use them for future recapitalisation needs, but in the context of the new regulatory scheme, the new directive. So not according to the method we followed in the two previous recapitalisations, and that means too much for the stability of the Greek banking system. Nobody's dealing with the real economy. There is a complete lack of government policy even governmental reason for what is called growth, investment, employment. The question of unemployment, the issue of poverty, is being tackled institutionally, predictively. This is important, but it is not the final solution. It's temporary, emblematic solutions. It is only growth that solves the problem of unemployment and drastically reduces poverty. There is, of course, no discussion about foreign investment. There is complete ambiguity and contradiction with regard to privatisation. The market has sat down. Consumer behavior is defensive. Of course, in these fifty days, unfortunately, all the advantages gained by the Greek economy have been lost, thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people. Is the government withdrawing or regretting why the primary surplus with strict application of Eurostat rules is 0.3% for 2014? What does that mean? That he would accept this type of calculation in the budgetary gap negotiation? So for the country's financial needs? The primary deficit is shaped, you know it very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u102	Excess.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u103	The primary deficit in 2015 is shaped by the government's behaviour. It is the political management of the issue that brings us back to the primary deficit from which we have had a thousand labors. The last three months, December, January, the two election months, and February - the first two months of each year are financially accounted for in the previous year - are the months of the rapid deterioration in the country's budget performance. These are the ones who reduced the primary surplus, but a surplus still. Now where are we going? We also lost the second advantage. The prospect of a positive growth rate. He was recorded in 2014. It should be maintained for 2015. Of course, we have lost, unfortunately or tended to lose the third advantage, a stable banking system, which gradually deprives its relationship with the European Central Bank. Instead of this happening, we now have overdependence on the European Central Bank, which tends to reach the amount of deposits. Dependence on the European Central Bank is slowly surpassing 110 billion when the deposits are about 135 billion in the Greek banking system only. The worst part is that within fifty days the country's strategic framework was destroyed. Instead of the government continuing to negotiate on the substance, from our own red lines, adding issues and claiming topics on the substance, it questioned the framework, because it wanted to play with words and pretexts. It did not make use of it in February in order to make a substantial negotiation aimed at leaving the memorandum and moving to the preventive credit line, gaining substantial agreements with the partners. He dealt with how the troika would be called, whether the extension is an extension or a bridge and he lost the essence by losing valuable time and stepping up in the negotiation. The result? The country does not have a strategic framework. We were talking about completing the latest assessment with strong red lines for the protection of citizens and social cohesion. Payment of the remaining instalments of 2014. Exit the Memorandum. Preventive credit line. Conversion of the International Monetary Fund programme also into preventive. Protected gradual return to markets. Implementation of 2012 debt decisions and the improvement of sustainability study and therefore, the macroeconomic framework and budgetary targets, because it is absolutely right to say, I have to have a lower primary surplus target. But this should result from the agreed macroeconomic framework and the improvement of debt parameters. Not to lead to an extension of the country's stay to the memorandum and the margin of the euro area. Instead of applying this framework with better, more reliant and agonist terms than the new government, we have led to the strategic gap. We have a constant tour within the tornado of the contradictions of the government. Look out! We have spent huge powers, negotiation, policies, national dictionaries and pretexts. Not to say the troika, troika, but to call them institutions and then Bruxelles Group and Athens Group and chase them from a hotel to a hotel, as if that were the field of the new Albanian Epic. The initial position was not an extension. "We do not accept an extension of the memorandum of the loan contract programme and we do not want the instalments that are missing. We want funding from the European Central Bank with an increase in the treasury threshold. So what did we have? We had the new Gospel, the new Revelation, the Agreement of February 20. After living on February 11, 16, week - week, we are earning time and eating the flesh of our country and of the economy. And what happened February 20th? An agreement has been concluded which is similar to the previous agreement without funding. As has been said before, the government claimed funding without a memorandum and took a memorandum without funding. And it plays with words to the detriment of its Members, because, of course, the extension of the main financial facility contract signed without Parliament's approval and authorisation, is identical to the previous one, the same conditions which have been violently condemned here since the SYRIZA opposition and, furthermore, the condition of removing the control of 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund is contained. In other words, this convention, which was signed in the absence of the House, is very painful. And the text isn't coming. I had to ask for it with a request for documents. You will come and you will be bothered, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to read it and compare it to the previous one, to understand what has been signed by the Minister of Finance, without the authorisation and permission of the House. Of course, we currently have a constant anxiety to take the doses we did not want two months ago. And while we have reached a successful agreement - it is supposed - there is no answer to this agreement on financial needs by April and April, if there is a specialization and agreement on details and whether there is an evaluation. Otherwise we will have the other terminus, which is June, at the end of June. So, what do we do right now? In fact, we have left the country deeply in Memorandum 2 while we were going out on 28 February and are preparing for after 1 July to enter even deeper and for an unspecified period of time in Memorandum 3. And, supposedly, the government proposes its own reformist ideas, many times per se, or by touching the line of graphics when it proposes cabled smugglers of small and medium-sized tax collectors or a list of gambling that Mr. Tsipras had passionately denounced as head of the Opposition. And of course not all these weeks about the debt. Where's the debt conversation? But the objective of the primary surplus depends on the debt debate. And the answer to the question whether the country can have an exit strategy from the memorandum or not. No talk. Does the President of Parliament take initiatives in what government policy? Government policy does not exist in relation to debt. Of course, all this is now being transferred to a conflict over who has the power, that is to say, the power and power to clarify the creative ambiguity of the wording of 20 February. But who has the power to clarify the unclearness? The one with the money in his hands and the one you expect to meet your cash needs so that you don't have a credit event. And so, we come to the guerrilla war of unilateral movements, as is the case with the bills that are being introduced and now, in accordance with the urgent procedure as we see fit with the hundred-dollar bill. We, ladies and gentlemen, will also vote for the bill now introduced for discussion and the bill on the hundred instalments, although it is very important to remember that there is a voting arrangement for the hundred instalments, which also provides for a complete deletion of fines and surcharges for those who use it up to 30 March. We will also vote for the provision on auctions, although the auctions are not carried out by the Greek banking system. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But I'll tell you this. First house auctions are not made by the banking system. They're made from the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u104	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u105	Listen and hold what I'll tell you. We, ladies and gentlemen, are voting for these provisions, but we are not going to vote against them if the government comes at some point under the pressure of the partners to ask Parliament to vote against these provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u106	You have experience of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u107	As long as you remember and use the fact that the integrated plan for dealing with poverty presented by Mr Kegeroglu has been agreed with the European Union and this is a substantial and serious response to their objection: 'You have not put it in mind'. Because what we had agreed was much more comprehensive and ambitious and has had a much greater financial cost than the bill that you have now entered. Of course, we also voted on the percentages and refused to change this arrangement. I wonder, isn't the application of this regulation sufficient? We have to go to ten-day tax discounts, to a law that will only apply ten days to take advantage of who? The major debtors, who have been accountable to make use of an exceptional provision, a law - which has been in force for ten days? We will take stock of who and how it will benefit from the application of this curious provision, the ten-day amputation of fines and surcharges, without any limit of debt, i.e., for the large - primarily - debtors of the Greek public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u108	You have given one billion, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u109	Of course, we'll see how much you'll be happy with this bill now. Keep an account. And in the meantime, is the state ruling? Societies feel safe? Is there a government line on immigration, is there a line on the occupation of law, in relation to violence in the centre of towns? In relation to the attacks on parties offices, like yesterday when there was a new criminal attack on the PASOK offices? Is there a education policy? Is there a model of merit? Is there a policy on re-entry and, in general, on the reconstruction of public administration? There's unfortunately nothing. There is a desperate attempt - I have heard it before - to present theories of international conspiracy against the government now. There's the external enemy. Is the entire international community, the European institutions, Germany?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u110	Your friends!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u111	The Christian Democrats of the European People's Party and the Social Democrats of the European Socialist Party? Mr. Draghi? Who are the external enemies? And at the same time, it is the previous government and the former government, the internal enemy. Because, he says, the memorandum caused the crisis, including humanitarian. My impression is that the crisis, which was very deep, caused the memorandum and only if we experienced the crisis of incomplete bankruptcy, we would understand what it was that the country escaped. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to what we have done at huge cost, we have not experienced the profound humanitarian crisis of uncompromising bankruptcy, and I hope we do not live now, because now is the crisis of uncompromising bankruptcy over the sacrifices suffered by the Greek people to escape this crisis. And we have the last refuge, the political negotiation. Do you think we had another type of negotiation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u112	You didn't make any negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u113	At the one and only meeting I had with Mr Tsipras, I told him that he had to ask for such a summit, as we have done many times in the past. All the big steps, including the top is the step towards the haircut and the radical restructuring of the debt are a product of similar meetings. And I have a lot of experience of such meetings. A similar meeting, however, you must remember that it was the Cannes meeting, and not the five-way meeting, which was part of the International Monetary Fund, with two participants on each side. It doesn't matter if you reach the procedural type of a high-level meeting, but you know what you want to say, have prepared the meeting, have political and technical arguments and do things in the right order. Have you realised that it's ineffective first to make a meeting with the presence of others and then a meeting with Mrs. Merkel? Do you not realize that the right order of things would first be to hold a bilateral meeting with German Chancellor and then a five-way meeting with both the French President and the institutions of the European Union? What do you think will happen tomorrow? What will be done is "Every good, we want Greece in the euro, we want to help. Complete the technical evaluation of the institutions and go to discuss in the Eurogroup that is the institutions responsible." And of course, our political will will say, as they always say, is the best. But without a complete plan, what are you doing? You're going to win a week. From week to week. And anyway, at the moment, the outstanding instalments are doses of the International Monetary Fund which has its own procedures and is not even taking part in tomorrow's meeting, the so-called five-day meeting. Instead, what do we see? What is political preparation? The nationalist outbreak, the agarbo anti-Germanism, the preparation of the parade, the personal attacks on European policies, the involvement of even historically just and morally extremely important issue of German corrections. Mr Varoufakis' narcissistic festival has broken into and weakened the country and what I hear about international correlations and the geopolitical horizon, I fear they are illusions. You give the United States, Russia, China, qualities and designs that they do not have and do not want to have in relation to Greece, the interpretation of the European Union, and of course NATO's interpretation. At first you were enthusiastic about the French Government, the Italian Government, other regional meetings. Result zero! It's just dragging the country from day to day, from week to week. I conclude with the central question: Is there a strategy? I have already heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman attempt to present a strategy. What's this strategy, then? Just to say it. Is this the break strategy? Is the strategy of honest compromise, as Mr. Tsipras told the OECD a few days ago? What does "integrated compromise" mean? What do the partners tell us? They say that, based on our own perception, neoliberal, I was holding in Europe, we want Greece to take steps to become fiscally self-powered, to return to markets, to be productive and competitive, with its own model. When we say 'integrated compromise', what do we mean? Should we also take a new loan, a new memorandum, to remain out of the market, dependent on the partners? Is that the honorable compromise? And the previous plan that you canceled was to go out until February 28th from the memorandum and take an important step towards the preventive credit line. Is it an honest compromise to extend Greece's stay on dependency, supervision, margin and respirator of our partners' loans? Because, unfortunately, this is the reality, budgetaryly dominating nowadays, it is the state that borrows well from the markets. So tell me, which of the two strategies, the break or the honest compromise, is there legalisation and internal correlation in the Greek Parliament? For no one! Note what has happened within less than two months. The seemingly powerful government that collects acceptance or even the tolerance of a large majority of public opinion in polling has suffered absolute strategic caging. He can't go forward or backwards. Neither in the break nor in the compromise. It has come alone because of mistakes and contradictions in a legalisation crisis. You do not have a social break order and you do not have a parliamentary majority supporting the turn of responsibility. There's nothing you can do either way. You are doomed to contradict, drag yourself out and escape. The game is just a responsibilities transfer game for a disaster that has become inevitable. It's the strangers' fault, it's the other people's fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u114	Describe the scenario of undermining now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u115	You are trying to formulate a public opinion of low expectations. We must be happy that the country has not been destroyed in the first 50 days, they say no papers of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u116	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u117	Does Mr. Venizelos have unlimited time, Mr. President? The work of undermining said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u118	The Chiefs were never interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u119	Gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u120	We have to be happy that we have money for salaries and pensions. But, ladies and gentlemen, you are playing with the flesh of the country and the credit event.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u121	That's what you played with!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Friend was eloquent before. He directly spoke of a credit event if the country is in a similar dilemma. It will prefer to fulfil its obligations towards citizens, not internal cessation of payments, at any price. This is the outward termination of payments. There's no more. Your entire army is the assessment that Europeans do not want Grexit. That's right. And because of the wider negative effects on the euro area and because of geopolitical conditions. I agree. But there are, and there are accidents, and there are irresponsible behaviours, and in any case, the non-exitation that is the right policy must not lead to deterioration and marginalisation within the euro so that it becomes dissimilar and burdensome for the majority of Greek society. The deadlock is therefore obvious, both drachmas and drachmas, extremely dangerous. Because listen to this: a country in a drachma, with all values down, will continue to owe euros. So what's the plan now? The flirt with the idea of elections or referendum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u123	You who went to English law, resign.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Varoufakis did this on a repeated occasion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u125	You signed the extension of English law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u126	But a referendum is the repetition of the Cannes, because no matter what you say, it's monetary in nature. The budgetary referendum reported by the Government representative, a referendum on budgetary measures, is a constitutional one. Electoral stays. The elections are a strong possibility. Elections that you obviously claim victory with a pure order. A clear mandate means elections of raw truth and historical dilemmas, not demagogic elections, client arts and ambiguous speech. Clear words. Is the Greek people voting for its exit, its destruction, its degradation or the country's European course? I have to tell you that such thoughts do not lead to extortion of others, but to self-determination. The problem is when these simple truths will be more widely understood. You see the polls. So I'm telling you that the time is not too late for them to be seen. I only hope that we can make it before we hit the deadlock to which, unfortunately, the country is running without brakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Nikos Voutsis, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor for a short intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u128	I will not deal at all with the advice we have heard before, as with the references to the famous Cannes Conference in which the previous speaker took part and played a leading role for the great adventures that his prolongation and the government, but also for the country, suffered. It's their thing. He might have looked inwards when he referred to the Cannes. We were self-sufficient witnesses of a destructive member and member - not personally, but as a representative of a party - of the previous government of the orchestrated situation which we have been subject to as a country by foreign factors and by factors and political forces of the interior, as we are witnessed in their indisputable speeches. I could justify - to justify - a tendency to justify, even after these bad election results, what happened from the previous coup d'état, by the previous government, and in the presence of Mr Venizelos himself. What I cannot justify, however, is that, at the same time, it is a clear, clear and clear, for thirty minutes now - but also from other speeches - a tendency towards full justice for both lenders and partners. Good and reasonable we can talk about ourselves and our policy. But, at the same time, when we are fully entitled, without a sign of criticism, to all those who are trying to trouble the country, there is a question marker. It would be interesting to hear from the Chief of a party that participates in a wider party, a wider European party, what its position is, for which he did not speak for 30 minutes. What is the position today in the international debate, in the international political correlation that is being formed in Europe? What's his position in relation to brothers parties? Concurrent party in Germany is a brother party of PASOK and Mr Venizelos. What does it do beyond this speech, which gives simple and green light to miserable interventions against our country? Does he have anything to do with it? Do you feel any obligation on the country? I repeat, not as a person, but as a political party, as a perception. They're very big questions. You ask us for rules and rules. Really? You who also know, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Finance, etc., that you've handled all these years, what are you talking about? Do you fully legalise the country's exclusion from pan-European programmes that are evolving? Why don't you say a word, so about the guys, so we all feel in here that we have a common point of contact in the criticism we're making? Our country - and only our country - is excluded from pan-European programmes such as that which are evolving, of the great quantitative expansion of the European Central Bank, completely punishable. And you come here to just, to rejoice, to applaud these actions. You also fully legalise unilateral actions against our country. Is it not a unilateral action - and we have mentioned it repeatedly - to stop liquidity being stopped towards our country - is it or is it not? - in relation to the amounts owed to our country which the European Central Bank and other banks have won from bond markets or the possibility of liquidity as the country had in all previous years, in addition to instalments? Repeat, beyond dosing. Why do you not refer to these matters at all? Are you absent? Are you silent? Sit down and welcome? How long do you think you're going to rejoice? You also referred to the debt issue. It really is to raise one's hands up. In this Chamber Mr Samaras last came under your pressure to say that debt is sustainable. As now we all remember it when we were in this Chamber. Mr Samaras, the Prime Minister, was also standing up to the lenders - to give simple, like you two and a half years have given to your every speech - that the debt was sustainable, that there is no problem and that we can now, five years later, which is bigger than before, pay it off. You've been saying that for two and a half years. No one else said it in this room. Last time the Prime Minister joined the end of last year. You are giving us a resignation today because we do not put the issue of debt, non-viable debt, the settlement and the management of debt on the agenda, because we say that in June there will be a great deal of agreement after the transitional agreement that has been reached - what we call the 'bridge' - on the radical impairment - by a majority, we say - of the nominal value, not just of the debt. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] We have put this as a target. We've put it all over fora. We are also discussing politically. It is being discussed throughout Europe. It's a policy now, and you know it. But be quiet! You should tell us here how from 8% of unemployment we have reached 27%, which you delivered, how one out of the two unemployed is also poor. It's in this bill we're talking about here. You should assume your responsibilities. While unemployment was not immediately and poverty or extreme poverty, we now have the phenomenon of structural unemployment, the unemployment of forty-five to fifty-five years, the continuing unemployment, which has broken the backbone of society. This is not restored - and you know it - because they can now take - and take - smaller children with greater qualifications. That is why you have to speak here, and that is why we need to speak here, instead of expecting that and how does the government and our people suffer anything and you may be able to deal with issues of other political priorities? Finally, I am sorry that, in a crisis of sincerity and cynicism - I would say - you said the new beat: 'The power of the man who has money in his hands'. You said it from the Step of the House. Really? Isn't that what the Greek people voted against? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Was that not the principle, on the basis of which we have these terrible and failed austerity policies across Europe and Greece? I'm sorry, but it's a lullaby manifesto. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In the end, there is indeed legalization for this government, for all its actions from now on. This government will be long-term, no matter how strange it may seem to you, no matter how much you want to talk about parentheses. Because this legitimacy is a legitimisation for proud, decent, social, progressive solution to the problem in the country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That legitimisation we've taken. The bills, one after the other, which implement the agreement of 20 February and the government's programming statements, will come, vote, get popular and social consensus and you will, unfortunately, stay in the fights of retardants. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u129	Please, Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u130	Has Mr. Venizelos asked for the floor? How long do you want the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u131	Did you take time for Mr. Voutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u132	There was no time for the Minister. Please don't put time on me now, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u133	I've put you five minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u134	Don't put time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u135	Where are you? The Central Committee of SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, I understand Mr Voutsi's irritation, because there is currently anguish. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like you to point out to the Members of your party, because the designations that are being launched and written in the Minutes are being heard and I am obliged to withdraw them to order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u138	Rescind them. There is no total party responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u139	Firstly, they must respect that the President of their party is speaking and, secondly, respect the parliamentary procedure. These descriptions are incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u140	Please, Madam President, you will not make such recommendations when I speak. What I do with my MPs is a party matter. If you have identified Members' anti-regulatory behaviour, report to them individually and do what is required under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u141	Please, I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u142	I shall then give the floor to Mr Kammenos on staff. Go on, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u143	So I come to Mr. Voutsi. I understand his passion and irritation, but I do not understand this arrogance of the winner. [[Noise in the Chamber]] There is anxiety because you have a great responsibility. Because now, whatever happens or will happen in the country, it concerns you collectively and individually. The easy and good times of opposition and demagogy have passed. Now it's all paid if he shows it. I'm telling you, to know that my only concern is the country's success, regardless of the government. That is why I have also said public and privately to Mr Tsipras that it would have been wise and effective to negotiate on the substance, gaining significant results in our relations with the partners, but maintaining the goal of leaving the memorandum and moving to the preventive credit line and not retreating miles back, staying in the memorandum and preparing Memorandum 3. This was done for purely films, for symbolic reasons, because you think changing words is a fundamental change. Unfortunately, however, it is not. You also need to know - you have referred with personal aggression and inadmissibility - that I have written a letter, which I did not make public, to the leaders of all European social and social democratic parties, asking to support the Greek Government and before the agreement of 20 February in Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u144	Notify her!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u145	Because our only incentive, Mr Voutsi, to take over the huge cost we have borne was the protection of our country and the national interest. If our motive was different, party, extravagant or personal, we would have sacrificed, humiliated and destroyed our homeland, but retaining our own party and election status. We didn't do it and we didn't do it for five years. And lessons of patriotism or negotiation I do not accept, because I have given the battle to the front line for six years and the country is standing! So you must also see to it that it is delivered up! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Hard negotiation means bringing results for the country. When you come and you will have received a loan in June under the terms of a loan that we received in February 2012, I will congratulate you. When you come to say, 'I have cut off even a euro from the public debt' - a euro, not 180 billion in net present value - I will congratulate you. Continuingly invoke the argument of the humanitarian crisis and the consequences of the memorandum. I repeat what I said: Have you understood what would happen in the country if 2010 were not the option, but the choice of the break and the uncomplicated bankruptcy? [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement is ringing.]] Who's the mighty? The mighty one's got the money. Are these our partners? Our partners are the subsidiary project to meet our cash requirements. Where do the States borrow from? Who evaluates states? Where are the states humiliated? On the markets. Do you think the people's vote is enough to convince the markets? It would be different in Argentina. It would be different in Venezuela. It would be different in Hungary. The markets know what they're saying today? That the Greek ten-year bond has yields of 10.5%, whereas the Irish 0.5%. This is the situation, unfortunately. The country which cannot gradually return to markets with satisfactory interest rates is a country without budgetary sovereignty. That's where the relationship between the state and the markets has arrived and you're talking to me about relationships with the partners? When, Mr. Voutsi, I pushed the troika out of my office at the Ministry of Finance on September 1, 2011, your party said that this has no prospect. [[Noise in the Chamber]] In less than forty days, however, we have taken the second major loan, the debt cut, the radical restructuring, the decisions by which you are forced to go and I hope you will go and raise these issues. You are now saying that I was putting the issue of debt sustainability here. And I heard Mr Tsipras also say in his speech in Paris that debt is not sustainable. Do you know what it means to the Greek Prime Minister or Minister for Finance that debt is not sustainable? It means that, in accordance with the Statute of the International Monetary Fund, the Fund's Board of Directors cannot disburse instalments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u146	The Fund itself says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u147	According to the Statute of the European Central Bank, the European Central Bank cannot finance the Greek banks. You do not, unfortunately, have an exact sense of what it means to say 'the debt is or is not sustainable' and what it means to the strategy, for a debt that I declare as sustainable, I am striving to improve it by making use of the previous 2012 commitments through parametric changes, which are a haircut in the final analysis, because everything is a haircut in net present value. You have no sense of the impact of your words. You are actually undermining this course of the country and prejudicing the rupture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u148	He's offended us for an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u149	I believe that this sitting, Mr. Friends' placement, Mr. Voutsi's position is a historicly critical meeting, which takes a dramatic turn. You think you're blackmailing? Do you think the conditions for a political solution are being formulated at the moment? We have all gone to give a political solution without technical conditions and we have not been able to do that. And you know why we couldn't do it? Because there are factors outside the international political system that affect correlations within Europe. These factors are also critical because the financial problem of the euro area as a whole is affected by markets. It is therefore very important to know that we are not talking alone here in Greece, but we are not talking alone with European political actors and partners, because they too are prisoners, which are formed on the world market and on the European market. And you obviously do not have a sense of the effects of what you say on the Greek banking system, on depository behaviour, on the stability of financial procedures in Greece. We now have the absolute need to reach agreement on the basis of common sense and truth, but you have not called for any understanding or exchange of views, but for any consensus or consensus. Do you currently play the krone - letter of the country's prospects in the context of what legalisation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Venizelos can speak twice a year both in his protology and in his denology? What's Mr. Venizelos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u151	The legality is tested daily and is concerned with this House. Do you think you can determine the destiny of the place with a 36% victory? Constantine Karamanlis did not do that with 54%, did not do it by Andreas Papandreou with 48%. And who gives you the chance to do it? Did we, who, in the June 2012 elections, gathered in favour of our strategy of 47%, summing up New Democracy, PASOK and DMAR, say that we have the opportunity to determine irrevocably and historically the nation's course? Didn't you find us? Didn't you go through with us? Didn't you question us from the start? Where does this confidence, arrogance and historical prefecture result from? Nowhere. We support the government internationally and intervene where we must, silently, effectively and effectively, something you have never done. When did the European Left support our own efforts? When did you intervene as a SYRIZA when we were struggling to project the red lines? Did Europe please us? Did he politically support us? No, of course not. We have fought hard with Europe, at least from the European elections to the parliamentary elections, and, yes, we have defeated elections, but we have had two fronts to deal with. One outside, in negotiating with Europeans, and an internal, lack of consensus. While we tell you: we are ready to support, consent, help, as long as we know what the framework is. As long as we know that the course is European. Just as long as we know that there are no manipulations, manipulations, proliferations, jokes. Comparing our position, our struggle with your convenience, which ends?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u152	Let's finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u153	Just now you understand what it means to negotiate, not with a primary surplus, not at a positive growth rate, not with strong banks, but with the 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012. Do you understand how unfair, impeccable, unscrupulous, all that you've been saying over the years? When we were really fighting hard and in connection with relationships that were completely negative and with undernourished internal front? Leave the arrogance, convenience, these statements, which you will have to explain at one time, because either you will call them back or you will apologize for the destruction of the country and we will come to form a real national plan and a national negotiation team.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u154	I would simply point out that you have spoken three times as much as you are entitled to and brought the Bureau into a very difficult position. The floor has been requested by the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u155	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u156	Mr Kammenos takes the lead, because he is also a party president.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u157	There is the House of Common Members!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u158	There is also the Rules of Procedure, which some older Members have built. We can change him if you want. But that's what the Rules of Procedure say. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u159	I have listened very carefully to the speech of the President of PASOK, who has retired. I would particularly like to ask him to stop the letters, because it seems that in his correspondence the result is the opposite of what he expects. With the exchange of letters, the result was that the entire Socialist group in the European Parliament had attacked Greece and the Greek Government. One says that 'we will take the measures of Cyprus'. His second group responds that "liquidity in Greece is over". And of course, Mr Schultz comes out and intervenes directly within the country, pointing to the government partners and pointing out who should govern this place in violation of any democratic principle. These are the letters that Mr Venizelos sends and the successes he has for the help of the country and the government! So it's better to stop writing and answering. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] To answer here in this Chamber: Who brought the humanitarian crisis? Whose policy has brought about a humanitarian crisis? The policy supported by Mr Venizelos and then by Mr Samaras. The policy of recession, internal devaluation, which has led to the poverty of the Greek people, the policy which, instead of helping to reduce the deficit, has helped to escape the deficit. The policy that, instead of helping to reduce debt, tripled and quadrupled the debt. The policy which led to unemployment of 70% of the new Greeks. The policy that closed down business. The policy that impoverished labour rights. The policy that has broken down wages and pensions. The policy decided by the Greek people in the last elections to change. And this policy will be changed, whether they like it or not, because this is where we are dealing with a sovereign state! [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] Mr. Venizelos told us that the country was standing. The country was held up by Prime Minister's orders to the ministers to be 'in four'. This government will negotiate upright, this government will negotiate with the people's mandate and serve the national sovereignty of the country. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] This government will not execute orders other than the orders given by the Greek people and the orders given by the Greek people are quite clear, it is the change of this policy. I heard Mr. Venizelo say he's the strong one with the money. No, Mr. Venizelo, he's not a strong man with the money. It is strong enough that Greece has the right to do so. Those who violated international conventions, those who brought against Greece differently than in other countries are the ones who chose Greece as a detonator in Europe, are the ones who put the support mechanism, third-party mechanisms, such as the International Monetary Fund, those that stopped lending the country with EURIBOR and discovered mechanisms that supported the country and loaned it seven and eight times more than the legal interest rate, the loan sharks. So strong, we are in this government and what we are demanding is the application of the treaties of European law. It is strong that they do not hand over the national sovereignty of the country. Powerful are those who protect the people on the basis of international conventions and the Constitution. Powerful are not those who grant articles of the Constitution for the benefit of those who give the orders. This government is strong, because it has the support of the Greek people, it has the support of 80% of the Greek people and with this 80% of the Greek people we are talking about at the moment. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] We are the smallest partners in this government and will support it to the end. We may have political differences, but this government has shown that it is negotiating upright, exerting the orders it receives from the Greek people and operating for the benefit of the Greek people alone. You told us about a haircut. What haircut has been made in public debt, Mr. Venizelo and Mr. Samaras? If the debt got bored, how could it be more than double after the haircut than before? Do you know who you ran? You only got tired of Greece, the insurance funds, the hospitals, the universities. You've dissolved the country's social fabric. You got tired of Greece knowing that the bonds would get bored and you acted through the Bank of Greece in order not to convert the funds' reserves into government bonds, which were not bored, but into bonds that were bored. Which lender got bored? When did he get tired? And why, after he got bored and was your policy a success, is the debt far greater now than before? What policy has you achieved when in all areas the numbers show that we are going towards the disaster? How can you demand that we continue with this policy, when this policy, even those who imposed it, turns out to be a failure? Finally, I want to make it clear that what is being imposed at the moment is, by voting on these bills, the whole of the Greek and Greek Members of Parliament to prove that we are determined as a nation to protect our people on the basis of legality, proving that we are just one sovereign state, which receives no orders from anyone but the people who gave this order on 25 January. I invite you at least for the first time to ignore the orders given by the lenders! [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] Ignore the orders given by those who wrongly led the people to impoverishment. Let us all appear together as a fist, like a united nation, which seeks his rightfulness. It calls for what emerges from the international treaties. It calls for equal treatment in a Europe of equal countries, in a Europe which respects the national sovereignty of each country and respects both the people's mandate and democracy. In this country the governments are elected by the citizens and they are not imposed by the bosses of each party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u160	The speech has been made by the Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Theocharis and by the PASOK Parliamentary Representative Mr Gregorakos. Mr. Gregoraco, you are not a parliamentary representative. It's Mr. Koutsukos. Is Mr. Koutsoukos asking why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u162	All right, they've noted Mr. Gregoraco. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Old Faliro High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Theochari, how long do you want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u163	Wait a minute. It won't take long.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u164	I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u165	We recognise that your intention is to upgrade Parliament's role. That is why you have requested and made a great effort by the government to see the ministers present in the procedures, either parliamentary control or draft legislation. But what we are watching is ultimately downgrading the role of the Member, since we have continuous speeches and speeches. Lately, Mr Voutsi, perhaps because he has spoken on several occasions, the Vice-President, who was presided over at the time, gave him the floor without any time at all. The President of the PASOK also spoke and rightly spoke again regardless of the time. We see that we have already exceeded 13.00 hours, when we said that this procedure would have ended without many Members having had enough time to speak. They were registered yesterday by eighty-six Members and we proceed slowly. This is not a process in which MPs are the background for the ministers and leaders of the parties to speak only. Please, because in the end you will be forced to give a minimum of time - one and two minutes - to every Member, if you want everyone to speak - or worse will be cut off by Members and will not be able to speak - to find a procedure in which Members can express their views better and with sufficient time. We are not just here as a herd to vote on bills. We are here to consult, to say the Greek people's opinion and to try to co-formulate and finally to vote for the bills. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u166	Madam President, I would like the floor for a minute for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Voutsi, I'll give you the floor right away. I would just like to remind you, Mr Theochari, that you have been speaking for a long time. You have this right, of course, as a parliamentary representative. You've spoken for thirteen minutes in your prototype before. I would also like to inform you, because you are a new Member and perhaps from your previous government - hierarchical position - that today at the meeting on this bill, which is the first of this period, they have already spoken thirty Members, and in the respective first bill of the previous period they spoke in total thirteen Members. I say this so that we all have a sense of what kind of process it is being observed and what it means. Put the "twelfth in total" with "already thirty" to see whether or not the Members are given space. Mr. Voutsis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u168	No, no. For a minute, I would just like to say that I did not speak. In other words, I have given up yesterday's speech and just made these two speeches yesterday, for far less than eighteen minutes that I could speak from a step forward to defend the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u169	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u170	Oh, no. I'm trying to keep...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u172	Madam President, how much time do I deserve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u173	How much do you want? The President of your Party has spoken and therefore you are entitled to six minutes, with tolerance, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, most of the SYRIZA majority Members will be able to judge how reliable it is for what the Minister of National Defence says, when he forgets - or rather is on a new government line, to delete the responsibilities of those who abused the country - when he forgets that he has participated in a government in the period 2004-2009 which doubled the debt and has developed the deficit to the unprecedented level of 36 billion. Mr. Kammenos participated in this government. Self-criticism has not done so and sacrifices the ideological and political differences it has with the Left Party on all issues, the issues of the Church, the issues of citizenship, the issues of immigration with a single objective, to participate in the government. Why is that? For the debt cut, the disgraceful and rewarding. Where is the government's policy of disgraceful and burdensome debt? Are they possible in what the Eurogroup decided on 20 February, where, according to the written terms, the Greek Government recognises its obligations, or is it in what the President of Parliament does, in our view, violating the concept of the Rules of Procedure, by setting up a Committee on Accountancy, to tell us what is the burdensome and shameful debt that we are going to write off? Ladies and gentlemen, such misgivings, misgivings of the press that we will make Greece Cougie at this critical moment do not help the difficult conditions of negotiation. Mr Venizelos reiterated once again, by closing his speech, that the government has so far not asked for our contribution and we have made it very simple from the very beginning. We said we were supporting the government in the negotiation and I wish it would bring better results. The government had the opportunity from 28 months, which ended the memorandum, to negotiate on the preventive credit line, namely from the exit from the memorandum, and today to discuss debt parameters that would lead us to a reduction in the obligation for a high primary surplus, so we could have an excess of resources for growth and social policy. With the contradictory policy pursued by the government in the logic of the 'I do not pay' movement, the political instability of November and December, the revenues have collapsed - the official figures show it - and so today we are not talking about a primary surplus, but deficits, unfortunately. So we support the government in negotiating on a line, the one given by the Greek people in its vote and the one seen in all polls, to further improve the conditions for the euro. In a political rhetoric and a war climate, neither do we support the government nor the majority of the Greek people, as is apparent from the polls. This is the deadlock that Mr Venizelos has analysed. You can't go back either. You're locked up. Finally, I will say that we will also vote for this bill and the other, because we do not obey it. We have our own policy and we were in negotiations with the troika when it was necessary. In this way you can go and say that the Greek Parliament supports the government, but on the line of residence within Europe and on the line of improving conditions, but on the basis of a strategic framework and not on more pertinent terms. Madam President, I shall end with this, as the Minister for Parade spoke beforehand. Because, in any case, I am over sixty, I remember the time of high inflation, the inflation represented by cartoons as giants, then we had 22% -26% inflation and the cartoons were commanded by the Minister of National Defence in Mirage to destroy inflation. If this policy expresses the government, please, Mr Kammenos. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u175	The President has asked for the floor, Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a very interesting day, because it may be the first time, after more than four years, during which a draft law that has not been translated is being discussed and passed in the Greek Parliament, but was written here. [[Applause]] In this sense, it is noteworthy that this draft law, which was not translated by e-mail, was written in the Greek language, is likely to be passed by a large majority. It is also noteworthy that a bill satisfying the social needs of many, not a few, is being passed. We are voting on a draft law that gives those who have more than all of us the need to stand by them. It is the first bill after five years that it does not take from the citizens, it does not hit labour and social rights, but instead it comes to stand as a brother and a fellow in the weakest social strata. The government is beginning to implement what it committed itself to its programme statements and, of course, some are still unable to realise. We are committed to being the government that will implement its programme and its announcements. We were bound, if necessary, even to bleed, so that our people could stop bleeding another. Today, then, we are making a start. We continue on Thursday and Friday with the hundred-dollar bill, which will give our fellow citizens breath, but at the same time will also enable them to fill the public funds and the insurance funds. We continue with the reconstruction of the public, the relaunch of the economy, ERT and justice. All these bills will be written here, because we will not continue this tactic, to give technocrats to write our own bills. In short, we are not doing back to what we have announced and, above all, to what we consider necessary for society and the economy to breathe. Of course, we are open to proposals, to dialogue, to counter-proposals from everywhere, to the country and outside. We're open to suggestions. However, the people's mandate was clear and we have a duty to implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, what did the Greek people ask us to do with this mandate on the 25th of January? One thing asked us: to put an end to the memorial and austerity, to have a process of recovering the dignity of the Greek people. And of course he has asked us to finally become a real, substantial, tough negotiation with the European partners. That's the order we received, we're serving her. We knew very well from the outset that the road to the implementation of this mandate was from the outset. We were well aware of the difficulties that we will find before us, even this economic suffocation operation and pressure, in order to retreat from our commitments to the Greek people and to be forced to fall into the implementation of a policy which, quite simply, would be the continuation of the policies of the previous government. We knew all this. Now, however, our partners are also starting to know us very well. If some people at the bottom of their minds had that we would have been followed up with some flexibility - as they like the term - of the previous governments, we have certainly disappointed them. We came to this negotiation without secret diplomacy, without personal diplomacy. We didn't hide anything from the Greek people. There was absolute transparency in everything. We did not ask for or ask for special treatment. We have asked for and demanding equal treatment. To the great surprise of many in Greece, neither were we isolated nor allies. That's exactly how we got to the result of February 20th. We've internationalized the problem. We have laid the foundations for a mutually beneficial solution. For the first time, Europe has admitted that there is an unprecedented humanitarian crisis in Europe, which was not created by accident, but because of the fact that an economic programme has been imposed on Greece in recent years, which has failed miserably. This admission is extremely important, you know. As extremely important and honest - I have to say - it is the effort of the President of the Commission, Mrs Juncker, as he expressed it to me at our private meeting last Friday in Brussels, to find sufficient funds from current European Union programmes to heal these wounds. For the first time, Europe has also begun to become accustomed to the idea that there can be governments in the European framework that run counter to neoliberal dogmatism, which has been dominated in recent years, both centre-rights and so-called social-democratic governments. At the Eurogroup on the 20th of February we reached an agreement under the well-known suffocating pressure of time and thus took the first step towards a negotiation, which, of course, does not end here, but we know it will last long and we know it will be tough. But what did we do there? We have achieved a bridge programme, which includes neither an austerity measure nor an internal devaluation measure. We canceled the fifth evaluation of the previous program, the notorious mail Hardouveli, I remind you. We thus put an end to this extra-institutional structure of the troika, which was used to coming into the country and entering the ministries and downloading the files, interrogating and degrading ministers. There were phenomena that were made either in Greece or in Paris, such as sitting in the line elected ministers of the Greek government and waiting until 2: 00' in the morning for them to be interviewed by technocrats. Such phenomena will not be tolerated and will not happen again either here or abroad!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u177	Let's report when it happened and who it was!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u178	You know when it happened, as they know where it happened!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u179	It never happened!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u180	You know and they know when and when it happened to who! Because from now on there is a political negotiation. Elected with those elected and technocrats! Of course, what we have achieved was that there should be no cut in wages and pensions, no new redundancies and that there should be a complete separation of the loan contract from the Memorandum. Thus, for the first time, our country has had the opportunity to design and implement the reforms proposed by itself, not to implement demands and prerequisites imposed by itself. We also achieved a reduction in the extra-real surpluses required by the lenders and which the previous government had accepted without the actual reservation. These are surpluses which, if you like, are the other side of the coin, austerity, the other name of austerity. These surpluses, the obligation to extra-real surpluses, have been the austerity that has afflicted the country in recent years. Following the agreement of 20 February, the government submitted its own reform plan to the Eurogroup and now everyone can compare our proposals to the ones contained in the famous e-mail of the Samara government. These developments have made it understandable to everyone that the Greek Government is not prepared to continue on the path of previous governments, it is not willing to accept orders from technocrats and legislate on e-mails from technical groups. It is obvious, however, that some have not been at all satisfied by this agreement and abroad, but also within the country. Unfortunately, in the interior of the country there are some who are more troika than troikas and in constant contact with the so-called 'troikas'. [[Applause]] They have not been at all satisfied and have, of course, tried from the start, since the next day, to try to undermine the agreement. Some also attempted to degrade government officials. Others attempted to continue the same trophy - boring now - of extortion and threats. Some, in fact, of the technocrats, who have not been able to realize or cannot realise that things have changed in Greece, are trying to terrorize with ultimatum. We answer them not by words, but by actions. Many words are poverty. We respond to them today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in the House, raising a wall of sovereignty and dignity. [[Applause]] We are responding to them by voting today in the House to address the humanitarian crisis bill, responding to them by remaining faithful to the implementation of the agreements on 20 February. And if you want, we answer them with absolute coolness, but also with determination. I am sure, however, that this behaviour of some of our partners - not all of them, of course, I would like to be quite clear - and in particular this behaviour of some of the technocrats of various technical scales, all it achieves in the final analysis is to confirm the arguments of the Greek side. All it manages is to expose Europe. What else can anyone say about people who have the nerve to write on paper and send an email that dealing with the humanitarian crisis in Greece is a unilateral action, incompatible with the decisions of the European institutions? What else can one say to those who, perhaps used to what they did until yesterday, are asking us to freeze bills so that they continue in Greece to freeze thousands of households who live without power? [[Applause]] Here, if you want, it's a question. I obviously do not address it to the Greek Parliament, but I address it to the European institutions. I address it to Europe's political leadership, but also to each and every individual European citizen: this Europe we have seen? Are we building this Europe? The Europe that, with its choices, creates a humanitarian crisis in a people, admits that it has done so and then sees itself as a unilateral action to deal with this humanitarian crisis? What kind of Europe is this and who expresses such a Europe? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes after five years of social and economic destruction to take steps to ensure basic social needs - housing, feeding, energy - just as described in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In the name of what European agreement, what treaty or what superpower and from where do some people have the courage to talk about unilateral energy and some people snatching it from these benches too? If they do just to scare us, the answer is simple: they don't scare us and throw us off. Fifty days now we have received the same and the same threats. But threats that continue to prove empty content when they are launched, all they do is deceive those who distribute them. But if they do, because they believe that Europe can work so, by violating every sense of democracy, every concept of sovereignty and every sense of solidarity, then the thing is changing. We're not going to leave that like this. Not only to defend the interests of Greece, but to defend the character and perspective of Europe itself. We will take this to the summit, both in the European Parliament and in the European Commission. We will take it to all possible institutional levels of the European Union. Because the European Union is not the property of the technocrats. It has institutions and rules, which are controlled by the people of Europe. In these institutions, there are no prosecutors and accused persons. There are no owners and tenants. We are all equal partners with equal rights and obligations. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government is determined to stick to the agreement of February 20. But the same is true of our partners. We know that we have a tough negotiation, which has nothing to do with political personal behaviour, and I would even say with the national strategies of the states. In fact it is about conflicting different political strategies for Europe. It's a conflict of financial interests, it's a conflict of political, social, classic, if you want. Greece has become an economic animal for five years. Now some people want to become a political animal in order to stop the political change that comes to other European countries in order for the neoliberal model of austerity to continue to apply throughout Europe, because some of them earn - the people are suffering, but some are gaining - and, of course, to build a European society without rights, without insurance, without social control. But they won't make it. The political change, launched by the elections on 25 January in Greece, comes as a strong river in Europe, Spain, Ireland and elsewhere. This political change cannot be stopped, because it has, as the main cause of its birth, great social injustice, great inequalities, the need for peoples to breathe. No one will be able to stop this mortar river. Greece of monuments, austerity is already in the past. There are many who want to undermine the negotiation - they will not succeed - but Europe will also lead to a path of democracy and solidarity. And that's gonna be real very soon. The Europe of authoritarianism, the Europe of punishment, the Europe of declining democracy will also be in the near future if we succeed - and I think we will succeed - in winning this battle. I was saying there are a lot of people who want to undermine the negotiation, perhaps because they can't deal with it. They will fail because, whatever they do, one thing cannot: they cannot undermine the relationship of confidence that has been created between the Greek people and the new government. Let us take this seriously into account and stop unilateral actions, respecting the agreement they signed. The new Greek Government has submitted to the European partners a detailed list of reforms to combat tax evasion, corruption and conflict, to address the humanitarian crisis, to operational reconstruction, to eliminate bureaucracy in the public. These reforms are real reforms. They are necessary in order for the country to overcome chronic diseases, in order to strengthen social justice, to overturn this image of shame, our country is, unfortunately, the first in the index of social poverty and last in the index of social justice in Europe. But I have never heard any of those people who have been cutting over the years talking about these negative prototypes and actual reforms that will contradict them. These changes that we want to promote are on the opposite side of memorandum measures of harsh austerity and measures of deregulation of labour relations and of exposing the social state, very simply because the memorandum was not reform, as it has been presented. It was a social and economic breakdown. I would like to challenge, in the good sense, of course, all those who are being cut for reform, to tell us about all these years in the Memorandum that it has been done and succeeded. Is the cuts, redundancies and market deregulation a reform? No, ladies and gentlemen, these are not reforms. It's pure revenge. Tell me about it, when did the troika in the previous years in Greece hit the table, to say that if this administrative reform or tax justice reform do not go ahead, will the dose not be disbursed? When? Never! Continuously the threat and extortion to prevent the dose being given was if redundancies, wage cuts and pensions do not go ahead. They are hypocritical, therefore, all who are allegedly being cut off for reforms. Because it has never gone through a structured, organised reform plan in the country. So let the pretexts be stopped. Last week I was in Paris at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, guest of Mr Guria. I spoke to the House of Representatives. We had the opportunity for four hours to have a special debate on the necessary reforms that the country needs and finally to uncover that this infamous toolbox had nothing to do with the OECD, but it was an invention of the Greek Government itself that, intercepting the OECD seal to pass on regulations that specifically favoured economic interests in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u181	Are you going to take us to court then, if you say we intercepted her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u182	It was Mr Hatzidakis' toolbox and not the OECD toolbox.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u183	Leave it now! That's a mock!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u184	I understand the concern, but let me finish. Last week, then, in the OECD, we agreed on a broad framework of reforms for the recovery of social justice, the hit on corruption and interlocutory, which the previous governments of course never attempted. Why? Because they were bound by strong economic interests. Reforms that the country now has a unique opportunity to promote. Why? Because it has a government that is not bound by economic interests and has the great majority of the Greek people to support it. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Reforms, therefore, with a positive social and budgetary signal. We are ready to implement them and we will implement them. Not because some people are asking for them, but because we want to implement them, as we will implement the February 20 agreement. If some people want to ignore the 20th February agreement, if some think that the elections do not change anything, that the countries on the programme do not need to have elections, they do not need the government headquarters to have elected but technocrats, if some people are dreaming that Greece will return, despite the clear popular mandate, at the time of the memorandum, if some insist that they do not respect their institutional role in Europe, they should keep these threats to where they are going. Not in this government, especially not in this people! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We, ladies and gentlemen, are committed to serving and defending the dignity and law of an entire people who have suffered all these years. We are struggling to defend the future and the next generations. And that is what we will do. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, to whomever wing you belong, to do that today too, by voting in favour of the first bill of the Government of Social Rescue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that Our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from Kabani Kilkis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will start the roll-call vote procedure, which was set for 12 noon, transferred for 13 noon and already 14 noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u186	No, Madam President, we are not interrupting. The Members of Parliament have not yet spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u187	No, Madam President. We haven't talked yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u188	They'll talk right after. The meeting will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u189	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u190	Let me inform you that a request has been made for a roll-call vote by seventeen Members of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group at the beginning of the bill, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u191	However, I must also inform you that, in the President's judgement - in accordance with Rule 72(1), point 3 - a roll-call vote must be taken. The list will be read in advance and then - and in any case - we will vote in roll-call.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u192	I request the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u193	On a point of order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u194	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of Members of the Golden Dawn to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Nikolaos Michaloliacos. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Rabbit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u195	You are not a dictator, Madam President. Understood!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u196	You discontinue reading the directory, Mr. Mitsotakis, without your right to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u197	Yes, I interrupt it because I have asked for the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u198	Did you come back from the permission that this House gave you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u199	Sure, I'm back. You see me here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u200	And you think you should interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u201	Don't be irony, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Christos Pappas. Here you go. Mr. Elias Cassidy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u203	Do not iron and stand at the height of the circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u204	Mr. George Germenis. Here you go. Mr. Artemis Matthaopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Michael Arvanitis. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Michos. Here you go. Mrs. Despina Sveroni-Hondronasius. Here. Mr. Fotius Gran. Here you go. Mr. Antonio Gregos. Here you go. Mrs. Helen Zaroulia. Here. Mr. Constantine Barbarousis. Here you go. Mr. George Galeos. Here you go. Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas. Here you go. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the Golden Dawn. In any case, however, the President may consider it necessary to hold a roll-call vote and, on the basis of what has been said, a roll-call vote is necessary and we shall be adjourned for 10 (10) minutes, as required by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u205	How do you judge that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u206	There is no such thing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u207	You must be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u208	That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u209	In ten minutes we will come back with the reading of the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u210	These are inadmissible things!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u211	What are these things? It's a disgrace to you. Madam President, vote on your own!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Voutsi, what are you doing about this? It's a disgrace to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u213	Aren't you embarrassed? You humiliated this Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u214	Where does the vote turn out to be taking place?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u215	What are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u216	As a matter of fact, you're talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u217	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u218	Vote on your own!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u219	What are you doing for them, Mr. Voutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u220	No listing has been completed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u221	Madam President, the New Democracy considers the process to be offensive and unacceptable, and that is why it is leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u222	I'll say it and I want it to be recorded in the Minutes. The President replaces the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. I would like to inform you that Rule 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure gives the President of Parliament the right to hold a roll-call vote in any event if he considers it necessary. As President of Parliament, given that it is very important that what was reflected in the debate, namely the majority with which this bill was based, should be reflected in a record, I felt that roll-call voting is necessary. On the other hand, because I can see that some people are trying to distort this crisis, to give it another content and, possibly, to save reasons for not voting, I believe that roll-call voting is not necessary. We can vote in the traditional way too. [[Applause]] I therefore call on the Members who have left to come to the next quarter to vote in good time rather than by roll-call vote and to show that the support for the draft law that has been expressed is not in words, because you realise that the wishes for success of the country and the government, which brings this bill, must also be transformed into parliamentary support. So the next five minutes will be a normal vote, not a roll-call vote, and then we will be taking the debate on the next item at the next sitting. The salvaged reasons for leaving are called upon to come back and cast their votes and their opinions and to assume its responsibility. We are therefore adjourned for five (5') minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity: 'Provisions for direct measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and the Governmental Institutions and other provisions', and we are voting in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u225	Madam President, the New Democracy has not spoken!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u226	Madam President, I ask for the floor on a point of order!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u227	Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u228	We are asking for the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u229	You say "OH", Mr. Mitsotakis? Who do they vote against? Do you vote against or do you vote 'NAI'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u230	Madam President, I am a parliamentary representative and have not spoken. I request the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u231	There is no right to a procedure and you have no reason to speak. We have a vote. What are you voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u232	Feeling New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u233	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u234	Don't you want to vote, Mr. Brutsi? How do you want me to record the vote of the New Democracy, 'WAY', 'WAY' or 'WAY'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u235	Why don't you let us talk? You said you'd give us the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u236	What are the New Democracy Members voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u237	Give us the floor on a point of order!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u238	Do you deny the vote? We are in the process of voting! SYRIZA MPs said "NEI", ANEL MPs said "NEI". What do the MPs of the Officer's Response say? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Will you vote? We are in the process of voting. What are PASOK Members voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u239	That is impossible, Madam President. There's no way the Civic Opposition won't speak! You said it ten minutes ago. You said that the Minister would speak and then give the floor to the parliamentary representative. We expect our parliamentary representative to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u240	The PASOK MPs will vote? I give you the chance, because you don't want to... [[Noise in the Chamber]] The Golden Dawn MPs what do they vote for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u241	‘THE’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u242	They shall vote ‘THE’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u243	Madam President, the trick is not going through!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u244	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u245	What are the JRC Members voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u246	‘PARTON’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u247	They shall vote for ‘APPROVAL’. Is there a parliamentary group that wants to record a vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u248	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u249	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity: "Agreements on direct measures to address the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and Governmental Institutions and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S1-commons.u250	With the agreement of the House at 14.00 noon, the sitting is closed for Wednesday, 18 March 2015, at 14.05, on the subject of the legislative work of this House.
