ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Xanna, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u2	Reference to the Minister of Health by MP Magnesia Mikopoulou on the subject: 'Movement of the only one in the Northern Sporades of the ESS in Volos Hospital'. MEP Magnesia Alexandros Meikopoulou sends a letter from the only child of the ESS to the entire group of Northern Sporades - Skopelos, Skiathos, Alonissos - which calls for the continuation of his regular movements from the Centre for the Health of Skiathos, where he serves, to the General Prefecture Hospital of Volos. Report by Mr Ephremidis, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission of the European Communities to the Council (COM(86) 436 final — Doc. Meekopoulos Alexandros, Demetrius Konstantinos, Papanaatsios Ekaterini and Ballis for the Minister of Economy, Shipping and Tourism, on the subject: "Protest on the sending of statements of debt by the CRL by judicial caretakers of the EBRD - CSMEDE". Since today, during a period of severe economic recession, engineers are the first to have come into a bad economic situation and because they have a question of equal treatment for the members of the TEC as a whole, as the members of the Magnesia TEC have invoked in the attached memorandum, please beg the Minister to consider their request for clarification of the directives and the definition of specific and clear criteria of how individual notifications should be sent to debtors in the EBRD - TSME. Report by Mr Michaelidis to the Minister for Health on the letter from the provincial association of retired seafarers NAT and in active seafarers, on the subject of "Healthcare questions for seafarers in Chios, concerning the staffing of the House of Chios with a doctor for the prescription of medicines". Report by Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion, to which he sends the letter of the Association of Parents and Princess of the 1st Association of Special Education of Magnesia, which relates to the creation of a public IK Special Education in Volos and sets out a number of substantiated proposals for its effective operation. Member of Parliament, Mr Constantine Dermitzakis, reporting to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the protest against unfair transfers to Naples prisons. Mr. Dermitzakis presents the letter of the Association of Officials of the Court of Justice of Neapolitan Crete as a reference. Report by Congressman Heraklion Eleftherios Auggenakis to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the memorandum from the Panhellenic Federation of Five Years of Obligation and Contracting Firefighters, which refers to proposals for the recovery of five-year obligation fire extinguishers and contracted fire extinguishers. Report by Christos Boukokorous to the Minister for Labour and Social Security, on the notification of EBRD debts by a judge-in-law. The specific text of the Ministerial Decision is unclear and does not specify in a certain way the circumstances which it is deemed necessary for service to be served by a judicial curator. This issue should be addressed with an interpretative circular on the part of the Ministry, which clarifys the minimum and extreme cases in which the debtor's disgrace rather than the objective weakness and where the service is exceptionally served by a judicial curator. Report by MP Magnesia Christos Boukorous to the Minister for Health, on the staff of the Pediatric Clinic Hospital of Volos. Report by Mr Spyridon Dannelis to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the evaluation of programmes by the organizations of olive-growing organizations of Crete. The memorandum of the Agricultural Cooperative Krissas of Lassithi, on the problems that arise in the implementation of the programmes of producer organisations in the olive oil and table olive sector, known as OEM organisations, is being forwarded. Report by Mr Ephremidis, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission of the European Communities to the Council (COM(86) 436 final — Doc. Christos Katsotis, Diamonds Manolakou and Manolis Synthakis, with Mr. Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, in which the memorandum of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Creative Employment Centres for Children is submitted, on the financing and operation of the municipal social structures of the CSR and CSR - AE, asking them to acquire a permanent and stable character, to operate through OTAs, subject to their social services with permanent staff and a guarantee of the State itself for their uninterrupted funding. Report by Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the problem of debtors in the region of northern Greece by adjusting the percentages. More specifically, these companies in northern Greece, while self-evidently joining for the remainder of their debt in adjusting the percentage of doses, when applying n. In this case, the following paradoxical and non-legal was observed: In the amount of their debts the surcharges of the years during which they complied with their regulation and which had been frozen by subjecting them to the provisional arrangement of the previous law, thus increasing the amount they were asked to regulate. Report by Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Finance, on overturns and commitments. The Office of the Court of Auditors of Heraklion shall not hold any financial payment orders issued for expenditure which had been committed in the financial year 2014 and which were not paid, due to the fact that those commitments were not overturned and their posted in the ‘Guarantee’ until 31/12/2014, on the basis of the relevant document of the General Accounting Office of the State. Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Sport and to the Minister of State, on the Panhellenic Association of Geographical and Business Professionals of the country, which denounces the HQ on the unacceptable and abusive terms of the call for expressions of interest in the procurement of land reconstruction works. Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of State on the problems of obtaining a digital signal for regional channels in the PZ6 region. Report by SYRIZA Congressmans Christos Katsavria, Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, Zenna, Hussein Zaybec, Aihan Kara Yusuf, Theophani Kureb, Alexandros Meikopoulou, Nicholas Michalaki, Ioannis Michelogannakis, Gerasios Balaoura, Athanasios Papadopoulos, Theodoros Parastatides, Dimitrios Rizzou, Constantine Selca, Athanasios Skouma, Elisabet Skoufa, Ioannis Stathia, Nikolaos Srmalenios, Heleni Sotiriou, Sunday Tentonidou and Alexandras Chanakakas to the Minister of Producemental Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy, on 'Authorities for Farms'. The letter of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Farmers' Associations is provided as a reference: “The federation is currently requesting a reasonable extension of the deadline for submitting a dossier by farmers for issuing a water usage licence, which expires on 30-4-2015. As the institutional framework is complex, many farmers have not gathered the necessary documents and are threatened with fines.’ Reference by Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Request for a Association of Educational Units for Magnesia, Rigas VELESTINLIS', on the problems faced by primary education in Magnesia'. Reference by Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the abolition of the Land Office of Magnesia with the n.e.c. 111. A Letter from the Regional Department of Magnesia of the TEI, which protests about the change in the structure of the Public Property Services and the substantial abolition of the Land Services through their degradation to Private Offices of Public Property by Prefecture, which fall under the Directorates of the Public Property of the Regions, since 29 October 2014, which was implemented in the B.C. number 111. Report by Mr Ioannis Michelovannakis to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the establishment and operation of the Directorate for Primary Education in Messara. Letter from the Association of Educational Primary Education of Messaras "The FASITOS" on the subject: "Creation and operation of the Department of Primary Education in Messara". Report by Mr Eleftherios Augnakis to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religion, on the letter of the Association of Educational Primary Education in Messaras, which he attaches to the proposal for the establishment and operation of the Department of Primary Education in Messara. The abolition of the 4th Office in Moires has caused a disruption in labour relations and, more generally, in the lives of teachers serving in Messara, since they are forced to move to Heraklion - we are talking about distances of more than a hundred kilometres, with a long road network, on issues relating to their service changes and needs. Report by Mr Panagiotis (South) Mitaraki to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs and to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the subject: "Marching Mathematics House of Minussa". Calls for state assistance for the financial gap faced by the Model Mathematical Household of Oinoussa. Report by Mr Constantine Tasoula to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. It is submitted as a document of the Association of Police Officers of Ioannina on the reduction of organic positions in the Law of Ioannina. Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Education, Culture and Religious Affairs: "Please ask for your placement on the letter of the Pan-Athens Pan-Atlantic Group, on the draft law 'Enough measures to deal with violence in sport and other provisions', in which the request of the above for specific additions and amendments is made. Report by Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the establishment and operation of the Directorate of Primary Education in Messara: "It is for the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs to look again at the issue more seriously, to include in the new draft law on education in each major county, depending on the particular educational needs and the planning of schools, two Directorates of Education. In particular, it is necessary in the Heraklion Prefecture to establish a second Education Department in Messara, due to the wide spread of school units and particular circumstances.’ Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of State and the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Absolutely, the administration of the Bank of Greece on the control of credit institutions". It concerns the publication of a newspaper on evidence of the correctness or not of the method of managing banks' funds in loans. Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Leave of the Association of Military Regions of Central Macedonia to restore the co-existence of coupled military forces". Report by Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. Letter from the Pan-Hellenic Otto Workers' Union on the recognition of a service to Otto undertakings. Reference by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of State and to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Forensic disclosure and invitation of the Anonymity Company under the name "KATHMERICA EVENTS ADVANTAGE" in relation to a syndicate bond loan, which the latter concluded with a group of banks. Report by Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Ministers of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Labour and Social Solidarity, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the open letter from the ESDP, on the absolute social necessity to start operating all centres for creative employment of disabled children (CDEs - ASE) and daily care centres for elderly people (KIFI) in September. Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the letter from the Association of Larissa, on his request for an extension of PPC's reduced tariff for luxuries until the end of the status of a protected member from all the children of the family. Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy. A letter from the Federation of Corinthian Gulf Organisations "OLKYON" on the construction of fishing shelters in the Corinthian Gulf is being promoted. Reference by Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Ministers of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction and Social Solidarity: The Pan-Hellenic Association of Workers at the Centres for the Creative Employment of Children and Children AEEE invites the Government and the CEDE to review the proposals, which are on four main lines: permanent structures in social services of OTAs, stable funding based on the actual operational needs of the municipalities, permanent staff with stable jobs, cover all the jobs eligible for the structures with socio-economic criteria. Report by Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion, on the Cretan students' requests: equal treatment of students in Crete, the immediate launch of the self-reliance of the Cretan University of Crete, the safeguarding and clarification of the professional rights of students in the EAP, the reduction of tuition fees, the provision of academic identity equivalent to that of the remaining HEIs and TEIs in the country and the creation of postgraduate curriculum programs in the Region of Crete. Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. A letter from the Panhellenic Federation of Fifteen Years of Obligation and Contracting Fire extinguishers is being promoted, on the subject of its call to recruit the successors of the competition by Mr. Article 15 of Regulation (EEC) No 3839/2011, as due. Report by Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the evaluation of the programmes of the olive-growing operators of Crete. Pending the adoption of a relevant Ministerial Decision approving our programmes, we have been informed by a report that there have been extra-institutional interventions to reduce the funding of our programmes in order to benefit from ODAs from other parts of the country. In the belief that the budgets of the programmes will not be reduced to a minimum in relation to the evaluation carried out by the relevant institution of the Ministry, we expect the relevant Ministerial Decision to be adopted. Report by Olysseus Konstantinopoulos to the main ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on the issue of increasing the age limit in the notices for the recruitment of regular staff at PPC. The Megalopolis Association of Contractors of Contractors is promoted, with regard to the change in the calculation of the upper age of regular staff, as defined by the AACC, for those who worked under eight months of fixed-term contracts at “PPC SA”. Reports completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Xanna. It was completed here, ladies and gentlemen, reading the petitions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Let me tell the House earlier that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its reports on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. We enter the first timely first cycle question under number 135/21-4-2015 of MP Achaia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Kanellepoulou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on increasing the price of tickets to museums and archaeological sites. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. Mrs. Kanellepoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. We are pleased that you are here today, unlike your predecessors, who had never come to answer any of our questions. I hope that you will continue, for the sake of culture and democracy, to come and answer our questions. Minister, according to reports in the paper and electronic press, there is an increase in the ticket price for museums and archaeological sites along with the introduction of the so-called online ticket. More specifically, according to a leak from the ‘FINANCIAL TIMES’, as well as other sites and publications, in the context of a new policy on cultural and cultural heritage, there is an increase in revenues of EUR 5 to 10 million for the current year and EUR 20 million for the following years. In the context of this policy, we read that the regime of days of free entry into the archaeological sites and museums is changing, with the introduction of a two-speed system for summer and winter months. Based on data published by ELSTAT on 16-4-2015- and I'm sure you know it - we see that there was a percentage increase in the flow of visitors compared to 2013 in museums by 22.5% and in archaeological sites by 21.9%. The increase in visibility led to a total increase in revenues by 16.3%, i.e. revenues of 54.663.545 euros in 2014. We are urging the increase in traffic by increasing revenues from tickets, and that is my first comment. According to the same figures, with regard to revenue from receipts, the first in the relevant list, as expected, appears the new Acropolis Museum, secondly the National Archaeological Museum. While in the Region of Attica, the Acropolis had revenues of EUR 11,522,490, the archaeological site of Amphiararios in Markopoulou Oropou had EUR 2,428. We ask: is there planning to increase cultural revenues by exploiting its cultural heritage and assets, by applying other'smart' policies and targeted interventions, such as the fight against evasion and not just by increasing the ticket? We are also asking: What are the forecasts in the new policy to strengthen the educational character of monuments and strengthen access to specific social groups, such as the enlargement of the rightholders of culture? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Kanellepoulou. Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, your points are correct, particularly as regards the fact that, since 2010, from the year the crisis erupts, tourism is growing annually and therefore visitors in archaeological sites - which we can well assume is the pillar of Greece's tourist property - are growing, they do not follow the revenues. We have sought this and found that one of the main causes is that a primitive ticket system operates, which has too many losses, too many leaks. In many ways, that's what happens. Furthermore, it is observed that the phenomenon and services are of very low quality in archaeological sites, so that what we have to offer and also this invaluable cultural good that our country has - and which is appreciated by all the citizens of the world who come here as visitors - is not advertised, degraded, considered of less value. One step, therefore, is the introduction of an electronic ticket, a simple, modern, clean method, which excludes any ticket evasion or some'mice' that will enter the ticketing system, starting from June from the Acropolis area, and which we hope will gradually be extended by the end of the year to all the largest places in the country. A second step in the exploitation of cultural heritage by commercial criteria is to improve the quality of the goods sold in the shops and modernise them. In some places the sellers have a pathetic image, which not only honors our country, but also produces no income. Another step is to make use of the network of many refreshments - canteens that exist in archaeological sites, which are also suffering from malicious tenants, who for months or years have not paid rents and have not been persecuted. Some have reached the point of stealing power from archaeological sites. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] A second step relates to the promotion of online presence by e-commerce for all sold and a digital library, from which photographers, cinematographers, magazines, televisions, mass media, wanting to use images or videos from the archaeological sites, from the Greek cultural heritage, which is intellectual property and handled by the Archaeological Resources Fund, will be easy to access with high quality material and in a simple way and with a relatively cheap price will be able to provide them. As far as the citizens are concerned, there is a cultural card, which, in its study, is rather a bureaucratic obstacle to some population groups - mainly the elderly - and has a cost of about EUR 2. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We move in one direction. We are thinking whether by means of a joint ministerial decision we could also bypass this bureaucratic barrier, so that a multitude or a long-term unemployed person, who has his unemployment card, or an elderly person, who has his identity and shows his age, can visit the archaeological site on privileged terms - from free to a very large discount - without getting into the trouble of obtaining the cultural card etc. These are some of the first steps in which we intend to move forward in order to obtain revenue from this huge cultural reserve, given that over recent years visitors have been increasing and revenues are not going to follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister Xydakis. Mrs. Kanellepoulou, here, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. Several aspects of the issue have been clarified. However, I would like to make two comments. Your predecessors in the past also announced the application of the online ticket. In fact, at meetings I had with everyone - I think - your predecessors, while I am a Member of Parliament, spoke as if this was a simple technical issue. However, it was not implemented. In fact, last year, for example, the archaeological site of the Acropolis, which also has most revenues, was it working - to consider it to be a symptom? - the entire season of extended hours without an electronic ticket. They had ruined all four terminals, while even this year since the Great Friday, since the beginning of almost Easter holidays, which is considered a period of great visitability, they had again broken one of the museum terminals there. We think it is time to put an end to this grey season and we really expect the online ticket with too much impatientness. Minister, I hope that the expected increase in cultural revenue will not remain a mere financial contribution to the special debt service account, but I hope that it will be attributed to culture. I would also like you to see, as a proposal and the possibility of legislative intervention, to be beneficiaries of the cultural card and those who benefit from the provisions of the recent law to deal with the humanitarian crisis. In other words, people who will pass through and benefit from the humanitarian crisis bill, also benefit from culture. Thank you very much for what you said about the sale of museums. Our proposals also exist in the SYRIZA programme for culture and I am pleased that they coincide with what you have announced to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Kanellepoulou. Mr President-in-Office has the floor for a second reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u11	My colleague, I would like to tell you two things. As far as the online ticket is concerned, it is well known that a lot has been announced, but its implementation has been difficult or incomplete. He was integrated into pilot programs and received money from the NSRF. I think there is a whole other policy at the moment. There is a new government, as well as a new administration in the Archaeological Resources Fund, which is firmly committed to making more efficient use of cultural heritage for the benefit of the public interest and not for the benefit of some groups that have been haunting public resources. It is our political commitment that the online ticket will be implemented and delivered. I can't say anything else about this. We'll be judged in a few months. With regard to the second, I have to add that, as I have explained to you, our aim is also to facilitate further the vulnerable social groups so that they can access the archaeological sites without even having to - we will see this - to obtain a special cultural card. On the other hand, they will be able to have access to this certification, whether of their age or of their status, which will be the result of an element that already has it, so that they do not bother to make more. However, at this point I would like to express a complaint to our fellow citizens. According to an incomplete, but indicative survey carried out by the Panteion University - in the past days, few fellow citizens visit archaeological sites, while few also declare the desire to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the next time question, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty-two students and students and four of their educational sessions from the 6th St. Demetrios High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We enter the second question in number 142/21-4-2015 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the progress of funding and the development perspective of Amphipolis. The Deputy Minister of Culture Mr Nikolaos Xydakis will answer. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is true that the beginning of your ministerial service has given us an unpleasant surprise. And I say this, because in one of your first interviews you spoke in deceptively about Amphipolis, the excavation that for a long time they have been dealing with - and rightly so - the whole planet. And with an intent to put her in a lock and turn off the publicity lights, you ironically said you're not looking for famous dead. This certainly gives me an opportunity to say that I am one of those who believe that the meaning, the value of the monument of Amphipolis must be disconnected from the identity of the dead. And that is because everything that has so far been excavated and discovered is entirely and diversely important. Your intents became, unfortunately, clearer in your next interview, when you said features: "Read more funding for the excavation is not foreseen. In addition, the excavation has put an end to the excavation, it is over at this stage.’ You didn't, of course, stay there. During your visit to Kasta hill, your reports that there are no excavations in Greece that have received such financial support except of course that they caused their inaccuracy, established the belief that you want to close the chapter "Aphipolis" and put a definitive end to the development perspective that can give the monument to both the region and of course to the entire country. Unless you're a fiancée of scripts and publications that they see, unfortunately, the light of publicity and they talk about agents, archbishops and the funding of excavations from the NSA. Because, of course, I do not want to believe it, but I am unable to understand the reasons for such a derogatory attitude, and I would like to ask you directly, and I would like you to have clear words: tell me what you are going to do with Amphipolis, if you have financial planning to finance it and a strategy for the holistic emergence of the monument. I repeat that I would like a clear answer and not a report of ideas on culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. The Deputy Minister of Culture Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. My question is, Madam President, that I am amazed at the aggressive tone of your question at first. Also, you have not read any of the announcements or interviews I have given about Amphipolis. You use some words selectively, isolated from the text, and you use them very nicely - and I thank you for giving me the opportunity - for what it means to make a holistic use of a space and a monument. I never said the funding would stop. I never said the monument was worthless. I said the whole opposite. I guess you haven't read the lines well. I said the monument in itself is of unique value. I said that the landscape surrounding it is uniquely natural and with huge archaeological wealth, revealed in the last few decades, that it has been accompanied by at least two archaeological sites present and ready and a very nice museum in Amphipolis. I also said that from the estuary of Strymon to the precious ancient mines of the Pangae, the almonds, olive groves and the hill Casta, it is a jewel, a miracle of nature and man-made intervention and that it needs a holistic approach, a holistic thought. This is not just about excavation activity. The excavation activity has set up an upper perfection. When a excavation takes place - ask the archaeologists before asking questions to the House - it involves the maintenance and restoration of the monument. You're visiting the hill of Kasta. You will see that the monument, if not restored in time, will be buried under the sand. Look at the precinct with the wonderful marbles. It urgently needs drainage, jobs, that is, they are not typically excavatory, but they are resurrected and rescued. Look at these and you'll understand. You also understand that funding continues. It doesn't go on for the excavation itself, digging and digging. But expenditure continues and work continues in other areas and highly qualified, such as anthropological analysis of material, maintenance of findings, study of findings, laboratory studies and a complex technical and costly process of rebuilding the overall monument. This is all public information, too many times have been published. What you may not know is that at a meeting, on the same day as the autopsy I held in Amphipolis, with the District Director Djijkostas and we had some initial thoughts about what a comprehensive archaeological path could mean, a cultural path that the visitor could visit the monument. The monument is not a visit as it is now. With no international protocols a visitor can visit this thing. By no international protocol is allowed in burial monuments, where specific climatic conditions are required to maintain the findings, enter the world and disturb the microclimate and endanger the life and health of visitors. All of this takes time, study and much work. So don't rush. Stay in this right thing that you pointed out, the holistic approach, and stand by to highlight the monument. The monuments are not looking for famous dead and for micro-political reasons. We are looking for them and looking into them and studying them for the knowledge, information, culture and information about the undisturbed historical continuity of the people who lived in the region. This was one of the first ones I pointed out, which you also did not read. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to talk about Amphipolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Arabaji has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u17	Minister, your tone is aggressive, since you told me I obviously haven't read or that I don't know how to read the interviews you've given. I imagine in the same situation - not to understand what they read - there will be the 50 spiritual people of Serres who, by letter, immediately after your first interview, which I invoked in the newspaper "The Step of Sunday", call on you to continue the excavation work on the Kasta hill. Obviously, they would have received some stimulus from the wrong readings you implied. I would like to thank you for your suggestions to visit the hill Kasta. I have done so, Minister, since 2012 as a first elected MEP, when the burial precinct was still in the 200 ninety-eight meters, and when there was no funding from the Ministry of Culture and on the basis of some parliamentary control the first 50 thousand euros were given. So I've visited Amphipolis. I'm in touch with the excavation team. I'll agree she needs rehabilitation. But I heard nothing about numbers, Minister. Numbers we want to hear. We want to know what the budget for this work is needed for the restoration...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u18	Mrs. Arabaji, I'm sorry to interrupt. I was just informed that there was a problem with the microphone. Can you please move to a adjacent seat so that they can be recorded and heard, in fact, what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u19	Is there a record of what I said, or should I say it again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u20	Yeah, obviously. They just didn't sound well from the microphone in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u21	So I was saying before this interruption because of the microphone that I heard nothing about numbers, Minister, which are extremely important. This reminds me of Mr Varoufakis' 'creative ambiguity'. I would like to insist on the issue of funding, because you have not answered anything about your statement that there is no excavation that has received such funding. So I will say from the information I have at my disposal, and I hope you do not deny them, that the Ministry of Culture has spent the mythical amount of EUR 600,000 on Amphipolis and the other ministries and the region have spent a hundred and fifty thousand euros on it. In total, four hundred and forty thousand euros have been spent, Minister, on Amphipolis. Not even a thousand millimetres of advertising worldwide and from all means could we not pay with this money for our tourist projection as a country. With this little money, from 2010 onwards, a small number, tireless and inspired excavation team... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like you to give me the time I have lost because of the microphone problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u22	Mrs Arabatzis, you will have the tolerance of the Bureau. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Mrs Peristeris has worked quietly to highlight and offer us - with crumbs, I will say - a unique historical and cultural monument, for which the least you should do as Minister of Culture, who respects himself and the portfolio assigned to him is to make every effort to highlight any cultural, tourist and economic aspect of this X-ray monument. I am pleased that you have stated that you will not replace Mrs Peristeris and allow her to complete her work. I hope you will stick to this statement and not behave in a similar manner to the one you have held at the National Theatre and Mr Hatzakis. I do not know, of course, whether this decision will run counter to any quasi-corporational discrepancies, which unfortunately cannot accept the work of Amphipolis and Peristeri. But the excavatory miracle of Amphipolis, Minister, is above political, party and trade visas, it is a national issue and as such must be dealt with. I am really sorry, because at a time when the country is surrounded by regular and unscrupulous bankruptcy from the government's negotiations, at a time when you'spirit' the funds' reserves to pay the obligations, at a time when you lightly decide to give 500 million euros to repair savage planes, then, at that time, you are taking out the broken-ups of an allegedly good administration in Amphipolis. So finish the work as you have set it out, with the restoration you described, but without giving any figures, unfortunately - I will insist. And make Amphipolis, Minister, a monument to visit an hour before, to cut off tickets from Amphipolis and not to have to come into an act of legislative content that will bind even the deposits. Create archaeological site visiting all year long, so that you do not be surprised every time you visit a monument and see it closed Sundays and holidays. You said about political purposes and made us an indication of parliamentary control. I understand that you didn't have the luck of discovering Amphipolis against Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. Because I'm sure that in this case you'd have set a tent on the Kasta hill. Please, however, do not go too far and you are, as you have to say, exempting Amphipolis from the logic of party cleansing. I'll close with a statement from you. I hope that she will be transferred in the way she has been said. You said culture is not for you as a luxury dog, but for every day's bread. I hope you do not consider Amphipolis a luxury dog and let it die of hunger, depriving him of even the daily bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to make a technical remark. Archaeological work and excavations shall not be done with budgets. They are made by the method of self-care and accountability. In other words, they start with a premeditation, and move on, they raise capital and resources. And when they put up some overtime and create a project half-time - because a job can last for many decades - it becomes a first account. That's all for the budgets you're asking for. Can you tell me if there was a budget when the Amphipolis excavation began? Do you know any such numbers? And all those numbers you invoke, where have you found them? Do you know how much money was just spent there? It's not exactly what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u26	You tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u27	You don't ask me in the timely question. Challenge another. You ask other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u28	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u29	Look at that. I told you how to do the work. What you say about party persecution is sad. You think, on the occasion of Amphipolis, you're going to talk about planes and everything else that's fallen into your perception in the last three months. So I don't think it benefits the monument of your particular constituency, a monument that I did and I honored it on behalf of the Government...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u30	You had to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u31	Of course, I had an obligation for all of Greece. And that's what we do. As a government this is what we do: we honor every corner of Greece, every aspect of Greek culture and every Greek citizen. Neither divide nor divide. What you say here in Parliament on the occasion of a monument, which we honour, respect and do everything we can to highlight, does not honor neither the Serres nor the hard work that has been put into Amphipolis. Be more conscientious, provoke the interest of the state and incite it, to confuse the omissions, but do not share worldly adjectives and designations, which are also impatient. What happened to Amphipolis will continue, according to all the protocols of science and the Archaeological Service, in accordance with the archaeological law. You are talking about protections and setbacks, without even knowing what archaeological law provides for. We are furious defenders of the legal order, we arrest the lawmakers of the administration and the illegals and those who make false contracts for themselves. Read very well what is going on. You are young, you have a passion for your place and I very much appreciate that, but do not unfairly blame the people in the government. Recognize the work done. Thank you for giving me a chance to talk about Amphipolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u32	Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u34	Mr. President, excuse me. I know that it is not foreseen, but I could ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u35	Mrs. Arabaji, this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u36	Not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u37	I could ask for the floor on staff. Can't the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u38	This cannot be done, nor is it foreseen. There's no one in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u39	I want to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u40	Will you allow me, Mrs. Arabaji? I'm not giving you the floor. The topical questions, as you know very well - you are not young, you have a term of office so far and experience from previous parliamentary periods - are being discussed in this way. You have the right to protology and denology. The Bureau has already been rich not only with you, but with all the Members, in terms of the time and the tolerance it shows and, in my opinion, it is doing well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u41	I just want to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u42	Your question was answered by the Minister, as answered. You have no right to speak again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u43	I think, Mr President, that the answers were shorter in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u44	So, Mrs Arabatzis, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, censorship from this step is not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u46	If we go like this, we're going to inaugurate another type of practice, which I can't solve. This will solve another body within the House. You don't have the floor, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u47	No censorship is allowed. The examples of Mrs Constantopoulos cannot even be mixed up by the ministers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u48	Allow me, but you don't have the floor. I'm not giving you the floor. You didn't ask for the floor, I'm not giving it to you. The third, with number 128/20-4-2015, top-stage question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of Finance, concerning the Government's intentions to protect disabled pensions and the incomparability of the first residence, will not be discussed due to lack of competence, as we have been informed and deleted. It's not the Minister of Finance, it's the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u50	Here you go, Mr. Pappa. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] My question was about the honourable Minister of Finance. The questions, therefore, were as follows: Does the Government intend to legislate on all disability pensions, for whatever reason (i.e. public, ECHO, banks), since these disability pensions are the only income of our fellow citizens? When will it apply on a permanent basis - and not as an extension of validity - the irresponsibility of the first residence? I am referring, therefore, to our undignified fellow citizens, AMEA, who have as their only income this disability pension. So we received a phone call from Mr Varoufakis' office the day before yesterday, and his secretary told us that the Minister is unreserved and probably, without knowing it, he will be a different ministry. For us it is incomprehensible to place the official responsible for the office of the Minister. I'll put down the question for it to be in the Minutes. I want to say one more thing, Mr President, without being rude. It's not my character. Besides, Mr. Varoufakis as a new politician, although a political opponent, he likes me. However, I cannot understand this: it is supposed that he negotiates agreements with the lenders of millions of our fellow citizens, millions of Greeks, agreements which will unfortunately affect us. And that is not only what we of the Golden Dawn believe, but millions of Greeks. It cannot effectively avoid control and answer our questions for a small part of the millions of Greeks, the small ones. So, Mr Varoufakis wants to dialogue only with the extremists and not with his colleagues within the framework of parliamentary control? Mr President, I believe that everything that is being done is because the government and its representatives are fusing, when, unfortunately, the government is ready to follow the footsteps of a neoliberal and harsh policy, with the new burdensome memorial measures that are coming. I'm putting my question on the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u52	We are now entering the first with number 134/21-4-2015, a topical question by the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis (Panou) kouriakou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the problems of the State Theatre of Northern Greece. The Deputy Minister of Culture Mr Nikolaos Xydakis will answer. You have the floor, Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the State Theatre of Northern Greece is a very important theatre organization, the country's first decentralized theatre organization, which has offered a great deal to culture, to Thessaloniki, to Northern Greece and to our home country, contributing important performances, artists, actors and other factors and having a very dynamic staff, technical and administrative staff. So this institution, with its rich activity in the production of culture in our country, is in a precarious position. The reason for this is the implementation of the Memorandum of Policies that reduced the State Grant, as well as the application of article 58 of Law 4002/2011, according to which the government then decided to close the Opera of Thessaloniki without the management of financial control, thus transferring all debts to the State Theatre of Northern Greece. Today and after many questions that are raised for managers, with regard to the theatre's finances in this difficult period, workers are more than two months unpaid, and they are also due to the payment of several months' allowances. We know that last month, the Deputy Minister of Culture disbursed a sum which touches a million euros to pay workers but because the administration and the artistic director have not regulated the debts, a large proportion of the funding - around EUR 520,000 - has been retained - while huge debts have been accumulated from large productions and there are unregulated debts, such as from the Municipality of Thessaloniki, for the theatre. According to what the workers and the institution as such are in a very bad position, and this endless economic warp is threatening for his future. So you ask what are the political initiatives you intend to take, so that the State Theatre of Northern Greece will also become one of the main cultural production cells in our country. Do you intend to carry out financial and management audits of the administrations in recent years? Because they saw the publicity of information that the Ministry intends to carry out such a check. Given that the problem of the State Theatre of Northern Greece has been created since 2010, when the Memorandum policies have reduced the grant of the Ministry of Culture to theatre, in what depth of time do you expect this control to be carried out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, there is indeed an acute economic problem at the State Theatre of Northern Greece. One of the first acts we signed as a government was the disbursement of a sum of 1 million for the State Theatre of Northern Greece because there were difficulties in paying prizes. From this 1 million, 540,000 euros - as you described - were automatically seized by the accounts, by the IKA and by a bank loan. The accumulated debts are huge, touching about 6.9 million. The annual grant is 5.8 million. The current artistic director in his letter, with a clipboard financial statement - very clippingly, we cannot draw many conclusions - describes that the first year he received paid 2.4 million for debts, fines and burdens of the previous administration. Right now, what's the situation? We have given another million, but 460,000 euros will go to IKA to finally make the debt adjustment in fifty instalments, that is, the monthly payment of around EUR 18,500 to enable the theatre to withstand it. What has been happening for many months is that even when wages were paid seems - I am not sure, the management will look into this - that contributions to IKA were not paid. Something has happened there or so much debts have been accumulated that have reached 2.5 million euros. At the moment, the debt to the IKA is 2 million. There is a debt of 175,000 to a bank loan. From there on, it has a weight, what you described, the opera's debt of 1.2 million. There is a VAT that has not been refunded -1.1, but it will not be returned soon, because a finding of auditors on the Agency is expected and only when the findings of the auditors come out will be cleared up. There is also a debt disputed with the Municipality of Thessaloniki of 750,000 for "Demetrios". The municipality argues that this under the programme had to be paid by the Ministry. The theater says the city had to pay for it and is in this situation. The conclusion is that both the past and the current administration have failed to harness this economic chaos. Furthermore, without taking into account the really hard budgetary adjustment from 9 million to 5.8 million - 2010 was 9 million, 2015 is 5.8 million - they did not adjust the theater's functions to protect workers' wages. They do not understand that the grant they receive from the state is first and foremost to ensure that wages, wages, abrasives and then go to third party productions or wages. This is where they reached the point where they owe the workers money. That is why the state is not responsible for this, and that is not the responsibility of the administration. After that, what we have to say is that we will do everything in our power to meet the wages and needs of workers working and order management over a period of years, and will be thorough in every account, because with public money and public interest no one is entitled to play, nor with the sweat of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Darkness, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u57	Minister, it is important that you really work to put an end to this adventure of the State Theatre of Northern Greece and continue to work as it has done so far. Importantly, this hundred-dose adjustment, this recent law,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u58	One hundred and fifty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u59	One hundred and fifty doses for the State Theatre of Northern Greece, even more. So this recently voted by the law government also helps culture, helps the State Theatre of Northern Greece. I would like to tell you that my fellow actors and not just, all technicians, all commanders emit SOS. I want to read only a few phrases from a message sent to me by a fellow actor: "This is the State Theatre of Northern Greece. STOP. We're evacuating SOS. Four years of undermining the organization, full depreciation of Macedonia's cultural lighthouse, unpaid all workers, unpaid Christmas, unpaid and Easter." It is very important, therefore, to put an end to this whole story and you need to see the whole question of these state theatres, probably by energising an administrative director because artists are not basically competent and it is not always necessary to know how to handle finances in a way that corresponds to such an agency. Of course, at least as theatre people should know how to handle - they are important professionals and they know the market - the issues should not work with such a total lack of risk. Let us say, is it true, as I have heard, that the performance of Alexander the Great at the State Theatre of Northern Greece cost 600,000 and did eight performances only? Or is it true, as I have heard, that the leading director of the National Theatre where the highest salary is EUR 1,800, paid EUR 64,000 for the participation of an artist in Epidaurus? We are people who come from the space, from the theatrical market, and we are very well aware of the dangers. We cannot be so comfortable and a little prosperous when we are in a public body. Thank you very much and I hope that both for the National Theatre and for the National Theatre, but also for the great subject of the theatre throughout the Greek region, you will pay special attention and we will have very good results, hopefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. The Deputy Minister of Culture Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u61	I thank my colleague Mr Skourikos who gives me the opportunity to complement that in fact in the Ministry's intentions it is to establish a position of administrative economic directors in the artistic organizations, so that artistic directors too can engage in their work, which is the artistic figure, the production of artistic work and not interfere with jobs that may not take them, nor can they finally assume such a burden that they are exposed and are also absolved as artists. This, of course, requires legislation, because the founding laws of artistic organizations, specially designed for theatres and the Lyric scenes in the early 1990s, gave the artistic director superpowers, were in some way photographic, these laws for some powerful persons of the time. Times have changed, things have changed very much and, above all, what we are now trying to inspire in all the administrations of artistic organisations is a sense of extreme responsibility towards public money. When the whole society bleeds and hurts, it is not possible for artistic directors - for the good of the theatre to do so - to plan and demand money from other times. Around them there are unemployed artists, unemployed builders, unemployed accountants. All Greece is suffering. How can it be possible for themselves to hold remuneration for other times? This goes through every sense of humanism, not equality. Secondly, something extremely important, which sometimes leaves us astonishing as it is irresponsible to the limits of tachographism in the management of public money. There is no elementary household and basic care when with public money you try to produce a project. You must be a more householder than your home. This, unfortunately, is not observed and phenomena are observed, which reach the line of criminally confusing. That is why we have indicated to all the artistic organizations, on the basis of the administrative investigations we have conducted and at the National Theatre and now the management control at the State Theatre of Northern Greece, which is about to begin, and we have distributed to everyone that all contracts, all costs because they relate to public money, are compulsory to be posted at the “DIANY” so that they are accessible by every Greek citizen and, of course, by the supervising authorities. In the next few years, we will also move on to legislation that sets more safety limits, more safety rules and better working conditions for artists within artistic organizations. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to say these two things about the theatres of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The fifth, with No. 123/20-4-2015, top-level question for the first cycle of MP II Athens of the Independent Greeks Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Health, concerning health measures to protect the citizens of the Tower of Elias, due to the accumulation of waste in the area, will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister and deleted. The sixth question, under number 131/21-4-2015, of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the launch of the program "Solidary Settlement at home" under the Partnership Agreement (ESA - new ESDP) 2014-2020 and the relaunch of the building activity, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. We are now entering the third with number 136/21-4-2015, a topical question for the second parliamentary party of the Communist Party of Greece, Eleni Gerasimidou, to the Ministers for Finance and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the payment of workers on the National Lyceum and on the guarantee of state grant. Mrs Gerasimidou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. Mrs Gerasimidou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our question concerns the payroll of the workers of the National Lyrical Tent and its grant. Artist Director Michaelides informed on April 15, 2015, the Workers' Association of the National Opera about the inability to pay payment payments for the Aprils, but also the subsequent payouts, since the State grant of 2015 was given the first instalment and the balance is unknown. It is known that once the procedure of your Ministry has begun, it will take ten days to reach the Single Payment Authority. Today we have 30 April. We ask, what measures will be taken to give the balance of the first instalment and how will the grant needed for the smooth operation of the National Lyceum, for the timely repayment of the accrued, insurance contributions and suppliers? In addition, I have to tell you - and you know - that since September 2014 no one special artist or supplier has been paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Gerasimidou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the annual grant of the National Lyrical Tent is EUR 10 million. So far, until the end of March, 3 million had been disbursed. The millions of the April dose are to be disbursed within the days. There are no significant delays. I mean, right now, the National Opera, as soon as the dose is disbursed, will be able to cover all wage obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Gerasimidou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u67	With this assurance - I do not know, of course, why we should have contact with the workers - I hope that this amount covers them. We have in mind the amount of money, but of course you have only answered for payroll. Because in our question we ask more, we need to see it more fully, so that the National Lyceum can function properly, like all the other things that my colleagues have said before. We will of course come back with other questions, because the subject of the Theatrical Museum is very hot. So at the moment, your answer is in terms of payroll. In other words, you have responded to that. I insist that you say something about how you handle the matter, so that the debts are given and not come to the state theatre. Because - if you want me to think - it was not my issue, but we cannot throw it all over mismanagement or if we drop it on the previous people, I do not know what is happening now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Gerasimidou. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, there is indeed a reduction in grants to state agencies since 2010, but it has been five years since then, and we all know that the whole country lives under the weight, under the maximum financial adjustment. I think as the hospitals suffer, they suffer the theatres. We cannot make them suffer less, unfortunately. This is the state of the country. On the other hand, we are making every effort to ensure that, firstly, people do not remain unpaid and, secondly, that a decent, beautiful artistic programme can be presented. I think that at this stage of hardship, debt and artists are to adapt to this difficulty that their fellow citizens are going through and present a project with the least money available to them. Artists cannot have more money than the rest of the Greek people. I think at least there must be one justice in this thing. The National Opera is a long way away the highest sponsored artistic organization throughout the state and is the nature of the performances that make multi-experienced. And that's what we're trying to do with all the means we have. The budgets have been voted on since last year. We are trying to implement a budget that we have not drawn up. And we always try to stand by the people who are fighting to present an artistic work. And we ask for their support. We ask artists not to stand up to the government, but to support their suffering citizens and present them with a work, to keep them up their minds and mood and to be together in a joint effort to rectify them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The fifth under number 115/20-4-2015 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health regarding the timetable for the abolition of the Anonymous Society of Hospital Remuneration System (ESAN SA).), it shall not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister and deleted. The sixth question, under number 105/20-4-2015, of the second question by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, concerning the procedure for selecting the Hospital Units, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u72	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. I just wanted to point out that this question on the major issue of the choice of hospital administrations in general and hospitals in particular has not been answered, although it has been submitted with all possible forms of parliamentary control - questions, questions - and this is the second time that the Minister responsible has not answered this question. I respect both the Ministry's time and obligations. He is here and the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Xanthos, who invokes irresponsibility to answer that question. I respect that, too. I believe, however, that the issue of the choice of hospital administrations is a huge issue. It is a deeply political issue concerning the functioning of the National Health System for the years to come. We hear from the media, which the Minister is slowly giving, and there is also a practice which has been recorded by the appointments of the officials of health regions who are not well placed. There is the major question of whether or not to observe existing law. The request is for the question to be answered at some point. Minister, we will re-submit it and continue to submit it. Our position is that the choices must be made by means of notices, transparency and clear criteria. Unfortunately, the Minister and even yesterday in Larissa said that the positions are political and that he has the right to choose his partners. I think it is an obligation for the administration to respect the laws and choose the best, based on the laws in force. On this basis I am waiting for the answer and I say that the timely question will be retabled next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. The seventh question under number 104/17-4-2015, second question by the Member of Parliament, Achaea, of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the need to immediately repay the sums due to hospitals in Achaia, is not discussed due to lack of competence and is deleted. The eighth Question No 106/20-4-2015 topical question by Mr Kyriakos Kyriakos Harakides, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning articles by the manufacturer (Lockheed Martin) for the reconstruction of the old-fashioned P-3B aircraft and the counter-proposals of "AIRBUS", is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. We enter the second with number 143/21-4-2015 topical question by the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the selection of the new Regional Directors of Education. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Kourakis. Mr Fortsakis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your presence. As we all know, according to Law 3260/2004 Regional Education Managers are appointed primary or secondary teachers, after a call of interest and candidates are submitted. The choice, as provided for in the law, is then made on the basis of the candidates' important administrative and scientific qualifications. On 16-2-2015, an invitation was made to show interest in the submission of applications for the thirteen Regional Education Managers. We had four hundred and fifty two candidates, and then by decision of 9-4-2015 the Ministerial Appointing Decision was published at the same time as stopping them until then. The role of Regional Education Managers is particularly important since, among other things, they exercise management, control and supervision over all decentralised primary and secondary education services of the Ministry of Education. The process must be pragmatic, the most worthy being chosen, so that we can have the guarantees that they will achieve the task assigned to them. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] I would like to ask you to answer what criteria have been chosen by the thirteen regional directors. In particular, if you are so kind as to tell us whether these people, selected, have postgraduate qualifications, if they have knowledge of foreign languages, if they are qualified in the field of education administration, whether there has been a comparison of the various competences of the Ministry and how the comparative assessment has been carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u77	I would like to thank Mr Fortsakis for presenting this timely question, as we are able in an official way to respond to an issue that seems to be of concern to the educational community and not only because there are various publications but also various opinions on the subject. We know that the institution of the Regional Education Departments and then of those responsible for these addresses has come with the provisions of Article 14(2). No 29 of the Court of First Instance Regulation (EC) No 2817/2000. This institution, therefore, is an institution without a term of office of Regional Education Manager and, as you said, comes from public primary and secondary education teachers. It is very important to explain and substantiate that the moves and actions of the Ministry of Education on this matter were entirely within the spirit of the law. The law therefore stipulates that regional directors are posted civil servants appointed and suspended by a decision of the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs. I say this because the law does not provide for a committee procedure, the submission of criteria and other procedures laid down in other positions. Thus, the law says that these positions are selected by a list of candidates following a call, of course, of interest to public primary and secondary education under three conditions, i.e. a degree of higher education or another equivalent title of foreign and national, at least 15 years of education and significant administrative and scientific qualifications. I would say that we are all aware that this position is not purely educational in order to follow a process of placing one on the part of the Ministry, which has the most academic and other qualifications, such as postgraduate or other qualifications. It is not purely administrative and it does not have a purely administrative function, because we would then like someone who has a very large administrative experience or similar qualifications in this area. It is a very special position, as the legislator, chosen by the Minister, has anticipated, taking into account the previous positions of the thirteen regional directors, is to implement the respective government policy. As in previous years, they had been placed in these positions and the political leadership had been cast down from the result. Therefore, the Ministry fully acted within the framework of the law, has had the full power to place in the opinion of those who in this very difficult place could implement government policy in the best possible way, so that by applying the policy one can say that this policy has or did not work, I like or do not like this policy and is not related to specific persons in the regional offices that have implemented this policy. For the rest, I'll tell you in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Minister. Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your reply. I think we have a somewhat different conception of the role of regional directors, in that of course we accept that regional directors are implementing government policy in the field of education, but education must remain outside direct party influences. The educational and regional director's ability to implement the Government's choices is not necessarily linked to his participation in actions of a particular party. In my view, therefore, even though the law does not provide for an exact selection procedure, the Minister responsible should have set a procedure according to which an evaluation will be made. And of course, you have rightly pointed out that it is not just the scientific qualifications that they measure, but it is also the more general administrative capacity. However, in this case, we have thirteen regional directors from whom, as far as I know, no one has the slightest postgraduate qualification, no one has any foreign language certificates than I know and no one has any expertise in the field of education. Of the four hundred fifty-two, i.e. thirteen were chosen and I am afraid, Minister, that this choice was made on the basis of their trade union action. Because it is known that from the thirteenths the twelve had rich trade union activities in the field of the ruling main party and the thirteenth in the field of ANELs. I think that this choice, based on the party and trade union criterion, is not correct and does not correspond to the spirit of the law. I also think that these particular persons were distinguished from the opposition they had expressed in the application of previous laws and, in particular, the evaluation law. This is not the moment to discuss the evaluation. I think that we all realise that the evaluation, although it has been strongly criticised by the current ruling party, will not be avoided in education, because one third of civil servants are teachers and some form of evaluation must also be adopted there. Most of all, however, it is impressive that the encouragement of the thirteen regional directors not to follow the law has been - I fear - a criterion for preference to be given to others, who would also be more qualified in government policy and could better implement the government's choices on education. Minister, my opinion and desire really were that education could be excluded from direct political and party control, and I say that over time, because in the past there have certainly been behaviours which do not respond to this concept. It's good to start sometime with having a different attitude to education so that we can rectify it to the place she deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u81	Dear Mr Fortsakis, Mr Colleague, what we can do now - and I have announced it - is to resolve the question of training officials. It is a key issue and the solution to be given depends too much. As you know, in the bill, which we shall be discussing in the sense of urgency on Monday, we are introducing certain temporary arrangements concerning the selection of directors, school directors and school directors, primary and secondary schools, in the law and addresses. In this we show an intention, as you have called it, that the government should be involved as much as possible. We do so because we remove an element which involves arbitrary and subjectivity, which is the interview, and instead we introduce the possibility for teachers, who are in school, to vote in a way that 1/3 of their vote is taken into account, which we will discuss in detail, in choosing the best for these posts. But certainly what matters - regardless of today's issue - is that we intend to move on with your own assistance - I mean, as a party - to a comprehensive reform of all three levels, that is, from the top to the top - school manager, management, regional manager - to see if this model is the best possible. I do not hide from you that there are enough knowledge and suggestions from your party if we do not need the regional director's institution. In other words, could, for the sake of simplification and efficiency, be given management powers to the central services of the Ministry and at the same time at the same time confer responsibilities on the lower levels so that there is a substantial decentralisation and not just a decentralisation? However, if - we have the opportunity to say this - your opinion is that there should be a different legislative framework for the specific positions of regional directors, in which there should be a committee, qualifications, modulated, etc., all this is within the framework that I mentioned could also be done in this way. But I say to you that in our thoughts, Professor, it is about going to a total change in two things: not only of the way we choose but also of the responsibilities. There are too many issues that need to be modernised. I think that on many points all the wings of this House can contribute, although - and here I will disagree with you - the question of education is not an issue which can be dealt with in the same way by all political groups and all ideologies, because education has a strong ideological burden. You see that the policies pursued by previous governments were in an alpha direction. Let me remind you of the abolition of skills in technological education, the introduction to the concept of training for children who are not even going through the normal educational process, the introduction of colleges and their recognition and much more. In other words, I would like to tell you that the 'children' part already has a very important ideological burden, it has a class analysis, it has many other references and parameters. However, for parts of it relating to issues of bureaucracy, mechanism, implementation and many other things, as in many other services, those responsible for other procedures which do not have such a great political burden can really be chosen. We will have the opportunity to discuss this in greater depth in the process of reforming this framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Minister. Here is the second question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the problem of Special Training and Training Labs (EEAEEC) and Technical Training (TEC). The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Anastasios Kourakis. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I will be withholding your words on'strong ideological burden on education'. I want an answer to the level of'strong ideological', but in practice, if possible, in order not to make the 'load' burden on the backs of children who seek it - and I mean 'go' - the misery of the Centres for Vocational Training and Training. We are talking about people with special treatment, which means that all the families of the people who need it are involved. Today is a particularly charged day. That's why you listen to me like that. Today in 1926 compulsory education was introduced from six to fourteen years. Therefore, this includes these children. In Aigleo, there's a hundred forty-three children. And in the hundreds of forty-three children - because they're a few, I'm asking you if you're going to make a new one, how much you're going to make - accounts for a psychologist, two working therapists, no social worker. We're talking forty-three kids! One hundred and twenty children are studying. They can't all go there. At least six persons are missing from the technical and auxiliary staff. We are talking about situations under which they cannot be avoided - and they happen - and injuries to workers and injuries to children between them. This situation cannot be controlled! And education staff are with the NSRP in the vast majority. More than 90% of substitutes. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] We're in the last quarter of school year. There is nothing working and special education has ended up being five months old. Five months? What are you going to say? Compulsory education for five months? What do they get? I'd say that if we weren't in the House. I would say the word 'kapa'. I shall use the "pie". They're getting it! An old paper, which is a certificate of study. It does not guarantee them any professional rights or anything! These kids are in a Cabinet- I mean they're thrown into a cave- because of the lack of money and staff. And I told you about ideological burdens, because the answer we have received to a question that we have asked February as a Parliamentary Group on special education and especially on the part of the Peristeri, where there is a new building, which with some interventions it can operate - and it has not been completed and is not working, Mr President - the answer we have received from the Ministry is outrageous. And tell you why it's furious? Because he refers to the real estate "Something S.A.". Don't tell me why I'm using English words. Tsipras started it, and I'll go on with it. His "asset" just entered. Hello, Mr. Varoufakis, to joke very good hearts and to tell you that we support you when you are under attack.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u85	Well, in that sense you cannot tell me 'there is no money'. You went and collected the last franc that existed from the regions and municipalities from the reserves. For ten people they need to finish the building? And will you, the whole Parliamentary Group, Codjam Ministry, go check out the schedule of the company he's been taking over? So, what are you guys? Company employees? You guys catch her from the ears of the company. You assigned the company to do this job. I, the Congressman, will go to the company to ask her: when will you finish, my doll, the work you have done for children with disabilities? No way, that would be outrageous. We didn't expect you, left government, to tell me to go to the company to ask her about the schedule. You're the ones responsible. You're the government. You guys are doing all this. Take a wheel, a watch from these five farts, the planes for which you give five hundred million. Take a wheel. - a seat belt, a cover, cover this. We're talking about kids. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. You know what? Agios Dimitrios covers all secondary education in the 4th Directorate. Heraklion covers the second address. We have three - four everything and a high school and high school in Athens for disabled children. Just one! If Caeda is the case, or if Caeda can enter into bureaucratic, fiscal adjustment or anything else, this is an ideological burden that - I am sure I am cutting my head - there is no way there is half a person in here, regardless of ideological position, who wants to lift this burden.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u86	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u87	All that the honourable Member has said is exactly what she said. The situation in the field of special education and, in particular, in the Special Vocational Education and Training Labs is - I dare say - to the limits of misery, not to say misery. This is because they are students who have special learning difficulties and needs - I would say - and therefore the State's treatment should be proportionate. I would say that this is not even the 'equal opportunities for all', because these children, because they start with unequal startings, would like different support. I am referring both to children with special educational needs in general schools - but to do so, in fact, additional teaching support is needed, for example, a child with autism must have a teacher next to him even during the break - and also to the Special Training and Training Labs. I would like to add something more, which we are dealing with. Many of these children after high school are often forced to stay in the last classes to stay, even in these lousy structures, more so because there is no prediction of what will happen next. The evidence you have raised, that they are given a paper without professional rights, is of enormous importance. How are these kids gonna live? Apart from acknowledging the situation, I tell you that what we are targeting as a ministry is two things. Firstly, to change the institutional framework for specific education. As you are well aware, the previous government had started and was ready to take down an institutional framework, which was condemned by everyone, and why it did not give any answer to the rights of teachers and why it did not give any answer to the issues we mentioned earlier. The other and very important issue - you suggested for the sake of briefness - is that for substitutes of 90%. You know, if we assume that in other schools we can have substitutes to fill gaps, here's the sense of the deputy, that is, the man who changes every educational period...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u88	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u89	Yes, it's unacceptable. In fact, changing education in certain situations - now I speak as a doctor - is tantamount to torture. He sees the kid new face and gets completely lost. So here we should only work with permanent teachers. I can assure you that from the appropriations that we can have for permanent appointments for all education, which are few - much less than we would like - we will try to make such a division so that we strengthen these structures. This does not mean at all that we will be able to fill the gaps in time, because these structures are structures that want strong support, because, as we have said, they are aimed at children with special educational needs and special monitoring. I shall end here, and I shall refer to my dentistry in the laboratories and the specific subjects of Egalean that you mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Kanelle, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u91	I'll tell you something and you won't get me wrong. I'm saying it perfectly well. Tomorrow it's working Mayor's Day. I'm worried when you agree so much with me. I'm deeply concerned. I'm so worried I don't know what to tell you. Do you know why? Because when you agree too much with me you cannot commit yourself to time, necessarily, like the previous ones, the previous ones and the previous ones. From the payment of parliament and democracy in here you do not make any commitment and you hide behind good intentions and 'will'. And you tell me about a void and a hole. Let me agree. I don't want to fall into the hole, neither do you or I in time. There's a hole, and I'm sure you understand it. No way you don't understand it. That's a matter of common sense. Only fascist, who considers these people outraged and picks them up on his websites and cultivates them in schools, would be against these things I ask you to do. Do me a favor. After we agree so much and since we cannot always fall into the void, until you bring the grand plan - yours - for education, which will have all the ideological burden and change it, bring a far-reaching amendment to any bill, even though it is irrelevant. I and all the Members who listen to us in the Bureau and everywhere to accept it as irrelevant. Because the hole of the five months and the huge gaps of this torture, which you yourself admitted - you are a doctor, you know, it is true - that it exists, cannot continue. Bring to any bill an amendment that will oblige the pigeon to end tomorrow morning with the company. They must be hired, appointed immediately, five, six, seven, ten people necessary for the existing ones and the elementary ones secured and stopped having anxiety, injuries, torture and mental situations and twenty-five children who cannot afford to go from forty-three. Who's gonna tell you something? Let's go to the emergency procedure. You know, I can't have the populism of the equalisation of social classes problems with others. I also heard the Minister of Culture earlier saying: “The builders are hungry, why should the actors not be hungry? They're hungry. Why should others not be hungry?’ It can't be done. At least for the Communist Party it is impossible to produce fairy tale and comfort, comparing two calamities to decide what is more calamity than the other calamity or two problems to decide which is worse than the two problems. In common, it is impossible to compare between the two graves, who is more deeply opened. So if we agree, tell me about the urgency procedure. It's a pity in the pigeon that we're done and hung by a company. Pull their ears. Throw her out. I don't care what you do. It's a shame to be six people out of here and three out of there. So we can't find a social worker? Can't two psychologists be added? We have a hundred forty-three children with disabilities. If the House needed a psychologist, if we needed a psychologist here - I don't doubt that, we might also need a psychological support - where we are three hundred, one would bring? And we're not supposed to have any special needs. These kids have only one psychologist? What can that man do to you? And here, when we're talking about schools and special education, I'm sure if you decide to talk about a bill, it wants a new detailed programme, an orientation for the content of the studies. Aren't you talking about prevention? Aren't you talking about children not having to stay in there and suffer "educational enthusiasm" because they have no place to go? Does the outdated free market of the European Union have any excuse for me, allegedly of equal opportunities and of the great European authorities? What paper is the kid gonna get out of? A disabled child has gone to the special lab and will learn an art. Many of these children are extremely talented. You know that on your own. Many of these children have special skills and can produce amazingly nice things and be useful in both the chain of production and everything. These children can also be a cultural indicator. I believe that the country that manages to deal with its weakest, with those who need special care, especially when they are children, raises the bar of its culture as a whole outwards. So since we agree, I would ask you very much to answer me how quickly you will deal with this issue. Break the process, bring the drum, turn it upside down, and let me know if half of it is in here to object to you. I bet that. Start immediately from the Bureau, end up out on the street. Take this issue, Minister, to salvage a situation now, because we have another three months of school year ahead of us. And you need to include a provision for summer. Because in the summer, it is these children who are completely out-of-date about the time they have already lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. As for what you said about the five-month period and the amendment, I do not know whether it is a matter of regulation or whether we can deal with this with the existing provisions. However, I can tell you that we will see this very seriously, in particular, in the direction of resolving what you mentioned as 'five-month-old education'. What's that thing supposed to mean? What's that? I do not know whether we should reach agreement with the relevant ministries, because something might need to be changed. But if something needs to be done, we'll do it. About the OSCE in Aigleo, just as you mentioned, they are two therapists, a psychologist, a school nurse, a literary therapist and a specialist staff officer. This is a very small number for all these children who, as you said yourself, are about a hundred forty children. We are making a serious effort - and when I say a serious effort, I mean from the appropriations that we have and very directly - to cover them with permanent staff and the other organic gaps that concern - and these do not cover - an additional therapist, a social worker and an additional specialist staff officer. These will be included in our positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u94	Six of them are missing from the auxiliaries. Don't add one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u95	We'll see. Let's do this. What can I tell you? Now we have the pigeon. In Peristeri, as we have been informed by the relevant training directorates, there was a space problem for housing. Finally, the former 3rd Municipal School was proposed, a fitness committee was set up, a static check was carried out, a check was carried out, the building was considered appropriate to house the workshop on condition that a series of interventions were carried out. In this context, we must speed up and press - not you, don't run, I don't know how this answer came, it's ours - the completion of the work so that this OSCE can be housed. That is why we are in agreement with the co-responsible ministries and municipal services so that these work can be completed as quickly as possible. We understand that here we specifically stumble that these procedures must be completed first and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u96	What company is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u97	We'll see. Well, it's none of your business. Really believe me. Is that right? You're right. It's not like you and the rest of you running. We have to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u98	Give us the OK and they'll collect teachers, builders, and make it in dt time. You don't need a company.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u99	We'll do it. I think, Mrs Canelley, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be able to respond to this, at least, which we promised. It's just a little bumping. This is not a solution, nor is it even part of the solution in the face of this problem, which really embarrasss us all to the extent that it exists and operates as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, Mr Varoufakis, I would also like to express my full support for the attack you have taken yesterday. These attacks are not only attacks against political persons, they are attacks against democracy, and I hope they do not continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and an educational attendant from the private Municipal School "School Panayotopoulos". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you for the visit. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, twenty three trainees and three escorts from the "Greek Psych Health Center" in the Piraeus Annex. The House welcomes them. Thank you very much for the visit. Subsequent to the first question by Z' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Pediatric Clinic of the University Hospital of Larissa. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. The problems concern on the basis of and question the paediatric clinics mainly of Trikala, but by the way of Karditsa. The development in the issue of malfunctioning or - if you want - the suspension of the function of paediatric clinics in both Trikala and Carditsa is not lightning in ethics. The explosive situation and the enormous shortages of children in the public health structures of Trikala Prefecture - and hospitals and health centers of the prefecture - were already known at the end of 2013, since, with the planned retirement of some children in the first half of 2014, the problem was reflected much more strongly in the General Trikala Hospital to meet the needs of the paediatric clinic and by extension of the regular doctors and the overall activity of the clinic. Of course, the problem was further exacerbated in September 2014, when the Paediatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Carditsa, where she has been living there for over a year and a half and a half for two years, the principal only two or three qualified pediatricians. They're invited there to Carditsa - listen, listen! - to meet the needs of inventing, operating the clinic, the emergency 30 days per month. Now let me know if that's possible, possible, and so on. So the situation of the two hospitals is marginal and dangerous as far as the paediatric clinic is concerned. This resulted in Halloween closing the Trikala General Hospital clinic because a doctor was ill, the inauguration needs could not be met. They shut it down and transferred the kids to Larissa General Hospital. However, this is still the case. That is, in addition to the problem I mentioned and how it was solved, continued and rotated, the pediatric clinic opens and closes. In fact, a week ago the board of directors, in front of the inability of the three children present at the Paediatric Clinic of the General Trikala Hospital to call on, took a decision on the suspension of the Paediatrics service, i.e. it will not be able to hospitalize children. Obviously, other activities, either the emergency or the external medical office, will be covered. But look at the problem and geographically. Now the western one - to say it like this - Thessaly, Trikalon Prefecture and Carditsa Prefecture - is no longer covered at the level of paediatric treatment of events that have been constantly occurring for months. So the question to the Minister is what action will be taken to ensure that we - we say permanent staff, doctors with a stable employment relationship, but also, of course, that the needs of the other staff, the nursing staff, who are intense and increased, will also be met. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u105	First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the question, because I think it is a very important deficit in the care of the region of Thessaly, which is a very critical one. As you quite rightly pointed out, the delay was from the past and worsened at this time, because it really is so marginal that all hospitals and clinics, particularly the province, are being staffed, with the slightest disease, with the first pregnancy leave, with the slightest withdrawal of a doctor or another employee, derailed the department and compromised the proper functioning of very critical parts and services. We have said from the outset that the health system is probably at its worst in recent years. It's completely disorganized. There are structures that fight survival that face terrible malfunctions in their daily act. We have to deal with this as a state with absolute priority. In other words, in a period of humanitarian crisis, the poverty of society, the poverty of health, cannot be the absolute priority of addressing these urgent needs. The problem is that, unfortunately, even if there is a political will - and I think it is obvious that the current government has given this signal and with the Prime Minister's speeches - that there is a political will to support public care, strengthen the EHS, cover emergency needs with permanent staff - we are at one stage - because exactly the signal given in recent years is that public care is going to be dismantled, that in this country young doctors cannot have a decent professional perspective - in which there is a strong tendency to migrate young doctors abroad. You know that, too, because you are a colleague. We have reached the bad point of proclaiming supplementary doctors' positions - and we fear that this will also happen with the permanent positions that we will also be proclaiming in the next few years - which, unfortunately, are not covered and that these atrocities are going to take place. An assistant doctor's seat at Carditsa Hospital was already called, which in December was found to be barren. For the post, too, published for Trikala Hospital so far, there is no interest. However, we will insist. We have in our design the proclamation of two ancillary children's seats in each hospital and from one permanent position of the child in the next period. The agreement we have reached with the HR and a solution has been found at the moment - obviously emblematic - is that there should be 15-15 days in which, that is, 15 days in which, 15 days in which and 15 days in which. That tackles very marginally. We will make use in the next few years of even positions that will be called for primary care, the CEDEFOP and the health centres in the area to further enhance the functioning of these clinics. We believe that, in June, the situation could have been somewhat normalised. Things are very difficult and you know that. The demand of society is very right and we really take it into account. Unfortunately, with our direct intervention tools, we cannot in a shorter time get a better result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Look, it is what was said before another timely question: You may agree, the question is the solutions. You deleted one direction in general. This is a solution right now. See: You said that posts were announced, the Prime Minister - I remember very well, we all remember very well - by the Ministry of Health announced - correct me if I am wrong - four and a half thousand recruitments in the field of health, which by the way started previous governments and were not implemented. That's all right. So, at least in 2015, we are talking about these recruitments, when we know very well that the needs are multiple, huge - I am now generally speaking on the basis of the specific question that we are discussing - medical staff in hospitals, health centres and medical staff. Look, yes, we are both fellow doctors in the health field. Even in good times were the PASOK and NW government ministers going out alternating, and what did they say? Twenty-five thousand, says, nurses. Five, six, seven, eight thousand doctors. In the period since they were told - and I am talking about the pre-crisis period - the needs have increased, i.e. the number of staff required, because in the meantime, they have started and retired, left the work of the world. The announcements of the four and a half thousand are a drop in the ocean, let me say, because in the year thousands will leave because of retirement. So imagine that here we're talking about drops, about drops, maybe, not even about them. I listened very carefully. The fact that the Paediatrics in Trikala is not working is assimilating skills that are helped - let me say so - by the pediatrics. For example, the gynecological clinic in the obstetrics section has suspended its operation. So in Trikalon prefecture, the woman is unable to give birth to the hospital and she is forced to go where land - you want to Larissa, you want to Volos, to the neighbouring prefectures - because obstetrics, i.e. the part of this clinic, has no support from pediatricians. They lifted their hands and suspended the operation. This is a board decision. You spoke of a humanitarian crisis. Excuse me, we have a lot of opposition here. We say that it is a carabinalist capitalist crisis and within this capitalist crisis rights are being sacrificed - that is, what our people are experiencing - at wages, pensions, social benefits. Why? In order to save resources from the state to boost investment, profitability - we say - of monopolistic groups and businesses. And, of course, in this direction, unemployment is escalating and social structures are shrinking, as a result of sub-funding, resulting in the closure - what we are experiencing and reflecting today - of clinics and departments. You said - and I know it too - that it was decided to rotate the two clinics, the Paediatric Trikala and Carditsa. But that's how I've been working for over a year. A week's running Cardits and a week's Trikala. So - if you'll excuse me now - the one who lives in Kalambaka - and the mountain villages still hold the world - will be forced for a pediatric incident to come down to Carditsa or similarly from the Agravia - the southwest part of Karditsa or the west - to travel and I don't know how many kilometres, under any circumstances, whether or not to have the means? And imagine the problem is urgent too. Because no matter how kind, no matter how well-qualified the self-employed, private pediatricians, who are intervening directly, this urgency will be dealt with in a timely manner. The hospital, however, is well aware that it can provide you with complete treatment, rehabilitation, etc. The system's falling apart. And it collapses because there are certain responsibilities. Look, Minister, here we need a specific timetable. We cannot leave it all to 'will'. We all agree to recognize the problem. But how do we solve this? He wants personal. We say, permanent staff! And you know it well as a doctor, because you've been working in a hospital all these years. Is it possible for the system to work with subsidiarys? Of course, they will not go because the conditions are unacceptable to hospitals and even to the permanent positions you will be calling for, if necessary. Because when the doctor goes and doesn't have the means, he can't. It's not just a lack of staff. Since what he has conquered with his knowledge and science he will not be able to apply them for the benefit of patients and the people, he of course resigns and stands up and leaves. Let's not talk about the level of pay and unpaid newspapers now. So, of course, it's a question of funding. And that's where the whole thing is touching. It is, however, also a question of confrontation on the path of development which requires and requires private sector support in the field of health and destabilisation and destabilisation, if you want, of the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I am sorry for the abuse of time and your tolerance. Thank you. I'm hanging up with this. I really want you, Minister, to commit to when the process will begin. Immediately! There is a possibility - we will all agree in the Chamber if necessary - by urgent procedure to proceed with some issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u111	Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u112	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u113	My dear colleague, we know her and you described her excellently. That's right, no exaggeration. Let me say that this was not a side effect, it was not a side-effect. In our view, there was a political project that said that the crisis would be paid by the world of work and by the social state. This was the political project, which has been implemented in recent years in our country, as well as in Europe as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u114	I didn't say about a side loss.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u115	The previous government said that due to budgetary narrowness, we could not solve the problems. There was a conscious choice to shrink the public health system and the social state and leave a vital space to develop the business sector. That was the political plan. This political plan is over. We have an absolute bias in favour of public care, because we too are people of public care. We have served her, and we have fought for her for too many years. But you know very well that the requirement for immediate improvements, unfortunately, cannot exist because, as you well know, the procedure for placing an adjunctive doctor is more than four to five months and therefore for an urgent shortage to be covered by the system. We, therefore, in the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reform, which comes next week, have tabled an amendment that will greatly reduce this year, it will completely change the procedure, there will be lists per specialty and per hierarchy, and the doctors will be asked to fill out the gaps that appear. This is an improvement in the procedure. I told you again that, unfortunately, the problem is that because exactly the signal that was given was that public care goes for dissolution, there is no entry of human resources into the system. We must therefore reverse this climate. We need to find a framework of incentives, in particular for the arid, island and rural areas of the country, so that, in cooperation with the self-government, we can make these positions more attractive to young doctors, to give a decent professional and scientific perspective to the young children who are currently going abroad. We do not have the illusion that we can correct in a short time all the distortions, malnutritions and shortcomings of the health system. But in that direction we are trying to move. There will necessarily be emblematic solutions in this transitional period. We are fighting today to keep the health system up, not to collapse public structures. We are trying to broaden access to uninsured people. These days will conclude the new joint ministerial decision which will provide for the resolution of this very important problem, the health care of the uninsured. We are trying to strengthen public care. We will work with the human resources of the system. We understand the difficulties and adversities. We ask for his understanding. We know she works under conditions of very high wage and working pressure. We respect the work people are doing today in the public health system and we ask them to help in this extraordinary phase until they deliver the needs coverage plans. I believe that in May we will be able to declare a package of supplementary posts for both primary care and health care. With this amendment we are extending their term of office. We are talking for two years in the region and for three years, except for the arid and island regions in special sections, such as intensive care units, neonates intensive care units, TLS, artificial kidney units, mental health units, oncological departments. We are trying to give more incentives to meet these needs, knowing very well that it will be a difficult year. We have a budget of cuts and austerity for the health system this year. We will try, to the extent that we ensure the successful development of the country's central negotiations and to the extent that there is a fiscal stability and greater capacity, to reform budgets, to support public hospitals and to bring public care to the level required by the reality of the humanitarian crisis and health poverty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister. That was an unanswered report that's been made. There's a relevant question for Mr. Lambroulis again. I'd say, if you can, we can shorten. After all, there has been a very interesting discussion. Let's try to keep longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u117	I'll try to be short and not to be abused...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u118	I say it because the question is relevant. So we will now discuss the fourth with number 138/21-4-2015 topical question from the Z's Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the need for direct staffing of the pediatric clinics of Trikala and Karditsas Hospitals. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Please, in time to be a little more crowded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u119	Perhaps with my own fault before I said, you referred to Larissa. Anyway, we didn't coordinate. Previously, it was said by the Bureau that the question was about the University Hospital in Larissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u120	It's okay. The debate was, however, very interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u121	It's okay. I mention it for formal reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u123	I'm going straight into the question. It's the same question as the Trikala and Carditsa. There is talk of the University Paediatric Clinic at the University Hospital of Larissa, where the problem is the same, that is, there is a lack of staff to both doctors and nurses. That's more general, of course. There are only four NSA doctors. Now look. Combining the question with the previous conversation we had about the deficiencies in Karditsa and Trikala, the University has objectively been led to being effectively recipient of all the incidents of Thessaly. Because the Larissa General Hospital has three pediatricians who are invited to attend all month and to be there all the time. If one of these three at Larissa University Hospital gets sick, imagine what's going on! So people now come to university from all prefectures, that is, all four prefectures. The RHP also covers other, except in Thessaly, prefectures, health care needs, i.e. from Lamia, etc. In the pediatric clinic, the problem is huge. In addition, Mr President, there are other issues described in the question, which I would like to see placed by the Minister. These concern the child intensive care unit and the care unit, which are in fact not working. This is a serious matter, because you imagine a higher university hospital wanting to meet needs and requirements in the provision of health services to children or in emergency and very burdensome health situations. Of course, the indignation of doctors and staff is just because, as acknowledged by everyone, difficult conditions are called upon to overcome themselves to meet needs. But look, even patience and patriotism have a limit. Because that's what they're told, that's'hold', 'wait'. In fact, there is the same problem, that is, on-calls are unpaid. It is, of course, a part of the puzzle of the whole problem, but it also has a stronger expression. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u125	The question is obviously relevant. In fact, it is absolutely problematic that a tertiary hospital, a university clinic, is essentially covering the cases to a large degree of primary and secondary care of an entire region. This also cancels the role of this hospital, this clinic, which should offer another type of service, specialized care, pediatric care. This shows that there is a total deficit in all the paediatric sections in a region which, in our view, needs to be addressed. As a matter of priority, in the planning that will take place in the next few years, we must allocate either permanent positions, subsidiary positions or even positions with special agreements. We have said that especially for ICUs and newborn ΜΑFs we first want to ensure at this time, not only that they do not close operating beds - the Union of Ethnicologists tells us that it is in danger that the operation for 100 ICU beds will be suspended immediately, due to lack of staff - but to open another fifty to 100 beds. That's our political goal. At the moment, there are closed two hundred IF and MFN beds, which are not operating due to a lack of staff. The problems are also important at the Larissa University Clinic, since it is very marginal. As far as I know, there are secondments to other hospitals. I think a move will also be made in Lamia. The post of director at the Larissa County Hospital is now covered. So there are many problems. The issue of the development of the "Children" and "Children" MF is very important. There's a recommendation from the medical department. The body needs a change. However, the Clinic's rules of procedure are also the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, because it is a university clinic. We are in a spirit of understanding, so that this institutional prediction can be made. First of all, what needs to be done is to capture these sections in the Agency and then serve as a priority. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Unfortunately, as I said before, we are at a stage in which we are fighting and striving for survival and not for the development of the health system. This year is critical and will be difficult. However, I believe that, in cooperation with the human potential of the system, which offers excellent services during this difficult period, we can hope that the situation will improve and that we will undo this climate of low expectations that exists today and in society, but also in young doctors, for the future of the National Health System. That's our will. We'll do it as much as possible in a more designed and methodical way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for three minutes. Mr. Lambroulis, please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u127	I will be brief, Mr President. Thank you once again for your tolerance. Minister, we have said before that you recognize needs, just like everyone else. And that's something I insist on. The question, however, is the immediate solutions. The problems require immediate solutions. And because you referred to the 2015 budget, saying that it was voted by the previous government in 2014, I would like to tell you that a budget can change. If you want, you can make extra resources available where you need. You're going to tell me, of course, that we're going to have to get these resources from somewhere. Excuse me, but get them from the people they have. For we say in what direction the state budget is moving. This is our position - and this is our position - in the direction of reallocating income to entrepreneurs, monopolies, etc., while burdens, through the taxation of the budget, pays them, by the people, the workers, the self-employed, the small and medium-sized ones, the farmers. This, of course, costs, by exploiting the crisis and reduced funds in the social sector, in the health sector, and, as I have said before, sub-financing, sub-sistence, lack of infrastructure, etc. As far as the Higher University Hospital is concerned - you also recognise it, like all of you - the question is what its role should be and when it comes to providing health services to the pediatrician. And I'm coming to the ICU, to the children's intensive care facility. I would like to say that there has been a unit of newborns and has been operating for years, with remarkable colleagues who have given their souls. But there are problems, too, in this unit that operates. Because the other two, especially the P.T.S., don't exist. Now, if you're talking to me about the MDA, it does not exist within the hospital's internal operating rules. It served as a substitute for some urgent problems. However, the fact that the MAH is not included within the organisation means that it is not officially recognised and that it does not have the right of staff, etc. We, Minister, are calling for immediate solutions to these issues and to the university hospital, but also to the other hospitals, as I told you before. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Now I gave you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u129	I will be very brief, Mr President. I think it was an interesting conversation. The battle that is being fought today has three levels. One is the relief of patients in the health sector and the removal of charges which citizens have had in recent years, through a process of passive privatisation of the system, where, due to its shortcomings, citizens were constantly being called upon to pay their costs at every step within the system. We have already taken a first measure in this direction, abolishing the EUR 5 access ticket to hospitals and health centres. At the same time, the most important battle is the fight for survival and operation - in fact, well-functioning - of public structures. That's very critical. That's where the whole conversation turns around. Obviously, the issue of funding is central and obviously this cannot be dealt with on a sustainable basis. In other words, it cannot guarantee a reliable public health system and a reliable social state in a country without addressing the central issue of taxation, a fair tax system and the redistribution of wealth. Only in this way can we hope as a country and as a society that we can really have the social benefits that we deserve and which the dignity of the people of our country imposes. This is a matter of political will, it is a matter of concrete measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u130	Minister, you're turning it over to whether you have a new tax system to secure resources...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u131	No, I'm not moving. I say that in order to ensure a sustainable funding of the health system in the long term, there must be a reallocation of burdens and a fair taxation of wealth. The great reform that is pending in this country is precisely that. To have a system of taxation that captures the real wealth at its source and evenly allocates the burdens. This is, in my view, the crucial issue. At the same time, of course, we also need an institutional reorganisation in the system. We do not defend the way the health system was operating before the crisis. He had pathogens, distortions, muds of wasteful demand, corruption, transaction and exploitation of the disease. And that is what we have to deal with. And we have no reason to offer political immunity to this function that affects both the dignity and efficiency of the services. Therefore, institutional changes and a shift in primary care will also be needed, where we want to place a special emphasis on making the critical pillar of the health system really crucial. In public health and the administration of the system, too many changes are needed. I believe that we will have the opportunity in the next few months, through legislative initiatives by the Government, to discuss all this. What is important now is the battle for survival. Unfortunately, the demand for immediate solutions cannot be guaranteed with the institutional tools we have. We will try to reduce the time and find the necessary resources to implement this whole plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Minister. Subsequently, the fourth under number 120/20-4-2015, a topical question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Finance, concerning the existence or inappropriate framework from the Greek and European authorities regarding the Risk Exchange Conventions without the respective possession of securities - state bonds. Mr Giannis Varoufakis will answer the question. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, firstly, wholehearted and wholehearted support. We all compare our powers with you. They are related to the question that I have said, because Greece at the moment - and you, Minister, know it better than I do - does not accept a pressure as the only legal entity, as the only state. Greece is under pressure on behalf of all peoples. And for these people he fights today. He's fighting a democracy. And in this fight of democracy, speculators and the entrepreneurs who have taken a dimension - I will be allowed to say - economic mafia that actually wants to claim the administration of the states - and that is why there is a democratic deficit, there is a risk of the same, namely, democracy - they have a weapon in their hands. The weapon is the possession of risk premiums for bonds of states, such as Greece, but they do not have equivalent bonds. Ask one, by the average person who watches us: Why should he have the insurance risk of a bond that does not have one? This must not be noticed. It is the coup d'état, through which it infiltrates the global system of state control, so that it is possible with this to play with bond prices, to lower them, to speculate with them, to increase the need - and therefore the price of risk insurance - for bonds which do not possess and then to come to buy these risk insurances, so that they can earn surplus amounts at the expense of the states and thus blackmail the legitimately elected governments of the nations so that they can run them and not the legally elected governments. That is why, Minister, in wanting to "explore" your presence in this Ministry, I ask you and I look forward to your intelligence and combativeness to tell me how - we have some ideas - the Greek state can legislate to the extent that it cares for at least Greek bonds so that this big ferry can finally be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I would first of all like to thank you for your words of support. I think we are all committed to the difficult struggle, but at the same time also to the enormous need not to seek easy solutions to the issues of violence. I have come to say on this occasion that the solution is neither naughty nor unintentional, nor the violent repression of violence. I shall be asking you, however, because, as you have said quite rightly, this is another form of violence, a form of violence which has a very civilized form, but is still violent and destructive. Of all toxic derivatives, naked risk premiums, naked CDS, may not be the most toxic. There's more that's worse. But they are certainly the ones that demonstrate the moral void that the triumph of the financial system has given birth to societies, to democracy, to the real economy, to healthy entrepreneurship. You know, during today's negotiations, some of the institutions are constantly talking, raising the issue of moral danger. In other words, if, for example at the moment, we are insisting on banning auctions in the midst of a crisis, on the eruption of people who cannot repay their housing loan, they answer - and there is one logic in this, it is not that there is no logic - 'if that is the case, why others to pay their housing loan, there is a moral risk, creating a situation, a process that makes some to be immoral, that is to say have to pay and not to pay'. There is the view that in order to prevent this moral danger and to avoid such behaviour, let these people on the sidewalk so as to save the banks' capitalisation. It is an argument that we see before us, and we are the ones who are negotiating it. But when you think that the financial system itself, part of which are the institutions and regulate it, accepts nude CDS, suddenly you start to wonder where they start and where the limits of reason and morality end. Because, badly lying, it's the equivalent of me having the right to conclude an insurance policy of myself, in case your own house is burned, without having any legitimate interest in not burning your own house. Suddenly, I have a legitimate interest - at least in money - to burn your home. Does this create such incentives not constitute a moral risk? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Look, in the crisis of 2008, all these products, all these toxic derivatives were created as derivatives, which were not problematic. So the idea that you're buying an asset and at the same time buying a premium, if anything happens, is not bad at all. But when this starts to dismantle, trades and loses the reasonable amount of money that ties up these two and you can buy a premium on someone else's asset, or you can buy the right to buy shares, not buy the shares, but buy the right to buy the shares, and suddenly you have thousands of brokers who don't buy shares, but they buy the right to buy the shares, all of a sudden the financial system is not only absurd, but it gets dangerous. Because this leverage means that it reaches a point where the collapse of an asset title starts a process like the one we saw in 2008. And who's paying for it? People who fly on the streets and see some to ring them and talk to them about the moral danger to be saved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u136	Minister, because there is a second one, if you can finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u137	I shall close, Mr President, by saying this: you know very well that the solution cannot be given in a national context. The market for CDS is not in Greece. The Greek state cannot prohibit the sale of CDS for anything, for Greek bonds, for housing loans to your neighbor or for anyone in the Wall Street, City of London and Frankfurt. It is obvious that global agreement is needed, at least European agreement, which regulates and essentially prohibits naked CDS. You can be able to buy CDS, but not naked CDS. To be able to secure your titles. That is something that we are promoting in the European Union. We are not the only ones, and other European countries are promoting it. All we could do is symbolically ban it in Greece, to show a move towards it. We will think about this and we will think at its basis if it helps us in the context of the European Union, ECOFIN in particular, to convince our partners that we need to move on with this. And - you know - there is a great resistance from some of our partners - I will not talk about whom - which will not help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u139	One idea, and I'll just say. Of course, we cannot prohibit the issue of an insurance policy which, for example, is issued in Germany or the United States of America. However, since we have the issue of bonds in our hands, we can agree in advance, when we issue a bond, and this is a clause in the bond issue, that if the person who holds the bond exchanged it with the person with the risk insurance naked, he has lost the value of the bond by 50%. There, automatically, the risk insurance becomes inactive. That's an idea. I would like to say, however, that this fight taken by Greece is given to everyone and those who do not understand it will soon understand it. If Greece succeeds in overthrowing, others will succeed. If it does not succeed, the messages are negative for the rest of the people, because Greece has suffered this most. I would therefore like to say that, for the sake of symbolism, this matter has to go up. I do not know if an opponent or a interlocutor in Greece is the German Republic at the moment or is BUNDESBANK, who is behind the German Republic. Much has been said about the involvement of German banks - let us say - in supporting Obama's candidate in the American elections. I mean, if I say that at last everyone, with a symbolic move by Greece, must understand that opponents of peoples and democracies and legitimately elected governments are some who are unseen and not the governments who are involved and negotiate with them. And that is why you, Minister, and the Greek Government of national interest at this time has a most worthy duty to symbolize this ban. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u140	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u141	I will be very brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u142	You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u143	I'm gonna need a lot less time. We'll consider it. We have to consider more, for example, short selling, bond lending for their sale. I think this is more crucial. I will end up with a bitter comment. Let me remind you, of course, that in Greece of the crisis, the Hellenic Republic does not issue any bonds, except with a small exception last April - in my opinion. We hope that the negotiations will normalise the situation and enable us to talk about the after-June period of Greek recovery, where we will sometime enter the markets again, issue bonds, but this time in the context of a sustainable debt and a development path of the Greek economy. Be sure - and you will also be with us, this is sure - that in this process the Greek Government will do everything it can to pull the carpet under the feet of those who are speculating against the real economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Minister, and the consistency of time. Subsequent to the ninth under number 103/17-4/2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the repayment of funds from the Financial Stability Fund (FSF) to the EFSF. The Minister will answer Mr. Yanis Varoufakis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although we are not many, we have two left: the Minister, as the previous speakers have said, and personally and as the Independent Greeks, we support your efforts. Personally, because of the deep relationship with finances, because I know the stress of crisis management, I want to tell the friends of the Exarchates - and let them record, I don't care, because I, too, grew up there and listened to punk, post punk and heavy metal and spent our years from the seventeen holocausts in some dvd shops entering London - that we are all Greeks, we are all people democrats and we are circulating and we have to be released freely. Dialogue seems to be normalizing everything. We are closing it here, because we are a democratic people and we must all govern democratically and circulate freely in this country. Let us move a little on the question, which I would like to say is that it is a technical text, but we should be aware of the way and the logic with which the 10.9 billion bonds to the EFSF were returned from the Financial Stability Fund. One of my most important questions - you would see it in the text, although it is six - is the use of 1.5 billion, which was the cash contribution to equity, where cash was used and not equivalent bonds. Also important is the latter - I do not want to read them so that we do not lose our time, because they will stay in the Minutes - because it has not been 'closed' earlier than 1,185 billion from the Financial Stability Fund. He could sell the bonds, use them so that we do not get to the point so that he can ask us for all of the bonds, but the net amount that would have been settled earlier. Finally - and most important of all - 10.9 billion left and went to the lenders, our debt was cut by 11 billion, as we were all told? The previous government has said that when they leave or go in the form of the other financial instrument of the preventive support line they will be available, but they will leave the public debt. We want to know whether 11 billion debts were written off respectively, so that from 177- with GDP data around 180 - we have gone to 170, to take a nice step towards our budgets, especially the debt. To close, the 1.5 billion, because it left to recapitalise banks together with the 1,185 billion, would also like to see the list of banks that used them. I know only Proton and another one, I don't remember what it was from the corresponding text of the CFSF. In addition to Mr Mavragani's question, as well as your previous answer on the management of a mechanism that is not a bank, I would like to say that the EFSF does not have a bank permission. He's getting a guarantee from states, he's coming out on the markets, he's borrowing, he's making a bond, he's giving it to us as his debt. The bond is a debt instrument. We put it in a bank as active and recapitalize it. Then he asks us back. But, at the same time, the 48.2 billion that he has borrowed us, we owe it with one interest. We haven't seen our loan. We've been talking about it for years. We've been talking about this together. If this has a loan cost, 48 billion of the CFSF, what is that cost? What are these bonds? Yeah, we had an income from the coupons. We should put them down to see, because the fund needs to be looked into, because no one before it has been searched, and you know it very well. It was all - and forgive me the expression - in bulk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Finance, Mr. Yanis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u147	Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. As you know, it is a question, which has dealt with me, which has dealt with public opinion. The opposition, and as a government, had the courage to blame us for having made a mistake in returning this money, 1.2 billion, and to incur us for inexperience. The Ministry of Finance's announcement is detailed. I assure you that I myself have written it, precisely because I consider it very important. It's three and a half pages, you've read it. I can submit it in the Minutes, Mr President, if it does not exist, but if I do not have time to reply specifically: it is true, according to the DPRK, that after the bonds were returned, 10.9 the debt was reduced to 312.7 billion. That's an item on April 20th. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, presents for the minutes the above communication, which is located in the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, as far as your very important questions are concerned, you ask me why the bonds were not used because they were actually used and the bonds were not used. First of all, let us make it clear that this decision, in order to use the cash, was taken by the previous government in the days of the previous government, following a recommendation from the Board of Directors of the Financial Stability Fund, with the full agreement of the Bank of Greece and of course the previous government. The reason why these cash was used - and that is reasonable in my view, as far as the management process is concerned - is that these bonds had a interest rate which is much greater than the interest that the CFS would receive from 1,2, if it were held in cash. So the Board of Directors of the Financial Stability Fund would have checked it if it hadn't done that. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I should also like to reply to your question, as regards those recapitalisations, what amounts and what banks have gone to: New Proton Bank 450 million, in two instalments, in the process of selling it to Eurobank. Probank, 563 million and that two instalments, its absorption process by the National Bank. In this regard, the Commission notes that, in the absence of any evidence available to it, it is not necessary to assess the compatibility of the measures in question with the internal market. This is the answer to the question of how this figure of about 1.2 billion was used. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] It is clear, Mr President, that I am not going to take a moment, so I may need a little more time - that, as I have said, this amount has been used to include the Financial Stability Fund Board, against the very statute that says that, when you have to choose either the first or the second way, you have to choose the one that has the greatest benefit for the public. I now bring you to the Eurogroup agreement of 20 February, which was the extension agreement, in fact, of the loan contract, so that there is a negotiation period, this bridge period that will lead us, hopefully, to the June agreement. Under this agreement, the European Central Bank demanded the return of these bonds from the FSF to the EFSF as long as the negotiation lasts, with a view to returning, for the use originally specified for the recapitalisations and resolution of the banks. In other words, it is absolutely irrelevant if it is in the CFS or the EFSF as regards its use. The Greek Government could not use this money anyway. Only with the agreement of the Eurogroup could they be used, even if they had stayed. However, the point is that this 1.2 billion, essentially, was used for days of the previous government and cannot be used today because it was then used for repos. That's the point. There was no legal possibility, after 20 February, that we or the CFSF would refuse to return bonds of 10.9 billion. None! The decision was this and the 10.9 billion had to be repaid immediately. There was no mistake, that is. Where's the mistake? The mistake lies in the fact that the previous governments accepted operating conditions of the CFSF, which essentially deprive the sovereignty of the Greek State of its money. This happened in 2012, again after 2013 and again after 2014, with the revisions of this loan agreement. We, together with the Board of Directors of the CFS, tried to save everything we could and used a technical term. We said that since we could not legally deny EFSF's right to request these bonds back, we used the technical term 'unintended consequence'. In other words, there was an impact on the reserves of the Financial Stability Fund, which was not it, which was intended to use 1.2 billion in 2014. We have written the letter to the CFS. And I want to tell you that if EFSF - ESM were to decide, in good faith, it would return that amount, it would already have been returned. We firmly believe that this return has not been made - legally, they are not covered - but I believe that the essence lies in trying to maximise the pressure on this government, in order to retreat, as the previous speakers have said, something which, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you, will not happen. I would therefore conclude by concluding that the Financial Stability Fund and the Ministry of Finance, in the context of the existing laws and the EUROGROUP Decision of 20 February, acted directly and assertively in order to optimise the public interest, which the previous governments' agreements with creditors and on which the requirement to return the entire EFSF bonds was based. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Colleague, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u149	I won't need three minutes. Thank you, Minister. Let me note the happy juncture, remembering Kastelorizo and reaching out to this day, that we have been a negative front page worldwide, with negative protagonists worldwide, defaming the country for over two years. The defamation continued after the change of attitude of Mr. Samaras, after 2012 and after the PSI, which destroyed the universe in Greece and destroyed the credibility of the country and cannot be re-expected and re-expected on the markets - we must say this - but as they did last year, covertly, inviting us - not to explain technically, because no investor trusts you when you're tired of it. And that's why I have my own knowledge, because then I wasn't a congressman, and I did this job. Minister, I believe that this is an opportunity, as Mr Mavraganis said, because Greece is the first new world, to highlight the issues that Europe's voters and taxpayers do not know, which are two - three fundamentals. When you use a mechanism instead of a bank to lend you, who comes out on the markets and borrows you with his debt, many don't understand what it means. It's like he lends each other the checks he's taken from the other, and at the same time charges you interest, and you turn the check back to him. People must understand that it is a debt that is not real, just to say it. We have given state guarantees to Greek banks over 203 billion. It does not mean that we have covered the cash guarantees in one corner. That's how the lenders loaned us. And in conclusion, Minister, I would like to say that this is a golden opportunity for Greece, with you economic leaders - and this has nothing to do with anything else, I see you as Greece's tool outwards - to pass the truth out. To pass on the truth to the European taxpayers, who - from what I understood in my debate with fellow SPD economists who had come to the Committee on Finance - have heard the millions of lies. No one voter in Germany knows the truth about what has happened in Greece and how we have been borrowed. And when I told them to call me one day, at my expense, to tell me in three hours at the Bundestag what happened, they refused it. It's a great opportunity. And I believe that what they say outside, the moral hazard, that is, the whole situation, which can be negative for the economies, can be positive for the people and Greece, at this time, rather than the negative example, can be the positive one. Because the truth is one and it must reach the voter and the taxpayer of Europe, who unfortunately is coming and making us ill. He does not know that all governments lie, for good political reasons, to voters. And I will say - and I do not care - about the level of finance ministers at ECOFIN. I happen to know two, three. Now I guess you know them, too, Minister, better than I do. Their level is below our expected level. And they get to put us in the hand and teach us a lesson. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, if you wish, you can comment or fill something, provided we are short in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u151	I have nothing to comment on. I would like to thank my colleagues very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent motion for a resolution on Monday, 4 May 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 152/28-4-2015 topical question by MP Preveza of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on "dismissals and scandalous contracts at the Preveza Toll Station". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 171/20-4-2015 topical question of the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of National Defence on the modernisation of naval cooperation aircraft. 3. The question asked by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the "provocative actions of fanatical Muslims within the Greek state". 4. The 155/28-4-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy, on measures for the new anti-nuclear period. 5. The 147/27-4-2015 topical question by MP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism, on the cut-off of the beach road of Edipsos by landslide and the destruction of the provincial network of Edipsos - Lake. 6. The Question No 145/27-4-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance concerning the directive on the non-taxation of farmers' allowances and subsidies. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the legislative arrangements for the adoption of the Preciousness Claims. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 168/28-4-2015 of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on "the assignment of our Macedonian name to the Skopje". 3. The 148/27-4-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of Independent Greeks Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the management of waste at the Tower of Ilias. 4. The question under number 127/20-4-2015 by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Economy of Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the privatisation of the Piraeus Port Authority (PO). 5. The question asked by MP Drama of the River Mr Kyriakos Charakides to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the figures and data relating to the total amount of loans to enterprises and households, the amount of red loans and the amount of guaranteed loans from the Greek State. 6. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnania of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the reduction of the cost of crossing the Charila Trikoupi Bridge in Western Greece. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the proclamation of the Communes of Dodeas and Zagorios as a flooding person. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the "recovery of 1,2 billion who, according to government statements, were "graved" to big business with a specific amendment". 3. The question asked by MP Ilias of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Javara to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the construction of the western part of the ‘Olympia Road’. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-30-S1-commons.u153	With the consent of the House at 12.36 p.m., the sitting on Monday, May 4, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
