ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Reforms of criminal provisions, repealing detention stores of the third type and other provisions’. The first is Mr Fortsakis Theodoros. Mr. Dean, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. You surprised me, because for the first time since I came to this House, for three months, we are just beginning on time. It's a very pleasant surprise. After what has been said, ladies and gentlemen, since this morning, I will be shorter, because I do not want to repeat what has already been said. A lot has been said. I agree very much with the previous speakers, not only in the New Democracy but also others from both the Potami and the PASOK. A lot of things have been said, very well. You will allow me to focus on four points. The first is to try to remind you of what "purpose" means in Greek criminal law and how we understand it. I hear the idea that the sentence is intended to resocialise the sentenced person. Of course, the reintegration of the one condemned in society is extremely important. But I remind everyone that this is not the first character of the sentence. We learned from the first year of the university that the sentence is a malum, as Grotius said, a bad one, which is imposed - as a malum, as a bad one - on the one who, with his responsibility, for isolates him from society, to set him against his responsibility, to set an example in society and then, when he has shown himself to be indefensible, to reintegrating him gradually into the society from which he was cut off. This function of the sentence is extremely important. It's not the function of a sentence that matchs revenge. It is the function of a sentence of a pedagogical nature and a positive expression, which, on the one hand, is aimed at society in general - it is general prevention - and on the other hand - special prevention. He must have done so when he proceeds to weight costs and benefits from what he has committed, to draw a negative conclusion to his action and to refrain from being criminalised. I fear that what the bill presents to us as solutions does not reflect the classic perception of the sentence as we have learned it and nor is it aimed at resocialising the individual. We do not, on the one hand, have the punishment and pedagogical character of the sentence or, on the other hand, we have the resocialisation of the subject. And I'll explain on that. However, I would also like to remind you that the imposition of the penalty is based on the principle of legality. The Constitution is too strict. The law provides for what behaviour is considered to be criminal. The law provides for the penalty imposed but also for the procedure under which it is imposed. The judicial decision shall include the measurement of the sentence. The way in which the sentence imposed is adapted to make it beneficial both to society and to the convicted person is once again specified in the law. When the legislator, as we do today, intervenes in the issues of punishment, actually interferes with a judicial decision. And he can do it, but under very specific conditions. It can do so when its purpose is to serve better the general framework within which the penalty is imposed. I now come to the second point. Here we have two major categories which are granted favourable treatment, without showing whether this favourable treatment can be explained by the purpose to be achieved by the penalty. We have first - first - the dismissal of sentenced persons for lack of space in prisons with horizontal dismissal, that is without considering whether and what responsibility each bears and whether and how everyone with his or her personality is ready to leave prison and get back into society. The excuse invoked by the bill, namely that our prisons are overcrowded and that our treatment of convicted ones is not worthy of a civilised society, can be accurate. Maybe that's the way things are. That's why all governments are to blame until today. We are all to blame for this situation. But that is no reason for the prisons to open up and come out of the prisons without any particular reason for them to move freely into our state while they have been convicted. So, to understand well, if we miss schools tomorrow, we're suddenly going to say that some classes aren't going to school this year? Or if we miss hospitals, will we suddenly say that some patients aren't going to hospitals? The same thing applies to prison. Because we are incapable of organising our prisons, will we say 'open prisons for prisoners to go on the road'? This can't be done like this. If we want to do this, we have to do this with a specific study so that we know who the prisoners are who will be fired. Has each individual been examined separately, so as to know whether the individual in question is able to re-enter or whether the crime he has committed is such as to justify such reintegration and dismissal? Is the resonance that this dismissal will have on the social side? Unfortunately, there are no such studies. And I am very surprised that such a serious professor, such as the Minister responsible, has brought such a rough and ideological bill to a debate. There is neither a single study nor a single social measure, to see what the impact on society will be on dismissal. Third point. The same and worse apply to dismissal for health reasons. Dismissal for health reasons is justified not horizontally by an automation which affects both legal certainty and the rule of law. Because when someone has a disability of 50% or 67% or 80%, it does not mean that he is unable to commit a crime. We should know whether this is an disability which makes him incapable of committing a crime. If she has dementia, for example, or if she has a mental illness, I understand that. But if he does not have and is capable of committing a crime, why should he be fired from prison? I would like to add to this that we should realise that we cannot in any way underestimate the obligation of the legislator to comply with the standards laid down by the Constitution and, in particular, the principle of legality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The provision on dismissal of 80% of those with a disability is obviously photographic. Photographic means that it has been carried out in the face of a specific condemned person and has been made in the light of the pressures that the government has today received from specific areas. All this has been said and I will not repeat it. It is clear, however, that in so far as the regulation is photographic, and in so far as this arrangement is a back-up to a requirement, which is obviously abusive and illegal, it is unacceptable. I would like to end with a fourth point, following my reference to the dismissal of convicted persons for lack of space and dismissal for health reasons, by referring to the general context in which the current bill is included. The occupations at the university and in other public places, which have made the center of Athens lawlessness, the economic migrants who come here and leave them unlovingly homeless and unholy in the center of Athens, the general policy of retreat, which encourages them to insist, shows that this bill also forms part of a broader context which unfortunately leads us to legislate ideologically and without study. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] If there were a study on matters, we would have seen that of the 12 and a half thousand prisoners we have in prison, while we have about nine and a half thousand positions, we could have fired almost 40%, but we would have fired those who, in fact, could go out of prison, go back to society, not having committed serious crimes, such as those we are actually amputating and insisting on the category of drug addicts, who need great help. That was said before and I will not repeat it. Unfortunately, the bill does not follow this path of strengthening rehab and acknowledging that there was a rehab. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in less than half a minute. The same goes for the Cuddal who has two and a half thousand prisoners. He could and should have half the people he's built to have if the drug addicts had left there and he was helped to disarm and join programs. It is a pity that a draft law on justice comes so roughly and it is a pity that studies and analyses do not precede that the measures proposed are measures based on serious preparation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u3	I would ask Mr Christos Karayannides to take the floor. Because I know what it means to expect a Member from this morning until now, it is not at all pleasant to ring the bell all the time or - much worse - to close the microphone. I would like to ask you, because at the latest, as you have heard and agreed, at 21.00, the vote will take place at the beginning, not to embarrass me to speak as much of you as possible. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. There are two lines in the Chamber today. And since he likes the Civic Opposition to draw dividing lines, I'll do the same. Today in the Chamber there are two lines of which one says that the penalty is a deprivation of freedom for a violation made by a Greek citizen and the other line says that the penalty is revenge, torture and ultimately death. You have acceded to it as a New Democracy, at least since the debate I have seen so far. Because otherwise it cannot be understood that it is possible to stick to a position that the prisons have to remain the same, regardless of whether there are disabled, sick, ultra-liberal children in these prisons. The concept of imprisonment removes the citizen's right to freedom. He doesn't take away any other right. It does not remove any individual rights it has as a citizen. In this sense, therefore, I cannot understand the conflict that is taking place for communications, although I believe that many Members of the New Democracy believe what is being said already. And to remind you of a few things - because they may be several new MPs, but there are many older Members - sensitivity, forgiveness, love is not a la carte. So I read to you: "In the light of the prevailing moral and Christian principles and on the basis of the oblivious tradition of Greek tradition, the penalty must not be designed to eliminate the condemnation but to improve it and restore it to society." This is a question of seven New Democracy MPs in 1990. Is it a high moral defiance of the crime the pigeons have committed? Is it a great political indifference to the crime the pigeons have committed? So why do you have a la carte sensitivity? Why did they have to go out and others didn't? Why is your love and forgiveness, according to Christianity, of which you warmly declare faithful, has its own versions? Is love for you all over the world or for some? To you love, does forgiveness apply to everyone or some must be exempted from this forgiveness? So to speak on political criteria. Second element. Statement by Konstantinos Mitsotakis in Parliament in 1996: "In the consciousness of the Greek people, the view of grace has matured. Democracy is not at risk from them and he knows to forgive." Again for the Aprilians. In 1996 due diligence had matured. In 2015, what happened? Has she been rotten? Did you forget about grace? So to speak with arguments that do not strengthen civil war situations, they do not terrorise the world, they do not behave as a 'bulk' to people who have an offense and have been punished for that and remember what you have said in the past. Remember, too, that 2008 - and it is one of the dozens of cases that people have lost their lives in prisons - the European Court of Justice has forced the Greek Government to leave a prisoner, because it has led him to a metastatic stage of cancer that was not returning. That prisoner died. Are you going to apologize for that? Are you going to apologize for the people in prison who got sick because of the prison conditions and lost their lives? Are you interested in these people or simply because they have committed a crime belong to a lower class of people? There's a side loss and we're asking for prison decongestion and another reason. It is not only the prisoners, whose overpaid to the Greek prisons are 133%, the first in the European Union, but they are the temporary prisoners and prisoners convicted of police officers. You've ever made your life a visit to the A.T. Omonoia, P.T. Cluster, A.T. Acropolis? Of course not. Let me just tell you that at the A.T. Homony there were people living in concrete beds for eighteen months. This is your state, this is your culture and this democracy you are ambassadors to. On the "Caulomont", I will read you three different criticisms from terrorists and lovers of violence and anarchy. 'The plenary considers that this measure serves purely communication purposes of the current context, because it is inappropriate to give solutions to the recent acts of violence that have been experienced in the overall disapproval of society.' Meeting of the presidents of the country's legal associations. Do you have anything to say about that? You have to say that these people are terrorists, lovers of violence and anarchy? You are telling your colleagues what you say to us today. Secondly, this is to cover the State's long-term incapacity to solve social problems without exception. It is the alibi to incompetence and the quality of justice goes down. Is the peer professor of Criminal Law, Yannis Manoledakis, a lover of violence and anarchy? Thirdly, at the time, the President of the Athens Bar Association and the plenary Dimitris Paxinos spoke about communication games that are being played in order to impress public opinion and stressed that the existing legislative framework is sufficient to deal with the most serious offences. At the end of the event he made a hood and said that if necessary, he will protest with it in the House. You should go arrest him. That's your policy. This future is bound if you ever come to power again. Well, in order to cut the joke, the "cooper" has to be abolished, the DNA in the way it is taken has to be abolished and the relatives of the terrorists cannot be dragged to prison, because they're just family or friends of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u5	I would ask Mr. Athanasios to come to Stepma. Until Mr Athanasios comes, I, Mr Karayannides, will strictly observe the Rules of Procedure, I shall not copy the President. But I reserve it when I'm underneath answering you from the Member's seat for 1990 and the HR. Omonoia. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law has recently been affected and the division of powers, which is the basis of the rule of law, is being dismantled. The Minister of Justice with the provisions of the bill and the amendment to Article 282 below, which I shall refer to below, releases dangerous criminals. The Minister of National Defence threatens to send jihadists to the countries of the European Union. The Deputy Minister for Civil Protection is indifferent to the occupations of public spaces and the Minister for the Interior does not allow the application of Article 334(2) of the Criminal Code on the disruption of home peace. I am saying paragraph 3, because it has been misguided, it does not need to be indicted in paragraph 3, because it concerns a public building. So we have a complete discrimination of powers, and I wonder where we are driving with the dissolution of the fundamental provisions of the Constitution. The sole responsibility lies with the Prime Minister, who is unable to impose on himself or is in a position to do so, because he is disoriented by the impossibility of the government to deal with the burning issues of the country, even though the Minister responsible has asked him to defend the legitimacy. For you, however, these are terror or terrorism. Minister of Justice - Mr. Minister has not come - but you have not told us - although I asked you twice in committee - how you vision the functions of the First and Second press prisons, how you will streamline them, how you will democratise them, how you will modernise them. Didn't you also tell us why the European countries have them? Do the Nordic countries, Italy, Spain and France have a democratic deficit? I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the type III prisons we have introduced are the softest form in Europe. All European countries have high-security prisons and we have chosen the mildest, a alloy of Italian and Scandinavian originals. It was such that the government's intention to bring this bill, which put it into consultation for only two days, and after great pressure there were seven days. The corresponding draft law on the highest security prisons, on which the n was passed. 4274/2014, we had it in consultation three months, from 17 March to 19 June 2014. Mr Voutsis, Minister for Foreign Affairs, told the committee the other day that the provisions of the bill were SYRIZA's positions for years and are not photographic. But if that is the case, Minister, if that is the case, then why are you bringing the bill in the very brief consultation I have mentioned, much more so that with Amendment No 43 and a special 5 of 9 April 2015 on Article 282 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to which I shall refer, are you bringing arrangements? If you had a sincere decision, why didn't you include it in the bill? Has this amendment been the result of the pressure exerted by occupations? Now for the articles of the bill, I'll talk if I have time, or I'll see you tomorrow. I told the committee. Here I should like to refer to two points. Extensive reference was made this morning by Minister of Justice at Law 2408/1996. It happened then that I was head of the courtroom and I had worked out the law and made comments. It has nothing to do with this legislation, the legislation you are bringing to Parliament today. Law 2408/1996 stipulates for the first time who are offenders. It regulates the issues of the conversion of sentences under Article 82 of the Criminal Code. It regulates foreign matters referred to in Article 74(1) in conjunction with Article 99(2) of the Criminal Code. It introduces, for the first time, the condition of dismissal by means of a modern regulation, Paragraph 105(1) for dismissal on the ground. Excuse me if I get a little tired of the repetitions, I have a heavy virion. It regulates questions of interrogation and preliminary investigation for the first time that have nothing to do with the legislation, Articles 101, 111, 114, 273, 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It restricts temporary detention only for felony. It has issues of a Penal Code of Law 1851/1989 and of course regulates the irresponsible sentences of article 79 of Law 5960/1933 which is the well-known cheque. What does all this have to do with the legislation under discussion, which has a general amnesty for various criminals? I would like to say a few words about the hoods before I say the rest. Listen, hoods are not a peculiar offence. That's a mistake. When someone makes a hooded offence, it's a grim case. Assuming that two perpetrators go and break a window, they cause a damage of foreign property and one wears a hood and the other does not wear, then it is a aggravating case and the penalty to a degree is a little heavier than the previous one. Why should this provision be abolished when someone is causing hooded destruction? I have to tell you this: Mergers and marches are being made to demand labour rights, social rights and individual rights for the dissemination of ideas and principles. They are not to engage in disasters and plundering those who do not wear hood. It's the other name. What kind of name would it be? Only a person’s involvement in a course without committing a crime was a peculiar sign that he was punished. This is not what this is all about. It's a grim case. It's just things. Mr President, just a moment to read something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u7	You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u8	Wait a minute, I won't talk anymore. I would like to read to you something about reducing penalties by the legislator. Please take care of it. "You are systemically turning the exception law into a rule, providing for derogations to the penitentiary treatment of the detainees and intervening in the execution of the sentences imposed by the courts. You imposed your own stubborn and deeply reactionary perception, which ignores the real criminal deception of certain behaviours, as determined by the penalty. So you violate the independence of justice, you destroy the principle of individualisation of the sentence and cancel its judicial purpose, i.e. penitentiary and reintegration." Who says that? Ms. Konstantopoulou in my bill on the criminal treatment of public abusers. And now you're coming and undoing it. At the same time, such discounts catalyse the state's criminal claim. Mr. Kontonis, rapporteur at the time, said that "it is not possible to punish more than ten years of imprisonment by imprisonment. That's what's happening now. We have too many reservations on this subject and so on. Finally, I will say one more thing to see the contradictions of your party. Is the ANE representative here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u9	I'm here, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u10	Listen, sir, what was your party's official position when we voted on the highest security prisons. I can't see these obidial transformations. Mrs Chrysosvelloni, rapporteur at the time, said that "on Article 1, we, the Independent Greeks, are in favour of their creation. For the purposes of Article 12, we shall say'represent', as we consider it to be characterized by excessive galantomy. It also says that "it is not possible to create cases of the Luvaris type". As you will remember, Luvaris is an Olympiacos spokesman, who put a collar in order to get a better deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u11	Mr Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u12	That's what Mrs. Chrysovelonis said. That was the official line of ANELs, and I wonder today about this conversion. I have too much to say about the bill. Perhaps I will be given time tomorrow, Mr President, to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u13	You'll be given time tomorrow. The speakers will certainly be fewer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u14	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Georgios and immediately thereafter to Mr Santorini, who has announced them, there has been an issue which I would like to raise in your mind. Mr Cassidiaris attended the Conference of Presidents, with his permission of course from the competent prosecutor, and raised a matter with the President and with the President in the Conference of Presidents. Because he must have returned to prison in an hour and because he has a number 41, he asked if he could, be preceded, to be in prison when he is allowed to be out before he returns there. The President rightly told him that this is a practice that is being carried out in the sense of mutual transfer. But we didn't have the list. Such a matter of mutual transfer cannot exist because there is no prior to the number 41 Member of the Golden Dawn with which Mr Casiniris could change. The only way, therefore, to speak within the next hour before Mr Cassidy returns to prison is therefore just - this is the proposal I make to you - if there is a unanimous decision of Parliament to interfere with Mr Cassidy after four, five colleagues who will speak so that he can leave in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u16	Intrude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u17	I repeat that it is my own initiative, because the position of the President - and rightly so - was what you heard. Is there a unanimous decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u18	So there is a unanimous decision. Mr. Cassidy, you'll be in your place and I'll call you. I have already announced three colleagues. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill gives us the opportunity to discuss matters within the plenary session which have been in the public debate for a long time, and which each of us has been working on in our debates but have never been the subject of such a wider public debate and a controversy, both political and ideological, as we have been given the opportunity with this bill and, indeed, with specific articles in this draft law, which we all understand have monopolized most of the debate. That's what I'll focus on. I tried, listening to the Minister this morning to analyse the feasibility of the disputed - I will be allowed to express - provisions, to understand his reasoning, his rationale and essentially what they are serving, the reason why he is bringing them to legislate. In relation to the releases, the Minister's main argument was this: because the conditions of detention are not the ones that need to be, which we all know for decades, because we need to show greater humanity to the prisoners, we need to have this legislation for this reason: it has been observed, and it has been a text from a specific book, that the demonstration of humanism is essentially a reason that prevents the criminal from becoming a retreat. It has been observed, he said, that where prisoners had particularly hard conditions of detention then, with their release, they became scholars and other crimes. And a key reason was the harsh conditions of their detention. There is something missing from the Minister, and I want to believe not deliberately. Basically, the legislation that exists refers to a prisoner who was pushed not by incentives under the ordinary criminal law but by ideological motives. And the one who was motivated in his criminal act by ideological motives, I do not think that any demonstration of humanism will prevent him from becoming submissive when possible. What is essentially the case with this legislation and this provision: we give the legislature the opportunity to come, to annul and alter a judicial decision. The creation of the sentence, and in particular its duration, is not an area of uncontrolled choice of the legislature but a part of the judicial decision. Retrospective intervention by the legislator, unilaterally, without limitations and exceptions, depending on the nature and gravity of the crime or the nature of the offence, and a reduction in the time when the sentence was produced, shall be tantamount to annulment of the judgments imposing them. Most of the bodies that actually came to the committee may have agreed with most of the bill, but the position of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors in relation to these provisions is crucial. And their position was clear at the very first moment, not just negative, but they said in a formal manner that the possibility of release is essentially an interference in the feasibility and aiming for a judicial decision, because it is a horizontal regulation which does not set the criteria which a judge or a judicial board had to assess in any case in each individual case. The Minister referred to something else this morning. Wanting to justify the noise that has been heard about the dialogue that has actually been made with prisoners, he referred to Athanasios Kanelopoulos, the Minister of Justice 1990-1991, who says, "do something like that in a case of prisoner uprising and then legislated it is not bad". Of course, it is not wrong for a Minister to try either himself or through his advisers to calm down a rebellion. But I must remind you that Athanasios Canelopoulos with two legislations, 18.97/1990 and 19.77/1991 do you know what he legislated? It was a tragic irony which was heard by the Minister today by the name of the late Athanasios Kanelopoulos in here. It therefore legislated "Award and assistance for victims of terrorism and other amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure", the first provision I mentioned. And the second law on the protection of suffering from a violent incident and victims of terrorists. These were legislated in 1990 and 1991 by Athanasios Kanellopoulou. Now, just a word about the high security prisons. They are not only serving the issue of the security of all citizens by limiting the possibility of escaping detention for those who are judged to be particularly dangerous. They're doing something else, which we're leaving right now. The fact is that in a prison where there is no special wing for dangerous criminals, they can ultimately be imposed on everyone else and effectively control a prison. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. I would accept what the Minister is bringing today, not all the dangerous prisoners together. But today, at the same time as this provision, it also had to provide for the creation of a wing for dangerous criminals in three - four of the penitentiaries that exist and operate. Let it not be just one thing that will have them all. I think it should now be brought to it, today, at the same time, because prisons are now in control of dangerous criminals. And a bet, it's over. With the vote of the bill, the occupations will be over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u20	Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor. Mr Cassidy will follow after your unanimous decision and the Minister for the Interior will ask me to speak. We have arranged not to use all the time to make it easier for colleagues. Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days there has been a show of terror, fear-sharing and threats to possible democratic diversions and all that with the well-known enthusiasm, that SYRIZA is backing up terrorists and hoodiers. We have heard them and heard them all the time in this Chamber. I wonder, for once again, why the Civic Opposition - not only - and systemic media, in good cooperation, choose to bet again on this intimidation scenario. Didn't he teach you anything about the recent election result? Did you not understand the outcry of citizens for more democracy, for the protection of human rights and for the strengthening of the rule of law? We have heard, of course, from PASOK, from Mr Gregorakos that they are not voting for the bill because it is a negotiation product, and indeed Mr Gregorakos said that if we withdraw it and stop the occupations, they will vote for it. So you indirectly admit that the bill is good. Why don't you vote for it? Is that a whim? So let me ask the other side. The situation in Greek prisons does not fit in a European country. It does not fit the European acquis, which you so often invoke. Why, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard in the very important and fertile debate with the bodies in the committee, when in the nine thousand eight hundred people infrastructure prisons there are twelve thousand stacked people, when at the Korydalou Hospital, where its capacity is seventy people with full staff, we have two hundred people in detention with a minimum of staff, when we have a record of isovirates throughout Europe, where is the European acquis? Truly, how proud Europeans can we be in these detention conditions, when we already have eleven convictions since 2011 for violating Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and still a hundred and ninety-one are pending? How proud can we be when the committee against torture has only made six public statements, one of which for our country and the other five, three for Russia - Chechnya - and two for Turkey? Are we proud Europeans for all this? Or are we using the term European identity la cart, where it is of interest to us? We, therefore, say with this bill that we are taking the first steps towards dealing with the out-of-control situation in Greek prisons and doing so with the principles of humanism, the protection of human dignity and the security of society. The logic of a democratic penitentiary, which must be our aim, must be to support, reintegration, justice, realism, redress and not to exterminate the prisoner, and that is why we are legislating today and calling on you to vote in favour. First of all, as regards press III prisons, it is obvious that it was an election term of the previous government. Other high security prisons and other white cells. No man, no person in prison should be treated differently, depending on the nature, gravity or deceptiveness of his offense. One cannot live in tougher terms, be deprived of basic human rights because he is a villain. After all, forty students from last autumn had explained why these prisons are unconstitutional. The prisoner is punished by a rule of law by his incarceration and not by his moral and physical invasion. The arrangements for minors introduced by this bill are very important. A chronic social demand for scientists is being implemented and not just. The detention of minors is effectively abolished and replaced by reformist and educational measures. It is incomprehensible that minors are actually brought into the arms of crime, because that is what is happening to date and we all know it very well. For sensitive social groups, the bill promotes the dismissal of vulnerable groups, such as older people, of people with serious health problems. Conditional dismissal, not amnesty, as you say. Conditional dismissal, I repeat. Besides, there is no death penalty in our country and it is good that the practice of the death penalty does not apply from our penitentiary system a little - a little, a day for some prisoners. It is also very important that this bill gives substantial meaning and opportunity to apply to previous legislation which has approved the treatment and dismantling of drug addicts. In conclusion, and with the picture I see in the Chamber on the part of the Vice-President and, in particular, the Major, I would just like to say that it is a pity, because your governance has brought about a bad penitentiary system in a state of dissolution. It is a pity for our country that has so many European convictions about the detention situation in prisons. It is a pity for this society that it does not deserve an Opposition calling for the slow and tortured humiliation and extermination of the prisoners, without a trace of reason and humanity. I wonder, indeed, if the spirit and principles of European Enlightenment govern your political philosophy or what you see is the 'Mesonday Express' in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u22	Mr. Cassidy has the floor. The Minister will be followed by two colleagues from SYRIZA, Mrs Lyberakis, who has not spoken as a parliamentary representative, and then - I say this for the time to be adjusted by colleagues - Mr Georgiadis, Mr Tassou and Mr Voridis. You have the floor, Mr. Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u23	Let me start by informing you that I am here from irregular to illegal. And to be more specific, I was forbidden by the prosecutor's office to come to Parliament. I made two requests yesterday in one request to be at the Conference of Presidents - which is, of course, closed - and the second request concerned me with this bill, to come, to be seated and to vote. My second request was rejected, on the grounds that it is not my professional status. The Criminal Code provides for public and judicial decisions to be justified. Here we have gross illegality, a violation not only of individual and civil rights, but of the constitution itself, and it is not possible for the judiciary to enter the core of legislative power and forbid Parliament to operate with three hundred MPs. It is therefore a great hypocrisy here today to talk about prison bills, to make amendments that photographically favour people, at the same time that popular sovereignty has been destroyed in this unacceptable way. I don't know if I'm going to isolation too, going back to prison, because - I repeat - I was not allowed to come here to speak. The Golden Dawn MPs, who represent the third political party in the country, are experiencing this craving. These are, of course, illegal decisions and, in this way, the prosecutor himself tells me, 'you can go to the Library Committee of the Parliament, but you cannot go when major national issues are discussed and place yourself'. This is why this illegal persecution has been persecuted against my party, against the third political party in the country. The only reason is not to hear the voice of truth inside the House. There is a complicity between all the political parties in this crime that is being committed to the detriment of popular sovereignty. You were all aware of the construction that has been set up by a specific circuit of the previous government. You had all seen the form of Baltaku, what he called it accurately and in detail the day my immunity came, and then I was led to prison. The Minister, Mr Voutsis, is here, who has been in honour for this matter and has said that when Members are called in interrogation for a hunting weapon that has been licensed, it seems that there is a background here. This background certainly existed and was fully confirmed when the former Prime Minister's personal orders were released on the Internet to judges. All this is well known. So whoever consented to this crime is accomplice and all the others on the channels are fairy tales. You have every right to say your stories on the channels, but no one can use the words Constitution and democracy, because it is humiliating to hear these two words at the same time as Members are being held illegally in prison on political orders. This morning the issue of quorum was discussed in Parliament's Chamber and the President of Parliament was interrupted and he was right to interrupt. But how can we talk about a quorum, how can we talk about Parliament's legislative work, when fewer than three hundred legislate? For a year and a half, the Constitution has been being dismantled this way. In fact, we also had a specific request for a roll-call vote by fifteen Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, and we were not here to support this request by our presence and thus by means of a decision of the judiciary the functioning of this Parliament was hampered. The legislator is very specific. Article 134 of the Criminal Code has provided for what the penalty for such a crime is. He has predicted that a corrupt government can imprison MP opponents. So anyone involved in this crime - in accordance with Rule 134 of the Criminal Code - that is to say, who, based on his position in the state is blocking the functioning of the parliament is even sentenced to life in prison. The Minister was differentiated from this punctuality, which has been happening to this day. It was differentiated and he said that Members should certainly come to the critical bills. I have to add that the Constitution does not make any discounts on bills critically and non-critically. Parliament's function is crucial and the Constitution requires that it operate with three hundred. With regard to the draft legislation which is being discussed today, I consider myself competent to talk about it, about all the manner in which all this wrongdoing gang operates. I say this because Minister Athanasios, the instigator of this building, is here, who, once again, according to his Government Secretary-General, intervened in the work of judicial authority and closed us in prison and if he objected, to sue Mr Baltako but did not give us any explanation for the Samaras mandate in court. He went to a committee and said you didn't tell us who his interlocutor was. So they caught Samara robbing a bank, and they don't know who took him with the engine and they left. That is why he must not be prosecuted. But all these issues will come to a debate in Parliament on a pre-dated order. The Golden Dawn Group will bring them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u24	Do you believe what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u25	Of course I do. The Secretary-General of the Government has said so. You can sue him if he's lying. You said yourself that you were calling the investigators' chief to see how the situation is going. What is it? "MEGA CHANNEL" is the head of the interrogators to see how the situation is going?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u26	No dialogue is allowed, Mr. Cassier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u27	Your crimes are data. There's too much evidence. When you intervened, when you were sent by Mr. Birbos to intervene, the director of your office and to speak to hotels with specific eats, who referred the Golden Dawn, even though the suggestion was exonerating. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Leave it, Minister of Justice, for battering the image of justice. If you have any objections to my words, press charges on Mr Baltako. You didn't sue. You have made Mrs Gotzamani the Ice Award Prosecutor get a proclamation, a sultan charm, any Member who shows evidence and documentary evidence to go to jail! That's the truth. The entire Greek people know her. So I'm continuing for the bill. I am in charge of speaking, yes, because you have condemned me, with the agreement of all the parties, and while there is nothing at all against me and other Members. I was personally protected by character. For the first time in time a citizen is imprisoned because of his character, because - he says - I am disgusting. How disgusting can I be to see here in front of my persecutor, my chief-in-law, the one who has set up a whole project at the expense of my party and remains calm? How disgusting and nervous can I be, as the relevant advisor for my temporary detention presents me? And yet I'm in jail because of character! Well, I have an image of the prisons, very limited. Unfortunately, this bill is doomed to failure. If it is not what our Parliamentary representative said at noon, if the prisons are not deported through the expulsion of those foreigners who are serving a sentence in Greece, there is no hope for our penitentiary system. Unfortunately, as good intentions as this Minister and other ministers have in the past - as far as I know he is a university professor and a university professor have a completely different picture of the situation - he cannot know how the penitentiary system works. It's like having a lawyer do nuclear physics experiments. That is why we believe that these interventions will fail, apart from the fact that we consider them to be photographic provisions and condemn them unequivocally. It is unacceptable that photographic provisions and amendments should be made. As the New Democracy has done, photographic amendments to rid bankers are now being done by the present government to relieve terrorists. In both cases this procedure is unacceptable and we denounce it in any case. The New Democracy cannot, of course, speak of the friendly relations that SYRIZA has with terrorism, because we have heard that as well. Under no circumstances can it speak because on the days of the New Democracy, very recently, on November 1, 2013, two young members of my party were murdered in a manly way by some male killers, two young Greeks, two young members of my party. And what about this case? I have to make a complaint very heavy. Not only was the dossier buried but it contacted me at first - as soon as the incident occurred - the then Commander of the Anti-terrorism Agency, Zoite, who was the government's favourite Samara - Venizelos and asked me to give him the hard drive with the horrific television footage of the cold-blooded murder so as not to pass the weekend and the terrorists are fleeing. We gave it right away. That murder took place Friday night. And he called me on the phone Monday afternoon and said: "Mr. MEP, can you send us a technician to open the hard drive, why can't we watch the video?" It's been three days. All the anti-terrorists had gone to coffee and the killers were still on the loose today! That's what the New Democracy started with. This tolerance continues even today. The hoodmen are making incidents right now in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u28	Mr. Cassidiari, with the tolerance of colleagues you have intervened. You've already spoken for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u29	Of course, you're right. I'll be done. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u30	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u31	I denounce the incidents currently taking place in the Constitution. The police have a passive attitude following political orders. These are unacceptable phenomena. The same and worse it was in the New Democracy. Six months were the conquests. Law school was in it for months. The students of the New Democracy Rule of Law have lost their examination. I repeat that SYRIZA and New Democracy are not differentiated into anything or the Memorandum - you will see it very soon - and for the Lagard list, very recently your Minister told us that there is no way of getting money out of there. And that is why the Golden Dawn is being persecuted, because the Golden Dawn is horizontally salivating the political system of power, and that is why we accept this war from all parties. That's why we're illegally imprisoned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u32	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Nikos Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify a few points. First of all, I have heard Mr Venizelos again today, with a torrential reason, warn against plans which the government may have to put the country on the rocks, so that there will be deadlocks, so that there will be no agreement, no honest or less honest compromise, etc. This is an unacceptable risk, which sent messages and signals outwards more than towards the interior of the country, which is incomprehensible. It has as much time as Mr Venizelos and anyone else who wants the opposition to say to the Greek Government today what to do. Do we have to retreat in relation to wages, pensions, allowances, VAT, labour relations, the four - five issues that we have raised and which were also in Hardouvel's email, and which the previous government has not dared to bring them to Parliament? It's a well-known story. Tell us directly and clearly, and not with scripts, with plan B, with plan D, which party from here is currently recommending to the government, in view of the genuinely difficult moment that we are here as a country, to retreat to all of these or some of these issues, so that a solution can be found to Mr Shoeble's and the lenders' cheques. That is the only political question that exists. It is not possible for the other person to speak twenty minutes and not talk about it but politics. I say this to the next, and because some people will talk again, I say it and provoke an important debate. Tell us what to do. A second theme - beating! - yesterday I heard it at the "MEGA" and it was right, if any plane had fallen with four hundred Westerners - us from here, etc. - for one week it would be a one-thematic topic in all the world's newsletters. Three hundred immigrants two days ago were drowned and no one was involved. And there are three and a half thousand drowning in 2014 in the Mediterranean and there are some millions of people stacked in Turkey and Jordan. I don't want to say more than a step of the House. Who told you about 'open borders'? Others opened the border to leave Greeks outside, two hundred thousand immigrants in crisis conditions. There was no such policy at the border from here. Forty-three thousand registered people entered in 2013, seventy-two thousand in 2014, and now we can actually go to double the year in 2015, due to the huge refugee current due to the Syrian case, which is normal refugees. And in any case, if we have achieved something these days - and I also need to honour the Minister for Migration for this - they are all, from 'pads' to normal people, not to talk about illegal immigrants but to talk about refugees, irregular immigrants, people without papers, etc. This is a great success. That is what we have achieved in the debate that is taking place. And so we need cross-party and national treatment, with a national plan on this issue. And we do what we need to do without the channels above us and with municipalities and with regions and with police and with all the forces that exist and we want all the parties together to agree on this big issue, which has emerged at our borders. I now come to the specific issues of the bill. I would like to make it clear that our party's positions have not been expressed in theory, because, many times, there are positions which we have recorded as programming positions - but in the sense that we have been opposed here to each of these issues - on these points are the corpus of the positions which are included in the bill and in the amendments - very clearly, for years now - and there are other issues which do not go into this bill and we hope they will be put into a next bill. Secondly, do not say again that this government is politicizing and legislating in dictatorial terms. For two years - and I could do so tomorrow, if you will - I would like to bring you information - from the previous government of Samaras - I am not saying Samaras - PASOK in this respect and you will understand - he was dominating all the issues relating to the jurisprudence system on the basis of the agenda of the Lords of the Golden Dawn, for which he himself thought they were following. Everything, there is no question that was raised by the Golden Dawn and in which, above all, no emblems were dealt with and the previous government has been legislating for two years. I challenge you to bring the evidence. Just one reminder. Citizenship, which comes - and the bill is posted - for the children of those born here, etc. - Mr. Athanasios is now away - was he one of the first bills of government, which hastened by popping up and giving tests - so where and to which audience? - to freeze the Ragosi Act and stayed the children where they stayed. So don't scratch on who's dictating and how he's legislating, etc. Fourthly, the 'no dialogue' principle does not apply to democracy. Forget it. See the entire history of relations between the political system in Western Europe in the difficult years of previous decades with convicted criminals or convicted of acts of terrorism. Relationships, I don't mean interacting or suspects. They're open channels. They're written and recorded, these are known. As far as the state and autonomy are concerned - because I heard a state theory this morning - the state is confusing conflicts. It is not an instrument and a lever of violence and a challenge of blood and vengeance. The state also creates consensus. Around the state, the limits of socio-political and class conflicts are shaped, the limits within which the law and legislation each time with its expanded, broadening and absolute concepts are applied. It is much more complex than saying who is defending the state and remembering helmets, shields, broken heads. So the Minister of Justice referred to three prominent figures from the Justice Ministers in decades past, how they legislated and found the contact of a dialogue with society and the problems that were created even within prisons. This dialogue, this debate cannot be banned by anyone and cannot be framed. Let me tell you that there have been in the morning - I want to be direct - extremely divisive, divisive, netting logic, a crescendo of literally risky. We don't have any guilt. What Mr Kikilias said - he is a young man - will accompany him, that is, within SYRIZA, at his core, there is ideological affinity with terrorism, etc. You know what? We as a whole - this party, this Left - and as individuals each from here in and out we have given tests one - one in the days of Postpopulation the oldest, one - in the weeks and months, the youngest in the public space transparently. They all know what we've done. You all know what we did. These tests we have given allow us to be bold enough to say that we have a sensitivity, which is not a kart. One gentleman said this morning: 'Why didn't you negotiate' - he says - 'with women in the Thebes prison, with the other cases of vulnerable groups in there? You have gone and discussed with the terrorists!' In hospitals, in prisons, in all these areas, in all vulnerable groups, in and out of prisons, the presence of our own forces, our own space, has been a point of reference over these years and a point of hope, courage and reform and democratic reform of the penitentiary system. These are the facts and you know them very well. In this sense, we have no guilt. Respect doesn't just mean vengeful maniac. It means respect for all of us, and I want to be very clear. There are no yours and our dead. There are no victims and immortalities from here and there, which are eternally and over time from the Civil War, until now, will separate these factions. Get out of this mentality as fast as possible. They are unacceptable settlings. National reconciliation in our country has been achieved through political areas, large consensus, social and political consensus, which have made political parties and large political figures, but also by means of struggles, social struggles, the reconstructing of collective historical memory, and this cannot be destroyed, it cannot be reversed. In this sense, I cannot understand that you are asking us to exclude from measures of obedience and defendants and convicted of terrorist acts. Previously, I had told you in plenary - and I also told the committee - that all the political forces and the Left in highly minority positions - I mean post-military in the past decades and in 1980 and 1990 - did not object when they were being driven because of irresponsible harm, because of health at home restrictions, the building of another type of prison, the release of prisons and dozens of heavily condemned in Greek prisons, such as the hunger primates, the convicted because of economic crimes and others. But we are not netting ourselves, because our route has been crystal clear, and I mean our ideological, worthy route. I don't raise anyone personally, and I think it's clear. Our route has been crystal clear and then now and in all cases and on all sides. The issue of humanism is crucial. We cannot accept that the death penalty will return to Greece in the name of any real cause, any reasonable sensitivity, but any political pretext at the end. So this terror and terrorism that has been developed, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this very interesting bill which opens up issues - for which nothing has been mentioned in the public space for fifteen days, only the case with regard to the continuation of elaboration in the way the Savvas Xiros sentence is envisaged - is a democratic deficit. It is not allowed, when such crucial issues are opened, to cover them through this terrorism. The mirror of our society, the penitentiary, has been making a hideous picture for many years - and you know it - while the judiciary is generally in a progressive direction, it is an open system that has points and elements that can be changed in an open direction. Nevertheless, the penitentiary system leads to an literally hideous landscape. Destination, tolerance, equality, humanity, feeling of law, humanization of structures and conditions, all of this builds democratic sensitivities and builds the greatness of democracy. Then there is democracy really a system that can respond effectively to those who deny it, fight it, even murder its leading executives politically and socially, when it can socially and politically and overall, self-determining in a collective memory for the historical circles that it forms and which it closes - an extremely interesting issue in crisis conditions - to see with another eye and with the eye of tolerance, obedience, with the open eye of real reform and not the stereotypes of a repeated time-long and provoking civilisation in words and at some point and through actions. That logic will be avoided. This logic has been defeated multiplely. The previous government began its work with the huge success of the evacuation of Villa Amalia. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall end. It went on for two years to pursue a policy which was essentially based on the most extreme right-wing concepts in the country for the so-called 'law and order' and for zero tolerance. It was a mistake and, indeed, in the conditions of social crisis that we lived in. At some point, you could also have evidence for 2012, 2013, 2014, in 2015, to discuss them in committee, how many seizures have been made and against which there have been, how many injuries there have been, how many properties have been lost, to see and understand whether today the country, with this open scope and its horizons internationally and in its culture and in the new relationships developed within a fragmented social fabric, lives days of lawlessness, or whether we are equitable to the democratic legislative work, which we are consistently presenting in this House, from this four-year period - five years ago in which austerity, social exclusion was fully linked to anti-democratic practices, with great prevalence to a large degree of police rule in specific situations vis-à-vis the people. This page, ladies and gentlemen, is back. Democracy in our country has been, to an even greater extent, there will be and will come back together with social democracy and a new international position in the country, which will be respected by everyone as sovereign for both its democracy and its achievements and for the effort that it is now making to raise head and not to retire as a vile representative of disgraceful interests who want to lead our country into a neo-colonial situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u34	Where I was about to thank you, Minister, for agreeing to reduce your time, you ate it from the side.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u35	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u36	It's okay. Thank you for at least giving us an update on how many all kinds of immigrants are expected to enter in 2015. You said twice as many as last year, that is a hundred and fifty thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u37	Refugees mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u38	But we need to see what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u39	I'm not criticizing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u40	But they are not immigrants, they are refugees, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u41	Mrs Irootis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin my speech by asking one question: How did neoliberalism and the memorial array of the governments of recent years and even before attempt to strengthen their sovereignty over the workers, the poor, over those who resist and question their policy? A basic weapon for them to be imposed on bodies and consciences was the introduction of an emergency and exclusion status under the pretext of the crisis, a regime that, in order to establish and enforce its policies, had to have some tools. Thus, they became terrorists - and not only in Greece of course - hoodmen, special prisons of the highest security, tightening up all laws so that the threat of hanging over every human being. Neoliberalism is based on authoritarian governance. It has therefore attempted to inspire society the fear, paralyse democracy, dismantle industrial relations, destroy all self-evident welfare to be provided to the citizens. These policies, therefore, go forth with an ideological universe that ends up in human intersections, as we have experienced in the past with the positive women, ends up in hate sermons against immigrants and refugees, ends up in an attempt to terrorise society, of course also in Type III prisons. These are all at the core of our thinking and policy, together with their supporters, the channels - of course with the unimportant, as we have seen - and continue to the same purpose until they, as they think, are destroying the left-wing government and scaring the citizens. What did Mr Samaras, ladies and gentlemen, say in the Easter love message he sent to society? He said that, in other words, he's tearing down his spectacular work. What project? The policies of austerity for the people and the policies of an authoritarian state. These policies, which he and members of his prolongation consider to be central to their extreme right-wing ideology and ideology and to their address to society, because of course they have nothing to propose but a memorial and prison. That is why Mr Samaras said that his policy is being dismantled and that there are again hoodmen, occupations, illegal immigrants everywhere, incidents, and even contacts with terrorists, as he said. Of course, it was not about the terrorism of lenders, which it eventually succumbed to. The real horror of the memorial powers, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Memorandum policy is being dismantled. This is what they are trying to answer, terrorizing the world for supposedly serious dangers. It was attempted before the elections, but fortunately the Greek people decided to answer them in their own way and to restore them. So the left-wing government, on the other hand, is trying to make a cut which does not concern the economic sector and the negotiating sector, but is about justice and the rule of law. In other words, it is about democracy, as the Minister said earlier, which the Left is fighting for a lifetime and we are not backing up as long as the guardians of extreme right-wing and neoliberal authoritarianism do. The bill we are debating today concerns the basic principles that need to be done to modernise the penitentiary system - and it is in fact penalising what it provides for - in order to dismantle prisons, to make conditions human, since the incarcerators have been punished by the law to deprive freedom and not to extermination and undefeitfulness. Of course, the top issue here is the abolition of the prisons of the Greek arrest "Guantanamo", i.e. the Type III prisons. I would like to remind you that the last report by the European Committee for Torture Prevention, which the previous government inhibited in one way, speaks of unacceptable conditions in prisons and refers to the prisons of the Ioannina, a seventy-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-six, in which in 2013 there were two hundred-sixty-two prisoners, in the prisons of passports, two hundred-five-seven-seven, and in which five hundred-sine, ninety-six people were held, while in Komotini, there were thirty-sixty-six-six, thirty-six-six prisoners in unacceptable conditions for a civilised state. A separate chapter in this report, the tragic shortcomings in the health care sector, where the committee finds a deterioration. During her visit to the men's prisons in Korydallos, no full - time doctor was found. The same in the women's prisons of Korydallos, at the Aylona's Special Youth Reservation Shop, as well as in the passport prisons and in Larissa's prisons, where there was no permanent doctor and many other issues. The bill, therefore, comes to answer these and other things that are considered to be elementary. It is also of paramount importance, ladies and gentlemen, to minimise the incarceration of minors and the existence of alternative detention measures to avoid complete social marginalisation. That's why we don't hate the young people who were in violation. I was struck by the fact that the rapporteur, Mr Foyla, spoke about age limits. He could have his own child, my kid tomorrow could be in insaneness. These children want to be reinstated in society as a whole. We also do not hate people who, for various reasons, especially social ones, have come to the use of substances. That's why this bill has a number of arrangements that facilitate the selection of rehab instead of prison. From various positions that I have heard today in this Chamber, it is as if no Member has visited once instantly a penitentiary and speaks of these prisons as if he had not seen the conditions. I'm closing up with a review of the camera device. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, there is a prisoner with bleeding, brain bleeding - if I'm not mistaken and I'm saying it correctly, Mr President, that you are a doctor at the Hospital of Larissa at the neurosurgery clinic. He's been kept every three shifts by outside guards. The doctors did what they had to do with it. This man needs restoration. Should he be released or thrown into a cell to die? In the face of this doctrine of zero tolerance, then, we will continue our work and are sure that in the end we will succeed. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u43	You, Ms. Diminut, I'll really thank you. We won thirty seconds! Mr. Theophanes Kurebes has the floor. Mrs Liberaki and Mrs Georgiadis, Mr Tassou and Mrs Vorides will be followed. Here you go, Mr. Kurebe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the reform of criminal law and the abolition of type III detention shops comes to resolve a number of problems of the country's penitentiary system that run back and not only exposes it internationally, but they also burden the memorial economy with fines of approximately EUR 2 million from the European Court of Justice. Its main objective is not just the humanisation of the penitentiary system but the urgent need to really become a penitentiary and not tormental punishment, as it is today. And unreasonable for the prisoners is both degrading and inhumane. The provisions of this legislation are urgent in order to make it more effective to conduct a country's penitentiary policy within the European Union and to create such conditions of detention, in order to promote the reintegration of detainees through a human and dignified penitentiary system that does not reproduce conditions of violence and infraction. All previous attempts to reform and dismantle prisons - five bills in the last seven years - have fallen into the void. That's not what we say. This is said in the report by the Council of Europe against torture, which since 2011 has highlighted the steady deterioration in the living and treatment of detainees by the dramatic overpopulation of Greek prisons. The situation must be addressed immediately in order to reduce the number of detainees and to enable the government to return by structural changes to the entire system of criminal justice and penal justice. Instead of the debate on the problem, however, it is surprising how today's Census and part of the press stand against the bill, without being put on the record but by launching an attack on terrorism, fear, terroristism and taking the view of individual cases, seeking to disorientate themselves from the substance, which is to improve life in prisons, and not to call for the responsibilities of the previous Memorandum Governments for the treatment of prisons. We certainly have no illusion that those who have implemented an inhuman policy towards the entire Greek society could never show a humanitarian attitude towards prison inmates, against disabled, over-aged, cancerous, minors. At this point, I would like to repeat, in my turn, that thirteen in the fourteen competent bodies in the hearing of the Great Wednesday - from their point of view and understanding, but clearly, they were in favour of the bill. They were representatives of associations of judges, prosecutors, penitentiaries. These are all first-hand bodies who are aware of the situation in prisons. Are they also, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the River, symbolised or related to terrorist organisations? Apart from terror and fear, what exactly do you have to tell us about the substance? What else do you have to tell us from all these years that you have been implementing, rather than a deadlocked policy based on 'gulls' provisions, which criminalised clothing, not the offense, and which affected the rights of citizens and prisoners? You know, prisoners have rights too. Let me remind you that the tactics of fear and destruction, this extreme right-wing tactic, was defeated on 25 January. This government is determined to implement its electoral commitments to prisons as well. Thus, with this bill and the amendments tabled, it abolishes Type III prisons, which only aim to reduce the rights of detainees. It harmonizes the country's legislative framework with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, where it is expressly stated that incarceration by minors should be the last measure of conscientiousness. It regulates prison-related issues of patients, over-aged, disabled people. It treats hospitality - what a term! - foreigners in Greek prisons who have served their sentence but cannot be deported. It addresses the issue of violence within prisons, which is directly dependent on the terrible living conditions. It gives priority to the logic of rehab, rather than the incarceration of dependents. It increases the staff of detention stores. It abolishes the anti-democratic "scoulder", which sent tens of young people to the galleys of the accused only for their dress preferences. It regulates the matter of receiving DNA, protecting the dignity of the citizen according to international organisations. It decriminates trade union action and the claim of fundamental constitutional rights for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you can imagine incomprehensible that a government is coming to implement its commitments to the Greek people. However, this government will remain faithful to everything that has been promised in an election and will apply them solely in the interests of Greek citizens. And in the interests of the citizens, we must end with the chaos of the penitentiary system and the anti-democratic provisions designed to maintain fear in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u45	Thank you, too. Mrs Liberaki Antigone has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to refer to a number of issues relating to the bill of the Ministry of Justice which we are discussing today. I will also comment on some of what has been said before. The view of the River, if we have to make a general position, is that this bill did not have in it the reforms we actually expected, that is, these changes in the rules of the game, the role, identity and function of the penitentiary system, according to the latest concepts and experiences of what works, what it fits, what it does not fit, what it walks, what it does not. On the other hand, we have had a series of horizontal measures that are trying to respond to some pressing problems, not always the best. But these measures do not touch the rules. On the contrary, they continue an old, bad practice, that of intervention in court rulings. We in Potami do not have much tolerance for the argument 'May, and those who have done the same', whether it is the penal-change practices or the time when Parliament is starting. That is what we claim to be express and unequivocal. In particular, then, what we see in this bill is that Type III prisons are being abolished, not because they are not right but because they did not work properly. If a school or a hospital isn't working properly, are we dismantling the hospital care system or the school, or are we trying to fix it? His second side is that it effectively abolishes juvenile prisons. However, it abolishes them without a more general view of the really big and complex and pressing problem of the violation of minors. It also opens the window for a side loss, which is the possible encouragement of gangs from minors, but which follow the orders of adults for their violations. The third issue is the decongestion of prisons. I understand that as a serious matter. What concerns us most, is that there is no reference to the risk of people who are going to be fired. It appears that, on a case-by-case basis, a 'x' number of years is sufficient. It may be different for the various cases, but 'n' years they also get the heaviest criminal to get out. There really is a contradiction here. So much confidence do you have in the penitentiary system within prisons, which you think some years are enough to be able to get people out in the "h" years plus one day? Finally, the recruitment issue is clearly important. But here I would like to say that we have noticed that the largest number of recruitments are in the wrong skills, that is, not in those specialists our penitentiary system needs. In fact - to say this in a few words and starred words - what we see in the bill is a price list of conversion or change of sentences on criteria that a computer can apply. There is no need for any specific judgement on the specific characteristics of each individual. It is something that could have been solved very easily if the law said "may" and there may be a board of experts, wise persons, etc., which may have decided whether each individual case falls within this category that it may or may not. Instead of reforms, then, we see old practices going on. I would like to say two things about photographic devices either invoke humanitarian reasons or invoke related morality. The basic, stable, corrosive and permanent problem with the photographic devices, even with the photographic provisions on which one might say that in their content they are reasonable and correct - I pray to say that, in our view, these are neither reasonable nor correct - is that both 'precious' and 'wrong' photographic provisions create an injury to the single justice rules. They give rise to the right feeling, the impression that every man is equal to all others to the law. And this, in turn, seriously hurts confidence in the institutions. And trust in the institutions that are injured is, in turn, hurting the confidence of society in the democratic organisation. And that's very serious. The specific problem with these specific photographic provisions is that they offer a veil of tolerance - not to say encouragement - to 'left terrorism' - completely in introductory terms - but also to the exercise of politically motivated violence, much more in the form of symbolic and real occupations of public buildings that have just to demand the release of these photographed men and women from the photographic provisions, either of the article in the bill or of the amendment. So I would like to ask the Minister a few questions on this. My first question is whether there are really responsibilities for the worsening of Savva Xirus' vision while he was in prison. And if there are responsibilities, could the Minister tell us what the procedure is through which he is trying to find out and make good by punishing the guilty, if they are found? It's the second question. Why is there no consideration of the degree of risk and the express remorse - if any - of the prisoner? The third question concerns whether it is the ten years of the humanitarian behaviour and attitude Taripha. So the three thousand six hundred and fifty-two days of imprisonment is fine, but if another day comes, we go through a situation that irreparably affects humanitarian values and principles? The other question arises as to what happens if the disability existed before the crime was committed. Will there be the possibility for people with disabilities to know that they will have much more milder treatment than justice or the prison system? Finally - I am not saying 'Mr Minister', why is the Minister not here - ladies and gentlemen, can you tell me whether it is absolutely the same thing that someone has been convicted once in life with five or ten times in life? And if it's the same, do the courts that are imposing sentences more than once in life? In my mind, if the disability is created at the time of the crime for which the prisoner is imprisoned, then how do we deal with it? I guess we won't think of it as an accident at work. But I'm asking you the other question. If during a rape, the victim's wife gets her eyes rapist, what are we gonna say? She'll be in prison ten years and then she'll be gone? Is it going to be ten years after we clear self-righteousness and legal defence with the state's humanitarian attitude to the needy? If we try to unleash a little bit of the photographed person, we will be able to make a lot of useful thoughts, perhaps we could share them with you, if there was not this last question I have to ask about the 'congenital morality' and the moral weight of the relative, which is something that works lightly. Apart from the fact that it is a very obsolete concept of "congenital morality", which dominates the individual's responsibilities towards society, I want to inform you that forty-five years have been closed since the feminists came out with the slogan "I am not my father, I am not my husband, I am myself". And the Minister comes today and says 'no, you are not right. You are both your father and your husband and your brother and your son and your boyfriend and all together, and at the same time, because this is a situation in which we cannot treat you as separate, complete, free people." Well done, then, to the forces of 'progress and light' that turn us so back on these simple issues! In the next minute I have to say that I am really surprised that Minister Voutsis was talking to us about 'democracy' within Parliament - although we really are not at all of terrorist activity and the growth of incidents - while there are all these open-minded occupations in the Republican Republic and, perhaps, - if I understood correctly, from the very few information reached in the Chamber - and some incidents of angry people around them and the Skouri issue, which may also be the most massive loss of work, if the company is closed in Greece, in a business that - of interest - the GSY has not made a resolution of solidarity. In particular, this would have a basis if the issue of bankruptcy was not the subject of what is the largest 'glass' in which the debate is going both on prisons and on the Skouries, on immigration and, of course, not on 'leaving' and'modeling', Mr Flavouraris. Mr. Flambury's not here either, so all my lines are gone, but it's okay! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. But I would like to say that the issue of bankruptcy and a constant spread there is something that we are not pleased to point out. We know that there is too much concern and anxiety, but we heard it in this Chamber - and we heard it very well - the Minister of Finance on 20 February say that 70-80% of the issues were in agreement with our partners and lenders anyway. In any case, how many months should it take to close a deal to get the curly and uncertainty to relaunch the economy and finally get the unemployed to work? That is what we are asking ourselves, and we are here to draw attention to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u47	Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor. I would remind you that no later than 9 o'clock, until the list has arrived, the vote will take place at the beginning. Let's just say it's up to number 30. The list is not cancelled from there and below, but we are starting to discuss articles with the rapporteurs. At the time of speaking, the first two rapporteurs, those who were registered from number 1 to 30, have already spoken, must be re-registered if they wish to speak on the articles. However, those who are already written between 30 and 55 do not need to be re-registered, because anyway this list is being transferred. Go ahead and speak in the first place and in the articles. I think it was understood. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make a few brief remarks on what you said - I am referring to Mr Voutsi - because I sincerely appreciate you as a rhetoric, but today you have overcome yourself. You have given us a declaration of national reconciliation and said, looking at the New Democracy parade "You must stop talking about your own and our own dead". Very good. Did you say to Mrs Leva, who said to the committee yesterday, "Have our father, too, have you said it or had your attention to tell Mrs Leva? Because if we have to stop remembering our own and your own dead, that must obviously apply to both sides. You cannot say this first to the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u49	It's obvious...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u50	So call Mrs. Leva, make her remark and then we'll see it again. Secondly, I hear about the great sensitivity you have and I heard Mrs Leva and another colleague from SYRIZA saying: 'I visited the prisons, I saw Mr Koufantina for reasons of humanity'. You said that your route was crystal clear, that you had nothing to do with terrorism, and you lied to my colleague Vassilis Kikilia, who "will bring great weight" because, he says, dared to connect you with terrorism. We'll share, my dear colleague, this atrocity with joy. So listen, Minister. I would like to ask the SYRIZA colleagues who are so sensitive to detention conditions in prisons. How many did you visit the Golden Dawn colleagues in prison? How many people did you go to see them, ask them about their detention conditions, and if they have any complaints? Did you? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Oh, none of you went? Oh, it didn't. Listen, now, because none of you went. None of you went while, instead, you went to Mr. Koufantina, because you really feel more ideologically related to Mr. Koufantina than to the Golden Dawn. That's the reality. And this testifies, Mr Voutsi, because you have made a reasonable leap here - precisely your path, which is indeed crystal clear and time-consuming in favour of terrorists. Didn't you have your own officials in the 17 November trials as a witness to defence? Didn't you now have any government lawyers from 17 November? Are we going crazy now? We live in another country? Obviously your crystal-clear route says you have and have always had privileged relations with terrorism. But you did something else, which is impressive. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, because God loves the thief but also loves the housewife. The Minister said with a veil "the bad old government sent the chemicals and opened heads", "The bad government of Samaras sent the chemicals and opened heads"! At that time I happened to have my cell phone on and I saw it being the first news in all the news media, now that we are talking: "NAMs with the use of chemicals have been pushed away from the Propylaea". They used chemicals and use the clubs, Mr. Voutsi. What happened now? Now that you're the good Buddhist, are the chemicals all right? Aren't they now expired? Now don't they hurt the health that got hit on Kikilia? Now on Voutsis, have you enriched the chemicals with vitamins and good for health? You didn't tell us. So leave hypocrisy now, because it's great talk when you're in the opposition. But now you're government and you, Mr. Voutsi, have personally sent MATs and they're burdening the anti-powermen - and they're doing well, I'll say - and they're throwing chemicals - and they're doing well, I'll say. But now you, Butsi, not the evil Samaras. You will allow me, however, before I come back to Mr Voutsi, to make a point to my colleague Mr Kurebbe, because he really was very interesting. With reference to the amendment on the 'doll', I would like to hear what he said about it: that we have imposed - listen, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen - a imposing provision on people's clothing preferences. There's obviously some big misunderstanding here. Listen, if we had any problems with dressing preferences, we'd say, "If you're wearing a shoe with a sock, you're going to go to jail." We didn't do that. We would say to the House, when we had a majority, "if you are dressed as a SYRIZA MP, you cannot enter the House". We didn't even do that. On the contrary, we are very liberal about clothing preferences. But here's what we did, because my colleague Mr. Qurebes did not understand. The hood is not a clothing preference. The hood exists to hide the face, so that the perpetrator who burned down a ferret said my own bookstore and the camera he writes doesn't see his face, so he can burn me without being responsible for his actions. That is why the hood has entered as a prejudicial provision in the law and not because we do not like people's dressing preferences. But I would like to go ahead with something more serious, Minister. Mr. Voutsis, with a reasonable leap, linked the electoral clientele of the New Democracy to the non-implementation of the Ragosi Act. Mr Voutsi, I would like your attention here, because this is serious. I do not see any of the Independent Greeks here today in the Chamber, but I imagine they will be informed. You know, your government is not SYRIZA government. It's a SYRIZA government - ANEL. Do you want us to print now - if you want to question it, I am happy to do so - the statements by your co-pilot, Mr Panos Kammenos, on the law of Mr Ragosi? It must be about a volume. Mr. Kammenos said in this House that he is an ethnic law, a law destructive to the Greek race. He was collecting signatures against this law and then as Independent Greeks they constantly blamed the Samara government for not changing this ethnic law. Listen, if we as a New Democracy, the bad guys, go for our electoral clientele, obviously the same applies to Mr. Kammenos. But if Mr. Kammenos does and is bad, why is he going for his election clientele, then you who are working with Mr. Kammenos to have government authority, what are you? Twice evil and immoral! So, there's a place where the reasonable control factor comes in here and says what you said is a lie. If you do not like this electoral clientele, dismantle the cooperation with Mr. Kammenos, who has just these views and even more extremes. If you accept that there may be this electoral clientele, then you recognise the right to New Democracy as well. Let me go a little further on the major issue of the economy where you raised a very interesting question. Let's tell you what to do. Yes, sir. That's a very interesting question, and you know why? It is absolutely certain that someone should tell you what to do, because you have no idea what to do. That's true. But listen to what my proposal is, which is very simple and you will understand. Take the deal of February 20 that you signed and keep it. It's very simple. If you just keep up with the agreement you signed, there will be no problem. Unfortunately, however, you do not do that. And I give you an example. The agreement of 20 February says it's forbidden to disguise laws of the past. But you say that you will change the basic salary law or change the law on the zero deficit clause. So you're breaking the deal. If you break the deal you've made, Greece will obviously go bankrupt. But there it won't be the strangers' fault. Note why it will not be the foreigners' fault: for you, Mr. Voutsi, and personally on behalf of the Government, have signed this agreement. And as we all know, your genetic organ and signature must be careful where you put them. So, after you signed it, you have to keep it. If you don't keep your signature and because you don't keep your signature, the country goes bankrupt, it's not Symple's fault, it's not your fault the bad lenders, it's not your fault the International Monetary Fund, but it's your fault personally and of course, you'll be accountable not only in history, but wherever else it takes. Don't doubt that. I shall now close, Mr President, by saying this, because I have constantly listened to SYRIZA colleagues talking about how sad they are about the situation in Greek prisons and about how urgent it is for this bill to be made. This bill is only for one reason. Let's not be fooled. It's your election commitment, indeed. The people who voted for you and today are whining, poorly whining. You were voted to vote for such bills, because you represent hoodmen, terrorists and criminals. That's what you like, that's what you've been doing here for the last few years, that's what you've always done here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u51	Aren't you ashamed? The criminals?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u52	Criminals in the sense of terrorism. I don't mean other criminals. But listen, to understand the difference a little. A few years ago, there was a great killer in Greece named Passaris. He escaped, killed, left. He escaped and killed to leave the bad Greek prisons. He went to Romania. Kill there, too. He did this especially in Romania, in a Romanian prison. Do you know how many applications Passaris has made asking to come to the Greek prisons? Seventeen applications!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u53	Because they're nice!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u54	The Romanians, however, do not let him come here, and every day he crys in his cell, because while he was in the nice Greek prisons he ended up in Romanians. Why am I telling you this? It is good to cry for the afflicted criminals who are suffering but in a Greek society all suffering, it is at least a disgrace to be a priority of your government, to save these afflicted people from all the others of Greek society. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u55	Mr. Constantine Tasoulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, since we have succeeded in starting with this bill after an adventurous start due to a mix of formalism, narcissism, self-promotion and various other elements which I cannot yet diagnose, the President of this House, I have to admit, ladies and gentlemen, that many of the things that have been heard by colleagues in my own party about his fragmentation or his curiosity are unfair. They're wrong with you. And you are wrong not only in relation to this bill dealing with the reform of criminal law and the abolition of the detention shops III type but they are unfair in relation to a more general criticism of the country's awkward or fragmentary governance in the last quarter that, with the vote of the Greek people, you are managing the fate of the country by confronting the party of the Independent Greeks. I consider it also from this bill that your tactics are neither fragmentary nor awkward nor awkward. I believe that you have an absolute objective that you are systematically pursuing and which has to do with the implementation of what you believe in the country's position within Europe and within the Eurozone. What you think is not at all positive about our country's position in this form of union and cooperation between states in which we voluntarily entered. This entry of our country has been confirmed many times by the Greek people and is also recently confirmed by polls, which impressively state that the Greek people despite the maliciousness that has devoured him for at least four years, despite the worsening of his life, do not want to see the country exit from the Eurozone or the European Union at large. However, your side - not its existence but its growth - is the result of the fact that the grasp of the Greek people has defeated its concerns. Don't go for your victory. Your victory is not due to the Greek people's appreciation. It is not due to the admiration or accession of the Greek people to your foreign and incoherent views. I cannot imagine a people who, when they gave you 4% and 5%, did not know what they were doing. The Greek people always know what they are doing or always have reason to vote as they vote. You cannot go along with the percentage you have taken now and think that for the first time the Greek people are judging. He was right, and when he repeatedly gave you a margin of 4%, 5% and 6%. And then he was voting right. Do not think that the Greek people when voting for 80% of the parties that have voted against today was a victim of misinformation or misinformation or misguided or victim of a client-invincible system that had crushed him and had restricted his choices. Do not concede to consider the people you and the Constitution as a victim to a sovereign body. The people are never a victim. The people have to know and know what they're voting for. The people, therefore, tired and struggling, honored those who, in their opinion, were responsible for the worsening of their lives. And we are not the good and the bad ones who, from evil or from resentment or subjection, as you say repeatedly and insultingly, have decided to avenge him on the pretext of the economic crisis to impose on the Greek people all these difficult economic situations. We have not been able to create, but instead we have suffered, knowing that we will suffer it, to prevent something that we know that, because the Greek people will not see it, it will not be so sure as an argument in relation to the cries of populism and flattery of the people you are making, which are also visible, human beings, and welcome. What we call upon, the Greek people did not see and thankfully they did not see it. It is better to crush or defeat elections than to see the Greek people see what we prevented. Thousands of times the defeat of ours was better than damage to the unbelievable, sanctified, which I think we have prevented. Only we didn't live her for one day, so I could give her an argument and I wish we didn't. But, like this bill - I repeat - it is not fragmentary, so it is not fragmentary and your behaviour. They are secondary to what you are doing in the bill, and I admit that there is a good deal of it in relation to the treatment of drug addicts, in relation to the increase in the employees of detention stores, in relation to the behaviour of offenders. Obviously, there's also right, but these are secondary. These are amendments by the Minister of Justice to the basic bill, in which the SYRIZA and ANEL coexistence sends a message to society or their own public - not to 36%, but to the much smaller audience, what they have voted consciously, that is, 6% - 7%, what they are always voted on consciously - on where they are doing it. I disagree with what has been said here that you do not know where you are going to go to this bill and on general issues. I think that your purpose is for the country not to reach an agreement and break and send messages to a audience that is abominable and does not want Europe, while at the same time building up in advance guilty entities for the damage that will be caused to your country by your intransigence and by your own narrow-minded mind. I think you know exactly what you're doing. You took an extension so that you could build the guilty ones of the damage you will cause. And you slowly build these guilty ones. Europe, the Eurozone, Germany, the right, the neoliberals, the memorialists, those who don't want to get out of prison and want the pigeons to come out. This whole set is slowly set up so that when the great damage is done, the one we prevented, you have already built in the consciousness of a tired people the guilty. I want to say to you that you have neither this mandate nor this right and that you know that what you are planning without being hesitant, without being distractive, will prevent anyone else from doing so, because if you have a plan, we have and we have the Greek people, and that is his stay in Europe, it is not to lose his sacrifices and not to circulate between us murderers who have terrorized our lives and destroyed people's lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u57	Mr. Vorides has the floor. After a "in-family" consultation on the position of the next speaker, Mr. Dimitrios Emmanoulidis will speak, Mrs. Panagiota Kozoboli and on the position of Ms. Alexandra Tsanakas will be spoken by the co-chairman Alexis Metropoulou next to Mr. Vorides. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously in anti-crime policy issues, there are opinions, there are schools. There are schools which are also affected by political ideologies. The debate on the nature of the sentence, its function, its value, its purpose is a debate that is taking place everywhere in the world, is a great debate in forensics and the philosophy of law in one part of the world. If we had such a debate here, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what we would be discussing? We'd discuss alternative ways of estimating the sentence with the prison sentence. Such legislation has been in the past, our government has made it, it is the famous bracelet. Do we have anything like this here? Are we talking about this? I wish we could talk about something like that. It would be an interesting and critical debate. Here we are discussing two things once again, which we will explain. The first is that, it's supposed, because of bad conditions of detention, release appears as a humanitarian measure. In response to the bad conditions of detention, ladies and gentlemen, they are policies to improve detention and not to prevent the penalty being paid off. So, another one. So that's not what you're doing here. Secondly, you are pursuing a well-known bad practice that has been done in the past and is linked to the many prisoners, namely releases, non-punishment of the sentence, because there is no room for prisoners. Exquisitely bad. There I think, Minister, there is no disagreement in the academic community. It is an extremely bad measure to release in order to serve the inability of the penitentiary system. However, these are secondary, because the major you are doing here is two interventions, which exist within the bill and one proposal, which comes from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. They have a strong, not counter-criminal, but ideologically worthy of criticism from my colleagues and I share them. I should like to say, Mr Voutsi, that it is always a great pleasure to listen to you in this House - it is a pity that it is a Minister and we do not have to hear him more - especially because the Minister is always completely honest. Assemble what we give him. So what? Dialogue with terrorism. He said it on different terms. He said it was a dialogue with social flows and with a view to tackling social problems. That is what we will agree on. The essence of this is dialogue with terrorism. I will say why this dialogue is taking place in terms of legislative intervention. Where does that look? Elimination of Type III prisons. Because one could say: 'You know, it is in our counter-crime policy.' Read how poor the explanatory statement is in this matter. See the poverty here on the issue of these prisons. Mostly read who's being held. Who is the person in Type III prison? Last treason, killers, blackmailers, robbers. Watch out, not generally. We're not talking about simple killers. Those who committed these three offences to a criminal organization. Who are they? Or organised crime or terrorists. There are no others. These two categories are about Type III prisons. Is that what you're dealing with? Are you worried about depriving them of their right to leave? So who? To the militant criminals either - I say again - organised crime, the public, but not the one who went to rob a bank, because something happened to him in his life, but the one who created a criminal organization, to rob banks, the one who created a criminal organization, to be murdered. They are now regulated, and you are being cut together by those who have escaped, escaped, attacked, attacked against prisoners, who have effectively organized the degradation of the penitentiary system. They're the ones that are regulated by Type III prisons and for which you don't want to what? You don't want external guarding, because these are the extra security measures, plus what? Don't take permissions. To whom do we give permission, ladies and gentlemen? The people who killed and killed again? Those who joined terrorist organisations to kill, rob, blackmail? In the bunkers? Do they have to get permission? Why? In order to continue their profession during their period of leave? That is the first issue. Secondly, what is the point of this provision, which, of course, you have criticised for life imprisonment? I'm listening. It's a humanitarian measure. Colleagues have said that we are not so hard on convicts who are sick. There are provisions in our Criminal Code on the issue of irresponsible harm. There are years now. They've been used. Why? Because if a person is a patient and the creation of his sentence burdens his health status, he goes to court, exposes the state of his health, the court judges and may discontinue the construction of his sentence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u59	I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Is that what we're dealing with here? Do you know what you're saying? Life imprisonment, disability 80%, ten years in any way. What does "in any way" mean? A beneficial calculation of time, so some, so ten years can be five really. In other words, someone who has committed seven murders and who actually has 80% disability in five years will be out of prison. Is that an anti-crime policy that you support, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u61	Is the payroll with 80% disability?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u62	Yeah, they're doing the cuts because there's mild work. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u63	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u64	Let go of it then. Not 'in any way'. As long as they don't have any backlogs, take it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u65	Mr. Voridis, you're wasting time from the two minutes I gave you. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u66	Thirdly, with regard to the hood provision, are your proposal, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, fellow Members, clothing? So, someone walked one day and put on a glass so they wouldn't recognize him and we took him and arrested him to punish him? Is that what the arrangement says? 'Environmental circumstances exist only in the event of specific offences being committed.' You write them in your proposal. In order to activate the device, he must have done unnecessarily physical damage, a common peace disruption, a heavy physical damage, a robbery...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u67	And damage of public property.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u68	How? With the features of his face covered. What's wrong with him? He's increasing the criminal. Who's doing this crime? Our known hoods.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u69	For those who haven't spoken yet, I want to tell you we're wasting time. Don't challenge him to finish. Calm the left wings. Mr. Voridis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u70	I shall conclude, Mr President. I now understand that the project, which is revealed, is well-organised, is well-organised, has an ideological identity, and it is not about either rights or humanism. The first provision concerns criminals condemned for terrorism, and that is why you do not want Type III prisons. Second order is for Savva Dried. The third provision concerns the hoodmen. And you're telling me that this isn't a bill revealing your ideological and television connections, confessed in the context of the dialogue with the terrorists that the government and the Minister are doing? Have the honesty and uprightness of saying things by their name. You're supporting your extreme left end, the armed, the murderous one. That's what's behind this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u71	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u72	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u73	Immediately, Minister, I will give you the floor. Just so my fellow Members know, as I have said, Mr Emmanuelides will be Mrs Kozobol. Mr Mitropoulos will be followed by the vote, and Mr Katsafadas, Mr Gikas, Mrs Aylonitos and Mr Constantinople will speak before the vote. The vote will take place at 21.00 noon with these colleagues. Since now, the parliamentary representatives have been preparing for us to propose what kind of time do you want the second sitting to end, namely the articles? I think about 00:00 with 00:30, that he's fine. But think about it. Before the speech on the articles begins, we will discuss it. The Minister has the floor. Why do you want the floor, for intervention or for staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u74	Not on personal grounds. To God! One intervention to Mr. Voridis, and I'll give him a chance...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u75	All right, I'll give you three minutes. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u76	Yeah, yeah. And less. I'd like to say two things. I am speaking from here and intervention, because the only way to hear us now is the channel of Parliament. As far as I have heard, the selective memorial instruments were, until just a moment ago, hosted only the speech by Mr Georgiadis, who answers Mr Voutsis and devours me and wraps me up, as we have heard before. That is why Mr Georgiadis has no responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u77	I don't despise you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u78	They'll have Mr. Voridis now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u79	But, in order to get in here, because the conflict will be hard and on this level and the message needs to be taken. Your long hand in communication and confiscation made by both the Greek people and the mass movements and political forces of the Left will be cut off from its root!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u80	Are we going to make a censorship?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u81	You're not talking on behalf of the channels now, Mr. Adoni.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u82	You speak for terrorists.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u83	You said these before, and they were hosted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u84	Minister, there is no "Mr. Adononi", but "Mr. Georgiadis", as there is no "Mr. Nicos".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u85	Yes, Mr. Georgiadis, excuse me. But look, because things are serious, I would like Mr Vorides to do two things, and I would be very pleased if he did. Firstly, I would like him to tell us whether any of the issues he has raised have not been heard in this Chamber in the last decade, and especially in the last three years completely argumented about as a position of SYRIZA, and if even one of these issues thinks that it was now discovered or submitted now or is now being imposed, to legislate. That's for clean consultation. I would ask you to say this in public. And secondly, let me tell you that I would like you to remove the last twenty seconds from your speech in your passion, you said about armed and some other things. You realize that this is a slippery street. I do not want to pay back or offset because I do not feel that way. But we can't go on like this. I would ask you both to take the floor. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u86	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u87	Mr Vorides, what are you asking for now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u88	Two issues have been raised, if I may. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u89	Good. Anyway. Because I hope that you will also end up with Mr. Voutsis in the 'cutting of the hand from the root' and you in the last twenty seconds have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u90	On the first point you raised, Minister, I will fully agree with you and I am ready to recognize it immediately. Your position and the position of SYRIZA is entirely consistent over the last few years with this legislative practice. Absolutely consistent. Hence, citizens are not entitled to complain about the consequences of this practice, neither of the lawlessness of immigration nor of the hordes of migrants who are now coming either for the situation in Rectoria, for the occupations or for the damages, because that was your policy, in fact, consistently, as you have supported in this Chamber over time. Second one. I repeat and repeat. If I have said a word more, I shall make it quite clear to you. I repeat, therefore, that this legislative initiative does not have anti-criminal characteristics. It has characteristics that actually give punishment and criminal treatment to terrorists with whom - I insist - you still consider that you have some kind of ideological affinity and relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u91	Mr. Voridis, let me understand, are the last twenty seconds deleted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u92	Of course not. They're recasting in my second intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u93	Exactly, that's what I mean. Good. We're continuing the process. Mrs Kozobol - Amanatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no parliamentary experience but, having listened patiently to all the positions this morning, I have formed the impression that the whole Opposition is annoying that the government, with SYRIZA in its trunk, legislates and consolidates every day and more its position here and improves the position of citizens at all levels. I think that that is where the debate focused, that stress was expressed today by the whole opposition, despite the draft law at issue. But I'll talk about the bill. Of all Parliament's wings, it was concluded that the situation in prisons was terrible. The situation in prison hospitals is disgusting, and this is the immediate need to vote for this bill as a priority, in order to blow up a humane air in prison and stop the images of shame, which, in other words, have condemned our country by fines of millions of euros. The draft law which we are debating and the main amendments tabled, the ministerial and parliamentary amendments, for home-made construction of the defendant's sentence, for the way in which DNA is received and for the abolition of the well-known "coulddog" are based on the principles of European legal culture and humanism. These authorities give the lead in the state's penitentiary and diligent look and not in the vengeance and severe repression of lawbreakers. The criminal legislature must identify and implement the balances between the criminal repression of crimes and the protection of human rights of detainees. This commitment of the state expresses the spirit and letter of the provisions of this bill. Mr. Kaklamanis, speaking earlier, in favour of the disgraceful state of the hospital of the detainees, told us that since 1983, President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, he has seen misery.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u95	Secretary-General, not president.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u96	Yes, Secretary General. It has, however, seen, in whatever capacity the misery prevailed in the prison therapy and a report was drawn up, which, as he has said, sent to all the Justice Ministers from then on. Everybody, none of them. Accreditation, wishing, ostrichism. Our Government's Justice Minister today, however, chose to begin, put his hand on the type of suns. Consequent to his programme statements, he brings this bill, emphasising crime prevention and reintegration, while aiming at a human prison, not only because of the need to respect human rights but also because otherwise crime is reproduced. It has now been proved by scientific evidence that the harder it is to treat the offender, the greater the chance of relapsing it. With the arrangements for minors, minor prisons are effectively abolished, as criminal confinement for minors between 15 and eighteen years old is limited. So convicted will be few and will be able to be held in civilised conditions in a safe space by adult prisoners, where they will not be exterminated but will be prepared for their reintegration into society. The institution of Shops III, problematic and unconstitutional, changes the sentence qualitatively, without this change relying on a judicial judgment, which means that the sentence is inconsistent, compared with the one judged by the court, by the natural judge as fair recompense, as a fair sentence. It is myth that there is deliberately being cultivated that there is a security deficit by abolishing these stores, since the wings with enhanced security measures existed before this type of prison and will also exist in the future. The home-made construction of the sentence for disabled persons with certified disability is necessary, as it is not a question of ambiguousness or a change in the sentence imposed by the natural judge but of inability to provide hospitality to the seriously disabled in prisons. The position on the issue of the President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, Mr Thanos, is characteristic. He said: "Why should we object to a house arrest for the rest of his sentence being held in prison when he has 80% disability, has he served a large part of his sentence and prisons are unable to cope with his serious disability?" He's just answering that question. If, in fact, the way in which the sentence was drawn up at home affected the sentence imposed by the judge, it is certain that the Association of Judges and Prosecutors would have another place in this regard. This bill, confronted at the same time with the suffocating problem with the overpopulation of prisons, the inseparable and constant condemnations of Greece by the Court of Human Rights. In their overwhelming majority, the bodies invited for consultation on 8 April were in favour of the bill. I do not want to repeat what they have said, they have been heard earlier. But, having listened to all of these colleagues, particularly the New Democracy, as well as some friendly journalists, terrorists and propagandas, I wonder. Is it possible to ignore these voices of reason, humanity and sensitivity? Can the New Democracy's fellow Members, who asked in 1990 for the release of the junta's coup d'états, accepting today the home-made construction of the remainder of the sentence to severely ill and disabled persons with a 98% disability rate? Why such hypocrisy and opposition stand? The provisions on increasing penalties to five offences, if the perpetrator has covered his or her face's characteristics, established on the basis of the 2008 events following the assassination of Gregoropoulos and the insecurity cultivated in society, was condemned by all the legal world, scientific clubs and parties. In a recent survey of the "Privats Newspaper", all parties condemned this law. PASOK said. "The party was against the first moment. Its application offered nothing. Instead, he created shadows. In some cases it should be abolished. That's the way the River and the JRC responded. Don't come back. Chrysochoid's statements say the same in 2009. The plenary of the presidents of the country's lawyers, on 23-3-2009, also responded in the same way as the Association of Greek Criminalists. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under vote does not absolve, it does not reduce the deceptiveness of the crime, it does not interfere with the sentence imposed on it by the natural judge. Those who claim to do so do it to obscure and conceal their essence. The bill under resolution humanises prisons, supports the reintegration of detainees with special care for minors, facilitates the decommissioning of detainees and restores constitutional legitimacy by abolishing anti-constitutional institutions. Those who prefer the "dry" opposition to the government, undermining values and principles against common sense and humanism, should assume their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I was wrong. Before Mr Metropoulou, who, as we have said, has taken up the position of Ms Alexandra Chanaka, precedes the Deputy of SYRIZA Mr Ioannette Cavadia, which I call on the Vima. Before I give her the floor, you will allow me to read out three requests for permission abroad: The first is Mr Stavros Kalafatis, who is addressed to the President of the Parliament. Congressman Stavros Kalafatis is requesting permission from a short-day absence from 10 April to 15 April for personal reasons abroad and from 16 April to 17 April for participation in the Committee of the Regions. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u98	The House approved the requested permission. The second request for permission is for SYRIZA MP Xanthi, Mr Hussein Zaybeck, who would like to inform him that he will not be able to attend Parliament today on 16 April and tomorrow 17 April, because he will be abroad for personal reasons and is addressed to the President of Parliament. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u99	The House approved the requested permission. The third application is Mr. South Mitarakis, who, in accordance with Article 76(3), is requested to be authorised by the President of the Parliament from Monday 27 April to Friday 1 May 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u100	The House unanimously approved. I just want to remind the new colleagues - the old ones know - that the submission of a question by any Member of Parliament is his inalienable right. He does not commit his party and represents himself. Mrs. Cavadia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not give in to the temptation, although a person on television for the past twenty-five years, to speak in terms of a television line such as the previous speakers, who seem to be unable to live without the five-minute period of their daily publicity. Going to the essentials, to say that the bill that we are debating today has become an excuse for an unprecedented attack on the government, a campaign of terrorism which the right-wing party, regrettably, has taken over by parties who have placed themselves in the progressive spectrum, such as Potami and PASOK. The aim of this attack was to focus the debate on individual issues of the bill, while with a zeal and the best propaganda mechanisms were hiding essential parts of it and coming back to the agenda, such as terrorism, lawlessness and crime. However, the bill is essentially the humanisation of penitentiary stores and the decongestion of prisons in such a way that the self-evident right to security and public order for those outside prisons is not affected. The aim is to have beneficial provisions for prisoners of over-age, disabled patients, drug addicts. The parties that have been ruling for years do not want these to be discussed, nor do they want the responsibilities for the situation in which the prisons have arrived today. But they do not want to say that they are contrary to beneficial provisions. Therefore, those opposed to the bill claim that the law is photographic and that it concerns a particular person. I have only to repeat what the Minister has said. Only if the particular prisoner is excluded could the law be classified as photographic. The Opposition does not tell us why it is against a bill that ends the barbaric detention of children, over-aged, severely helpless old people who are being exterminated in prison often driving even to death. You are not telling us, ladies and gentlemen, why you are against a law that would allow the release of a cancer patient who died a few days ago. How do you really feel about that? But I would like to ask you something else. Can you look into the eyes of all the people involved in the bill and tell them that you're going to vote negatively? But even if you do, do you have anything to suggest to improve prison conditions? And if so, why didn't you do it all these years? Let's tell you why. The reason is that in your perception some lives are less important than others. Some people are consumable in the name of your ideas. We are constantly listening to the opposition parties about the value of our European path and identity. Do you know how many convictions Greece has from the European Court of Justice for inhuman and degrading treatment of detainees? Only the last four years thirteen. The country for these thirteen convictions must pay almost two million euros, money that could certainly be given to improve the conditions in prisons. I should like to say to those who do not know that the last sentence is on 12 March, when the European Court of Human Rights called on the defendants to pay EUR 82,600 for inhumane and degrading treatment in accordance with Article 3 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. Let us now move on to some individual issues and first of all to the amendment on the abolition of the infamous 'Culturer' for which so much discussion is taking place. Let's just remind you of the facts. This unacceptable law came on the day of December 2008, the events following the murder of Alexander Gregopoulou. Its aim was to limit the incidence of incidents in hooded demonstrations. But let us see what happened in practice. In the name of the persecution of the hoodmen, what was eventually criminalized was not the execution of offences but - no matter how much people laugh at it - the clothing of the protesters, the hood. In other words, the clothes of people who want to protest on the streets were shepherded. In other words, we have reached a limit on the right to protest. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I want to be absolutely clear. We give no room to anyone to do what they do, wearing a hood. We're never with those who wore a hood to protest. But this one more to be arrested and dragged into court on the charge of covering the characteristics of people wearing simple masks to protect themselves from chemicals, wearing handkerchiefs, sweatshirts, hooded skirts to withstand tear gas. So what is it that we want to protect and what can we criminalize? The man who flies molotov is doing an unlawful act. You don't have to wear or not wear a hood. He's an outlaw anyway. So, if he's indicted, he'll be arrested. If this is about violence in the demonstrations, then there is a supersufficient legislative framework to deal with it. Do you consider it accidental, like Mr Manoledakis and Mr Argyropoulos, to have heard earlier - and sixty-four lawyers across the country have been against this law? I would remind you of the characteristic phrase of the former President of the Paxinos Bar Association, who I do not think belongs to the SYRIZA ranks, who had said that he would wear a hood and go to the House in a sign of protest or remind you, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, that your party with Mr Kastanidis Minister for Justice had set up a Preparatory Committee on the Change of the Criminal Code and in the 2011 plan it was proposed that the provisions of the hoodier should be abolished. Has something changed since then in your seats? With regard to the second amendment concerning DNA, I should like to say that the amendment on genetic material cures the serious problems of the existing provisions. It shall establish guarantees in accordance with the principle of dignity of the person, respect for the human body and the principle of proportionality, and in accordance with the recommendations of the International Organisations and the Privacy Authority. I want to close, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of high security prisons. Some say we'll be the only country without such prisons. They're not wrong. What they do not say, however, is that all international organisations are asking for their abolition, as it increases relapse, suicide cases, and violates international human rights conventions. That is why we would prefer to say that we are the first country to implement a measure that will soon be called upon to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u102	Before giving the floor to Mr Mitropoulos, I must give the floor to the Minister, Mr Paradoxopoulos, to read the legislative improvements, because we are approaching the end. Mr Manda, because you made sense to me of what I meant by what I said, because it is an argument used by your party's colleagues that the question of five Members of the New Democracy in 1990 is not binding on our parties - all of them - and it does not represent them. I could, for example, remind you - and here I am making a violation of the Rules of Procedure - that of Constantine Karamanlis who said, referring to the Aprilians - the famous one: 'When we speak of life, we mean life' and kept it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. These are some legal corrections which I had announced during the debate on the bill in committee, but I also announced this morning before the House. These are two issues. The major and most useful thing for the article, which will follow, is that Article 2 of the bill, which was quite a long article with reforms of the Criminal Code, is divided into several articles, so that there is a possibility of discussing the smaller articles which are created, i.e. the individual sections of that article. In addition, substantial reform - because most of the others are verbal - is another reform that had been announced, namely that Article 110a adds, as we discussed in the morning, electronic surveillance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u104	I would ask that they be distributed. Thank you, Minister. Mr. Metropoulou, you have the floor. Mr Katsafados, Mr Gikas, Mrs Aylonitou and Mr Constantinople will be followed. I hope that anyone who succeeds me in the Chair will accept this programming we have agreed with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left has been identified by labour and wage support. It owes its existence to them and there will be as much as class confrontation. The picture of miners currently protesting outside the House with their women and children against the Government of the Left is not good. It is the government, the Prime Minister himself, to discuss with them, and with the citizens who have their own documented views on the environment and the protection of the beautiful Halkidiki. At a difficult time for the country, where our lenders lead to the most recent national dilemmas, perhaps even break and cancel any agreement with them, the cracks between the various layers of the Greek working class and the Greek society are luxury for the Government of the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, for the bill discussed at first sight, I am positive, even for the article at issue. This is not the case again, ladies and gentlemen. We are legislating on the basis of the time-consuming values of the human species and of global civilization. The House today does not acquit, but prevents fatality in exceptional cases only. When I was released on 23 February 1974, I had two choices towards my two tortured policemen: either I hate them life and generally the police, or I forgive them and help change their role and their socialisation. I had to do the second and I did it. I assembled those days against the murders of the two police officers and later took the lead police officers initiative and founded the first police unions in 1988 and then the military. Ladies and gentlemen, on 10-1-2014, with a request for documents to be lodged with the Minister of Finance and Justice, together with the Minister today, Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, we had requested the lodging in the House of the Nicoloudi List, with the names of politicians, businessmen, journalists and all others included, controlled or persecuted. The reasons that led us to this movement were not to expose persons and suspicions, but as we wrote - I read - 'because the time had come to make the much-conscious clearance in the areas of public life, because there must be no shadows in any area of public life and because the betrayed and seated Greek people must be told the truth about all of us.' I would like to ask you the question. [[At this point, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Alexios Mitropoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the same day I was attacked outside my home, and the next day I was informed by a well-known newspaper that the new, third-party, during the memorandum, tax control for 1999, i.e. 15 years back. The government with written answers from its ministers, Mrs Stournara and Mr Athanasios, has refused to deposit in the Parliament on the Nicoludi list invoking the confidentiality and secrecy of controls. I give you both relevant documents immediately. [[At this point, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Alexios Mitropoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With his announcement on 14-4-2015 and in reply to my related report, the Minister of State against Corruption Mr. Panagiotis Nikoloudis admitted: I read: Firstly, that this list includes about eighty-five thousand cases suspected of tax evasion, involving transfers and deposits abroad over 200,000 euros each. According to my information, the average of the eighty-five thousand Memorandum transfers is 535 000 euros. Secondly, the Minister admits that the Ministry of Finance has more complete and more up-to-date lists with much more cases of eighty-five thousand cases and that - he adds - the Black Money Laundering Authority is committed to its non-publishment. You realise that in this difficult situation, which lives without it being caused by our people, we have a duty with a unanimous decision by Parliament to bring the Nicoludi list, as has been multiplied, by a statement by the same Minister to date. Personally, I call on the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament and the Minister of State to do the right thing, to bring the relevant list to the House immediately, in fact by giving it publicity. I, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional moral reason to ask for the Nicoludis list to be immediately lodged in the House. I would like to see whether there are officials, journalists or their families who have been inspired, inspired, designed, drunkened and carried out a plan of fiscal terrorism, aiming at my political extermination and splendidness. Ten days ago, I lived the last - I believe - a tough phase of this project. It was the days when the prosperous financial officials broke into a newspaper that was unscrupulous and slandering news at my expense, which were then transmitted to the central news offices of two television stations on the 6th and 7th of April. They aimed not only at my own terrorism, but also at the terrorization of proud and independent Greek judges of the Administrative Court of Athens and the Legal Council of State, who a few days ago the slandering publications had been made with documented decisions revealing all the construction at my expense. The decisions in question are currently in the hands of the head of the Ministry of Finance. They are the same ones who a year ago forced an excellent Director General of the Ministry of Finance to give up Mr. George Kritsellis, when with an opinion he also revealed the construction against me, which is also in the hands of the Ministry of Finance's leadership. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the First Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of the Committee of Inquiry into the Memorandum which was set up, I have asked the President to check for their behaviour the faces of the auditing mechanisms, of credit institutions and others who, either alone or through their fiscal or credit policy, the terroristing or murdering credit in particular of entrepreneurs, have led to several hundred compatriots in suicide, death and sickness. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the First Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I want to raise another point. Since the announcements of a number of parties and in response to the unjust and asymmetrical attack on the Minister, George Katrougalou, were an impression to the public that the social and political struggle, particularly during the memorial period, was selfish and profitable for all, I have presented to you all the official assurances of the Athens Bar Association concerning the year 2003, which I made my first television appearance to date, in order not to relate my social action to my professional activity, as well as to the official assurances concerning me and my children. [[At this point, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Alexios Mitropoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These assurances, ladies and gentlemen, are proof that both I and my children, during all the years of the memorandum, have neither taken up nor dealt with a case for remuneration before a court. Ladies and gentlemen, the Nicolude list must be submitted to the House tomorrow. Clearance is required in all areas of public life, particularly in the mass media, but also in the public sector's control mechanisms, because I fear that during the memorial period some of the jurors have not been able to deal with the circumstances, but have obeyed specific orders for the slashing and extermination of political persons, as well as simply our compatriots. Thank you very much for your attention and apologise for the personal tone of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u106	Although, of course, they did not have anything to do with the bill, but it was a personal statement, hence an emotional charge by my colleague, at least as President-in-Office, I will sign his closure. That is what I asked the President of Parliament in writing, namely the immediate convening of the Commission from Eves, at the first meeting of which Mr Nikoloudis should be present and to confirm or disprove what was heard by Mr Metropolis. Mr. Katasfadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really cannot understand the need for the Minister of Justice for the first bill that brings to the debate and for a vote in this House to contain provisions that catalyse judicial decisions, encourage the spirit of lawlessness, create a security deficit and release isobetes and terrorists. Instead of having as your priority the top and major problem, which is the quickest administration of justice, you are obviously hierarchy of your priorities on the basis of 4%, which they seem to impose on the government line. The situation in the university, with a minority of forty people plundering, occupying the sites and creating a chamber of lawlessness and infraction, is your job, ladies and gentlemen. Your inability to impose legitimacy is worse than your tolerance to these phenomena. In the face of your minority ideas, there are democratic citizens who do not tolerate situations of plundering and occupation of the University of Athens today and the Law School a few days ago. The vast majority deplores rhetoric calling on illegal immigrants in Greece, which proclaims the provision of travel documents, which considers them a Priori all refugees and places them under its protection. Follow a dangerous and very slippery road. Basically, the bill that comes today for discussion and vote in the House opens up a ferry, not only for the penitentiary system but also for the rule of law. It seems that public consultation on the content of the bill was a pretext on your part, because in reality you are doing so with those who have been convicted of deceitful acts, which are against even that of democracy itself. I am referring mainly to the clear photographic provisions to find Xiros at his house and to improve treatment for Koufantinas. In fact, there is no separation of cases depending on the defendant's offence and profile. We have heard misunderstandings and absurdities that afflict us all. Xero's health problem is due to the bomb that broke into the port of Piraeus and not to the state, as you provokedly said, even if you took your statement back, Minister. All that makes such statements is to offend the memory of the victims of terrorism, all that the Xerus condemned themselves to death and removed their lives. The state had to provide medical treatment to Xeros, as did any other prisoner. I disagree politically and ideologically with the Left, but I respect its members for their consistency. But it seems that you do not respect them when you like them to terrorists, to whom you give left-handed signals and consider them as social fighters and some of you even political prisoners. What does the victims and murderers of 17 November have to do with Mikis Theodorakis and Leonidas Kyrkos? Even the amendment you tabled, Minister, concerning the release of relatives of prisoners is photographic. It concerns relatives of persons indicted by the anti-powered area, detained for the activities of the “Fevers of Fire” organization. Ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of the highest security prisons is a mistaken option. Basically, the institutional framework that has been in place so far and which you are going to abolish is a framework of harmonisation with international standards in force in all European countries. There is only one Type III penitentiary and it is the Domos prisons, because it has to be and there must be, because there is - whether you like it or not - separation of prisoners on the basis of the offences they are being burdened with and the danger that characterises them. This is not a Greek originality. It applies in all countries and is linked to modern legal culture. The framework for the functioning of the highest security prisons is in line with European and international rules. In their creation, but also in the context of their operation, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights has been taken into account. The functioning of these prisons is linked to asymmetric threats posed by terrorism and crime to the risk of some prisoners. High security prisons exist to protect the life and safety of all prisoners, but also of prisoners. They are associated with security rules and increased surveillance and control measures. It is something that you are abolishing and I must tell you that you will assume all the responsibility for what may follow. We are therefore not going to consent to that. But it also makes me a great impression that there are no provisions concerning security in Type I and Type II prisons. Obviously, the issue of prison security, the security of practically the prisoners and penitentiary officers is a secondary issue for you. I would like to refer to paragraph 3 of Article 6, according to which prisoners with prison sentences of ten years or more may be released by the creation of one-third of their sentence, even isovitas and justice sentenced for guilty acts. Because there is no other clarification as to who this article is concerned, but it prejudges its horizontal application. There is the argument, as I have heard in this Chamber, that we have many isobetes. But who made them isovites? The decisions of independent justice which you obviously want to ignore. You do not even take into account the opposite opinion of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors requesting the withdrawal of this paragraph. However, there is also something worse about the disposition and separation of the cases of those who are about to be released. With the provisions on releases on the basis of the decongestion of prisons - because there is indeed this problem - I would remind you that some accusations, such as those of paedophiles and those convicted of child abuse crimes, were excluded. You, however, remove this exception and give them the right to make use of this provision. Nor do you allow the self-evident, that is to say, the right of judges and prosecutors to judge what the use of this provision cannot be made and the release of isobetes and detainees for felony. This is a sample of or of the fact that you don't trust the justice or of the needing it to be a ignorant instrument of yours. I would like to make a reference to Article 9 for the operation of prisoners' open living centres. The debate that took place in the committee did not clarify us. No one knows the exact operating framework of these open centres, as you call them, but there are no safety barriers. Of course, I must remind you, Minister, that in relation to the adaptation of detainees to conditions of liberation, there are the relevant provisions for its implementation in the Penitentiary Code. So why don't you make any improvements in this regard, make adjustments to the Penitentiary Code, and proceed with an absolute sluggishness and a security deficit in the creation of these centres? Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is indeed not avenged. But democracy has rules and these rules your government must respect them. Mr Panoussis, through a public intervention, expressed his concern about the lawlessness and tolerance which is being built up. He was addressed to the Prime Minister himself, he warned him about the dangers, the fact that some seek dead, to destroy the laws. Under normal circumstances, two things should have happened: Or the Prime Minister would have shared the concerns of his minister and given him the appropriate orders for concrete measures or Mr Panussis resigning. However, it is a given fact that none of these two happened. Mr. Panousis remains in his place, prefers to make findings and analyses and not to act, as he requires the duty and oath he has given. The Prime Minister probably does not want to displease 4% - which I believe is much smaller - which is sympathetic to the occupations not only in universities, but also within Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to analyse briefly the reasons why I disagree with this bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But there is another important reason: The feeling of this bill is that it is negotiated not with the natural partners, the officials of justice, the penitentiaries and the society, but with violations, terrorists and anti-powers. It seems to everyone that the law is now negotiated. And that's the worst message ever! I wish, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the winds which you will sow do not give rise to storms for our society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u108	In consultation with the President, we will go up to number 26, namely Mrs Fotini Vakis. I said until Mr. Constantinople, who's in number 25. It's exactly half. Immediately afterwards, we shall vote. He has asked for the floor not for dentistry, as I understand it, but for a small intervention by Mr Lagos. As a parliamentarian, he does not use his dentistry, but a part of it. Mr. Rabbit, do you get two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. We have previously heard Mr Metropoulou, who from Stepa referred to the list of Nikoloudis, which has become a big issue in the last few days. He had mentioned a few days ago that the Nicoludi list includes MPs and executives of all parties except the JRC. We told him, like our MP Antonis the Gregos from the Step of the House, to clarify that in this list - and in no other list - there is no one's name for the Golden Dawn. He told us he would, but he didn't. As we saw him earlier when he was moved about what is being heard at the expense of him - and he was rightly moved when he was right - we would also like to hear the truth that we have nothing to do with this list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u110	Thank you. Mr Stefanos Gikas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it would not be unreasonable to say that no one would expect the new Minister within three months to correct all the sufferings of our penitentiary system and present a new penitentiary operating and sustainable system. But, Minister, I fear that with the bill you have tabled, we are moving in the wrong direction. There are three points I should like to make: Firstly, with the provisions you have introduced for the decongestion of prisons, a large number of detainees are made redundant. And I ask: of over 12 thousand prisoners, how many will be released? How many isovites? How many criminals? How many robbers? How many killers? The Greek citizens must know, because it is a given that in the next few months the infraction will increase. And that's not all I'm saying. It's called too many people who deal with these things. A second point: you're photographing terrorist releases. Minister, with terrorism we have to be vertical. We're not dealing with each other. We're not talking. The terrorists have committed a supreme crime. With photographic provisions, we cannot meet requests from hoodiers, antiquators and others. I fear that by petting the ears of the hooded ones, we will unfortunately have worse events than what we have experienced so far. And I hope I'm not a spectator of bad news! Therefore, it is not possible to agree on provisions that give terrorists or people who move towards a free field of terrorism. We can't agree. A third point raised by many colleagues concerns the amendment tabled by the twenty-eight SYRIZA colleagues for the hoods. In fact, they call for the abolition of the order of the n-three. 3772/2009. I think it is wrong to do so, because we are actually setting the field free for terrorists, for potential terrorists to create situations, for vandalism, for burning. I will repeat an expression which made me very impressed by the current position of the SYRIZA rapporteur, the respecter Mrs Catrivan. He said that this law, the "gullman", as it is said, criminalised politics. I wanted to know what we were implying, saying, 'he criminalised politics'. Are molotovs a policy? Is this a policy on gas? Is Marfin a policy? We must be seated, ladies and gentlemen. In everything that encourages hoodiers, terrorists, illegitimate actions we have to be vertical and say absolutely no. And at this point I was impressed by the honourable Minister, Mr Voutsis, who said that dogmas, law and order, have nothing to do with the unlawful acts. But is it possible to say these things in this Chamber? What about the security climate of Greek citizens? I think that the Greek society has understood what has happened all these years, has isolated these phenomena and does not want to repeat such extreme situations and phenomena. So we have to admit that. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to say that we can build a better penitentiary system. Of course, the prisons must be dismantled. But there are other ways. And here is a time-consuming responsibility. All the governments who prosecuted the place have a responsibility. For example, I will mention Corfu, my constituency. Corfu prisons are very difficult prisons. In the past many years, however, there has been a debate on the closure of these prisons and the construction of another, new, modern prison outside the urban fabric. But nothing happened. So here is a glorious field to look at improving the current penitentiary system, to look at improving the medical care of detainees and living conditions. But we cannot leave the prisoners out just to dismantle prisons. I'll say one last thing. The Minister of Justice mentioned examples of former ministers who had been in contact with prisoners in uprising prisons. The ministers were right to do so. Then, of course, Minister, the demands were better living conditions, better food, better hygiene conditions, better visitability. We're talking terrorists. We're talking about hoodmen. Is that dialogue you want to have? As our parliamentary representative said this morning, of the six requests submitted by the anti-powered, you cover five. One more, the other one. So, then, we cannot consent to this bill, which closes the eye on the hoodmen, closes the eye on the terrorists and does not serve the national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u112	And we, Mr. Gika. Mrs Eleni Aylonitos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill "Reforms of criminal law, abolition of press detention stores and other provisions" brings us to deal with crime and punishment. It brings us, in other words, to deal with an issue that is the core of the state, and if you like, it is the most important reason for the state to exist. So I understand that such a bill gives rise to passions. But at the same time it shows basic philosophical differences and perceptions that exist between us. The philosophical differences are legitimate. Passions, however, are always a bad counselor for anyone who legislates. Passions usually hide fears that if they manage to take the form of law, they temporarily satisfy the stubbornness, but in the long term they harm society. Ladies and gentlemen, we call our prison system a penitentiary in the hope that there will be justice and rectification of offenders, of course through proportional punishment. Unfortunately, this optimism remains exclusively etymological. In practice, our prisons are at the best of cases where people are put in violations, so that they do not continue to harm the society as a whole and, at worst, are areas for continuing criminal activity, gang facilities and people's education, which have committed little violations of the secrets of the profession, so that the next time they have better know-how to commit greater infringements. But what makes our penitentiary system fail? Did the lack of resources? Is it the irrationality? All this is definitely inconsistent. But there's another parameter, vengeance. Having chosen between three distinct options, that is to say correct offenders and conscientious them, isolate them so that they do not harm society or avenge them, often - densely we choose a measured revenge. You see, it's easier. It's cheaper. It allows us to make a tenth reason for how strict we are with crime, but without doing anything to reduce it. The problem, however, is that it may be strict, but at the same time it may also be ineffective. This is the most important point, the most important problem of which our penitentiary system is suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the aim of a favoured country's penitentiary? I think we'll all agree that we need to reduce crime. On the basis of this criterion, the bill before us first seeks to bring out from our penitentiary system the useless rigour that is damaging to public security. We don't want to close minor offenders in institutions that make them career criminals. We want to bring them back useful citizens in society. We do not want to operate prisons as care institutions for disabled people who are objectively unable to commit criminal offences, because this does not promote public security. We do not want prisons that are impossible because of overcongestion to fulfil any penitentiary reintegrating prisoners into society. We do not want to leave in prison people who have served their sentence, because we have delayed deporting them and we do not know what to do with them. However, I hear colleagues extinguishing and saying that if the prisons are dismantled, there will be an outburst of lawlessness in the streets and we will be drowned. Suddenly we'll fill blind bombers, ultra-aged rapists and crippled robbers. I could perhaps take the relevant remarks as an indication of a different philosophy on the subject or as an indication, if you would like, of the hypersensitivity of some people to public policy issues, if we had not seen the results that the implementation of this approach has brought to the country in recent years. We all praised the Greek Police when it was dangerous and self-sacrificing to arrest Nikos Maziotis for the second time. But he was arrested for the second time, because our penitentiary system failed to keep him inside the first time he was arrested. We all praised the Greek Police when he managed to neutralise the plans devastated by the calf-bred rebels of the fire cores, along with - he says - with the hard criminals. But how did these two heirly teams get together? They met in prisons, where the supremacy of some ministers united them. Ladies and gentlemen, these have been the Minutes - I would say - the results of the endless attitude of the critics of today's bill in the recent past. So let us learn from mistakes from previous governments and not deserve to repeat them. I am voting in favour of today's bill as it stands. I consider this to be a very important first step for the country finally to have a modern and effective penitentiary system, a penitentiary system consistent with our political culture and the acquis communautaire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u114	Mr. Odysseus Constantinople has the floor. Mrs Fotini Vakis is next and we are entering the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the third bill of government. The government after the humanitarian crisis bill and 200 million, after the hundred-dollar bill, today chooses to bring a bill with the main person Savva Xirus and terrorism. But let us see the priorities of the government. Minister, should you not today bring in a bill to speed up the procedures for the administration of justice, which would help both citizens and the state? Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen: you are making commitments to the anti-powered area and not just. They beat the ladles and the ladles, and you dance. You do not negotiate openly or secretly with occupants. They're interlocutors of several Ministers. Mr Panoussis directly implied this, who asked the Prime Minister for his private meeting. And then he says the policy's changed. You are not carrying out orders and orders. The occupations, as our rapporteur has said, will only be stopped in the first phase when the law is passed. You're talking about terrorism, but your Minister, Mr. Panoussi, talked about dead. Is he a treacherous Memorial too? Ladies and gentlemen, today twenty-eight SYRIZA Members are asking to change the issues relating to the hoodmen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u116	‘Customian’. You called him a "Cuckulo"!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u117	‘Customian’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u118	Let me talk. We live in the era, Ministers, where in Skouria, we have had the great demonstration of the workers today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u119	El Dorado Protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u120	The 'EL DORADO' quite rightly. Let me talk a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u121	We're helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u122	We live in a time when the hoodmen, Mr. Voutsi,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u123	We arrived fine until 21:30. Don't ruin it. Let's vote calmly. Then, when he replaces me, let's fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u124	...have the opportunity, in the presence of your Member, Ms. Inglezi, to throw stones, screws and the honourable Member to make comments. And across are the workers, without hoods, who fight for their rights, even if you disagree. But they're without hoods. You want to because you know who they are. I'm sure Mrs. Iglezi knows who's wearing the hoods. And they're not residents, because people don't have to wear hoods.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u125	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u126	They are people from the anti-powered area, either from Athens or Thessaloniki. These people...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u127	It's a disgrace to what you're saying! If you have any evidence, tell them right now! You are accused of having...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u128	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u129	Mr. Diamantopoulou, you have said worse and no one is interrupting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u130	What have I said, Mr. President? I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u131	Then, Mr. Diamantopoulou. Sit down. To end the speaker and if there is a personal matter, I will give you the floor. Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u132	Why are you shouting, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u133	Continue, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u134	But even on this issue with Squirrels, there is still a hypocrisy of SYRIZA. I will present a report to you in 1994, when the President of SYRIZA Mr Konstantopoulos, along with the current Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Balafa, visited the Medals in Skouria. In fact, Mr Constantopoulos - I will present the report to you - and Mr Balafas and Mrs Xerotyri had asked for it at the time - because people who had raised environmental issues at the time - to stop this process towards TVX workers. I do not know whether it is different, if it is 'TVX' or 'EL DORADO', Mrs Kanellopoulou, but then there was a businessman. I do not understand why, at the time, the metalworkers were legal, but today they are illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u135	You're asking?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u136	Are you going to give us an answer about this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u137	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u138	... or then where is your Left and your President - the former President and today in the Sage Committee - doing the right thing, while anyone else goes, is an official of EL DORADO? Was the President of SYRIZA, Mr. Konstantopoulos, a TVX employee then? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u139	Will you talk a lot more about people absent and people who can't answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u140	You'll answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u141	Is there anything you can tell us about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, today the government through Mr Voutsi sent a clear message about who wants to go the next day. The government has decided on its next moves. She has decided who she wants to be, when she decides and takes her final decisions for the country itself and wants allies from the anti-powered area. This is the reality and none of us will be denied, because this time will come very soon. And I conclude with a quote to Mrs Constantopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u143	Let's go again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u144	Hold it for later, when it's going to be, to listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u145	It's okay. You'll pass it on to her. Let him be here! [[Noise - Protests]] Mr. Voutsi, you say too many times that if you fail, the Golden Dawn will come.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u146	You'll make a national unit!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u147	We didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u148	Listen to me. A few days ago, when the Chief of Staff Response spoke of illegal immigrants, the President said it was racism. Today, when a Golden Congressman used the same terminology, the President would fly a kite. I think you don't want to be the great sponsor of the Golden Dawn. I'm sure SYRIZA doesn't want the next day to have an ally on Golden Dawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u149	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u150	Are you asking for the floor on staff? Because I didn't hear Mr. Constantinople mentioned your face. Tell what the staff is first, and then I'll see if I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u151	Mr President, I asked for the floor on staff, not in a report by Mr Constantinople, but in a report by your own, and I would like to develop my reasoning. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u152	For reasons of purely sensitivity to me, otherwise you are out of order. You have the floor for one minute on staff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u153	In fact, there is a contradiction in what you say about your sensitivity, but I would like to put it in conflict with something else that has been going on in the Chamber since the beginning of this parliamentary term. Everyone is attacking the President of Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, saying that she is allegedly not objective from the step she is chairing and that she must actually change its tactics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u154	It's not a step, it's a chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u155	That is what you have also suggested, even in this sitting. But - come on, de! - the temptation is probably very sweet and you succumb. You mentioned that I had said worse than the Step of Parliament and that I was not interrupted by anyone. First of all, that is not an objective criterion. You are President and since you are President and preside over me I want you to tell me now what worst has been said by me. We can look back on the Minutes. If you don't call this off, and you don't apologize to me, I want you to tell me what I've said and it's worse. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u156	When I'm underneath, I'll answer you in detail. At the moment you have no answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u157	You said it from above, from the Chair. Revocation and apologise...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u158	You'll hear the answer underneath. Ideological catechism elsewhere, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u159	You must apologise for this behavior. You're revealing! You and the rest of you show up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u160	Mrs. Fotini Vakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u161	That's where you made the observation, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u162	Before I begin my speech, I will not resist temptation and address the previous speaker to say just one thing. Non-violent public acts of civil disobedience against environmental, ecological and economic crimes, for you, are equitable with terrorist action. I'm so sorry. You have shown us that this is your legal and political culture and that you have divorced from any reason about civil rights. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] To the object. Ladies and gentlemen, the spirit behind the bill to be passed by the Ministry of Justice on prisons reminded us that the Greek penitentiary system can proudly go through a post-Cesare Bekaria era, even with two centuries of delay. He reminded us that justice does not shrink into the retaliatory dimension of the eye against an eye. It's not a punishment. It's a penitentiary. He reminded us in other words that criminal hell, armored with moral and humanitarian principles, is not avenged, but prevents future manifestations of criminal behaviour. He reminded us that prisons are not human warehouses and prisoners are not invisible people - shadows without rights, which must reach the last point of their biological status, be dismantled, registered as disabled to demand certain rights. The unilateral function of the rights of detainees with the disability rate, how handicapped you are to give you elementary rights, not only does it divert the debate from the real purpose of the sentence, but it also misleads the rule of law in its own right. The impunity of the sentence for minors from thirteen to fifteen years, which is in line with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, prevents stigmatism, which involves almost certain return to prison. The same goes for drug addicts. The end of the detention of the elderly, who will be under house arrest after the seventeenth year of their age, ensure that people do not die in prisons. The articles on the disabled, the guests and the temporary prisoners will help decongested prisons, which are an undeniable condition of their humanisation. How many objectors of the above have visited prisons, operating as warehouses for endless relief of pain and suffering? How many people visited the Corridal Guardian Hospital, with double beds and patients living with cockroaches? The great contribution of the bill to the re-interpretation of prison is the abolition of the Columbia, the notorious Type III prisons, which are clearly governed by the logic of extermination of the prisoners. The logic of the Nazi concentration camps was to kill people in terms of industrial production of corpses, thus opening the way to the transformation of people into raw materials and thus to their dehumanisation. Before the 21st century went bankrupt, the infamous war against terrorism began, and in the name of security, relaxed political rights, turned the planet into a surveillance system and inaugurated preventive wars, preventive arrests and the "Guantanamo" mediation of proud democracy. The abolition of Type III prisons is tantamount to restoring democracy, restoring equality and proportionality, the statutes, i.e. the principles of a rule of law. This not only in terms of the logic of vengeance and extermination which characterise imprisonment but also in terms of the criteria for subjecting the prisoners to the status of those prisons, which smuggle the rightful civilization, since they are structured in subjectively relevant and therefore precarious risk crises, which are carried out by the prosecutor, namely a single representative. Finally, with regard to the propaganda of a bill photographed by Savva Xiros, some rhetoric questions: I wonder, and the bodies found in the House on 8 April, such as Associations of Justice, Federation of Penitentiaries, Citizens' Counselor, Greek Union for Human Rights, among others, are friendly about terrorism? Mrs Vassiliki Thanos, President of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors who, at the hearing of bodies in Parliament, stated - and I quote her own words - : 'When an inmate in prison has 80% disability and has also served a large part of his sentence and since the prisons cannot give him the opportunity to deal with this great disability problem, why should the Union of Judges object to the rest of his sentence under house arrest?' Does the European Court of Human Rights also share in favour of Xero, when it condemned billions in Greece, first in September 2010 and again in March 2011? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to hold the debate on a major bill that changes the legal charter in terms of 'baboo'. What helps to cultivate and consolidate democracy, to extend the detention of a man almost dying, whoever he is? I don't care about the name. Is it possible for an institutional debate on a penitentiary system to lead to an interpersonal relationship between the victim and the victim? Human life is undeniably unique and unequivocal and no law can bring it back. No one can no doubt count the human pain. Hannah Ared highlighted forgiveness, not only as a statuteal term of the human condition but also as a one-way for survival of societies injured by the horror of the Holocaust and the Nazi atrocities. No one, however, can claim from their victims and relatives, neither forgiveness nor vengeance. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] Or to put it differently: legal culture of modernity goes beyond the customary law of the obligation to vengeance blood and makes legislative and judicial authority, i.e. a third, responsible for forgiveness or punishment. However, revenge as the sole guide of the penitentiary system specialises in totalitarian regimes rather than in democracies. And in democracy human rights, legal provisions that humanise prison conditions by tearing prisons into prison and sabotage without being avenged, are not a la carte and do not apply on a case-by-case basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Another speaker will speak while I am informed by the services, Mrs Helena Fishrea, and then we will vote in the first place, and I will also inform you of the procedure that we are going to follow. Here, Mrs. Fishera, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u164	Thank you. With this bill, SYRIZA implements a pre-election commitment, which is an urgent need, a first series of important legal changes that abolish extreme authoritarianism, strengthen vulnerable social categories, such as minor and minor detainees, over-ages or patients with severe illness and high disability rates. A fundamental concept of the bill is the idea that the sentence itself is an adequate measure for the prisoner. On the other hand, the way in which the sentence is made under inhumane conditions leads to a second and more severe punishment and, in essence, to a second sentence which is more inhuman and more cruel than the first one. In particular, the type III prison experiment is an internationally failed penitentiary experiment, where it was implemented, in Italy and Germany earlier and recently in Turkey, not only did it not increase the safety of citizens and prisoners but it led to uprisings and heavy costs in human lives. Prisons without a framework of respect for the rights of detainees are the most places of escalation of violence, whether between prisoners and prisoners or between prisoners themselves and against themselves in the form of suicide. No surprise that this bill is treated by conservative, neoliberal forces with screams for law and order and with the practice of terrorist-hysteria. We'd be surprised otherwise. These forces are facing the penitentiary system, not primarily as a means of restoring crime but as a tank to impoverish the most deprived and as a means of mental and physical neutralization of the detainees. They are aware of the fact that humanity and the mildest building of the sentence are really reformist measures. Reintegration measures into society, measures to curb offense. They are aware that people who live under extremely oppressive penitentiary conditions can claim better detention conditions. When that happens, they're indifferent. And when people's lives are at stake, they're indifferent again. But militarisation of the prison's operation does not work against society. On the contrary, it runs counter to the basic rule of the penitentiary which is reintegration. The shortening of rights puts a life-long segregation between the prisoner and the society. In this way the prison is seen as the fate of the prisoners and the way back to society is forsaken forever. In a very positive direction, the limit of conditional dismissal is reduced. The reduction of the limits is based on the fact that the overcoming of a significant threshold for the creation of a penalty, above 2/5, is not in the direction of preventing other offences from being committed by the detainee, but on further deterioration of physical and mental integrity, as well as the consolidation of a torque towards social isolation and the recourse to infraction as a single point of social reference. You argue that redundancies should not be horizontal. However, current criminal law accepts dismissal for all perpetrators of serious criminal offences. He accepts it until now and before the current regulation. Therefore, this argument stands against any humanistic perception of criminal law in general. There is also a very positive extension of the conditional dismissal beyond the current cases and in disabled persons over 50%, since they cannot serve themselves and not only those over 67%, as well as the realisation of the sentence at home to those who are disabled over 80% and have already served ten years since the sentence of life imprisonment. Regardless of gravity or the type of act and contrary to the logic of autocratic terrorism, people who are heavy patients and disabled must be able to be fired. Democracy and the rule of law cannot form a vengeful social and human anachronistic reality. Prisoners under the above conditions must be able to live the rest of their lives in human conditions and conditions. To die in prison a heavily disabled prisoner is a reproach for society and not some form of supposedly defending democracy. I would like to focus on the parliamentary amendment to abolish the provisions of the so-called 'Culturer'. Those provisions restrict punishment by reason of a behaviour which is neither reasonable nor proportionate to extend the penalty itself, since the circumstances of the execution of the crime or the motives or the manner of termination are taken into account in accordance with Article 79 of the Criminal Code. The increase in the penalty threshold due to the hood is useless and dangerous. Your logic, the logic of the previous governments, was to increase administrative measures, to gamble the repressive mechanism to cope with the popular anger caused by the barbarity of your anti-immigration policies. The previous government, but also the prosecution authorities, have so far made not only use but also clear abuses of these provisions against protesters. It is also a positive amendment to change the receipt of DNA in order to prevent it being forced to take it and in a way which offends human dignity. The bill as a whole addresses the problem of prison overcompensation, restores and strengthens human rights. Overcompensation of prisons in recent years, particularly prisoners who have been poor, migrants, immigrants, innocence and homeless, leads to what is internationally characterised as the management of poverty through the criminal and penitentiary system. For us, poverty and social exclusion are related to the memoranda, the extreme neoliberal policy of recent years in our country and Europe. For us, redistribution in a philosophical and enterprising direction is the best, most lasting and most effective counter-crime and counter-trial measure. Prison for thousands of prisoners and prisoners is their home, as is those who spend half the day there. Can you describe how this house should be? Because we can describe how he is now. Cemetery conditions. And that is what we aspire to change. In these circumstances of crisis, when the precipitation of unemployment, poverty, injustice and ultimately impoverishment concerns a large part of society, the concern of those who live in detention is not extinguished. The pain and ignorance of each and every one strengthens solidarity and vindication for all. That's our idea. The answer, therefore, cannot but be the reduction of poverty, the solution to its most extreme forms and the economic and social redistribution to the detriment of those who have been enriched for years by enlargement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Fishera. I'm still being informed by the services, so I'm going to give another speaker the opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u166	You're welcome, Madam President. Please! There's been a deal with Mr. Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u167	The next speaker is Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, and we shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u168	Fortunately, we are keeping up with what we have agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the first time a serious attempt to rationalise the penitentiary system. A visit to the prisons of the country will suffice to see that the Greek penitentiary system is suffering. I will not mention the judgments of the European Court of Justice here, and I will not mention the internationally in force - many colleagues and colleagues have spoken before me. This bill with the twelve articles, which it is developing, is the basis - it is not a fragmentary one - to establish a future strategic plan for the penitentiary system. I say that the bill rationalises and reforms one of the most important systems of public life. In a country that we are talking about on the night of reforms, it is time to prove what kind of reforms we want. Reforms do indeed have political, ideological, social and cultural content. They're not colourless politicians. It's more like ideoscopy, more ideology. I note in this Chamber that many parties, particularly the central ones, forget it. For the same reason, rationalisation and election are not colourless and mechanical issues. These have been known for two centuries. So, then, a reformist system, such as the penitentiary attempted by this bill to do, is progressive when it works manually, when it induces society to think differently, when it obliges it to constantly review its own fears, when it causes it to reconstruct the public space for those who surround and those who block each time in humanitarian and judicial ways. When I say humanitarian ways I deem it to be a deeply rational concept. I give her, in other words, the concept of justice, the constant claim for justice, democracy and equality. The 12 beneficial provisions of the bill are precisely in this spirit of rationalisation with the content of the ongoing claim, which a State is obliged to dialectically. I would like to stress the word 'double' because it appears in this Chamber, although it is Parliament, that we have forgotten it. Mr. Fortsakis, in his speech, gave us a definition of the sentence. I'm a little surprised because I'm not a legal person. However, I know that the principle of penal justice includes by definition the concept of punishment for criminal offences. Punishment lies in depriving freedom, but not basic human rights, and must be treated as an instrument and not as an end in itself. The abolition, for example, of Type III prisons, the more flexible treatment of minors, respect for heavy diseases, the recognition of drug dependence as a disease and not as another criminal act do nothing but try to restore the basic principles of penitentiary at the forefront by abolishing not just the punishing nature, but the avengement of this. It is perfectly understandable that the New Democracy, with its extreme right-wing logic in this party, seeks to address the bill in terms of terrorism, hysteria, anarchy, violence, etc. It therefore sets out a bill on the penitentiary system on the far-right line of intimidation - violence, anarchy, terrorism - presenting it as the climax of the political actions of a left-wing government, but as the left was present at the most brutal post-war times of this country. I fully understand the objections to Mrs Bakoyannis' personal level. However, the legislator, as hard as personal experiences, is obliged to go beyond them and cannot make photographic exceptions, because in this case they would be photographic exceptions. However, I would like to stress one thing in this Chamber. The Left, our Left, has fought against terrorism. We have a huge literature on how terrorism affects us. As Angel Elephant wrote, who will be unknown to many of you, "in the funds of democracy the Left has many testimonies". I wonder: In these funds, the Right of Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Voridis, how many statements he has? With the axe? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The strange thing is not the attitude of the New Democracy. The strange thing is the attitude of the river and PASOK. I see that another way completely favours this far-right rhetoric. In the name of ideology, they believe that reforms at any level cannot have ideological content. But what they do is nothing but open up not the ferry but the basilica gate to the entire extreme right rhetoric. I shall conclude by saying that Mr Venizelos has shown the contradictions of SYRIZA, as Minister Voutsi said. The effort being made is for SYRIZA to appear as an irresponsible party, which does nothing but lead the country to destruction. In closing, I will quote a quote not from a left, but from a rather right-wing politician, Mrs Simon Vale. Between 1957-1964 he directed the penitentiary system of France and stressed: "In the long run, necessary for the French penitentiary system to come to a decent level, good intentions run counter to an obstacle more difficult than economic difficulties. And that is the situation of the spirit of social and cultural parties." That is what you are trying to keep doing here from what I have heard: a situation of fear and intimidation against the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u170	Thank you very much to Mrs Readstopoulou. We have completed the speakers in the first place and we will vote in the first place. However, one of the special speakers who would not today like to take the lead on the articles, Mr Fotamis from the Potami region, asked for three minutes of second language in the first place. If there is no objection, I propose that the Member should be given the opportunity to speak. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor. You can also typically speak from your position, because your speaking time is below seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u171	Thank you, Madam President. I'm getting to know them slowly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendments tabled by the bill, the two are from the Minister and the other two from SYRIZA Members. Of course, we don't know if the Minister will accept them. I shall refer to the articles, as the President said, at the sitting tomorrow. The first amendment concerned the transfer of the Public Order portfolio to the Ministry of Justice. Fortunately, the Government two days after the tabling of this late amendment withdrew it on the grounds that it would reconsider this possibility in future. Obviously, the government understood the desirability of this decision and we are pleased that it has taken into account our concerns. But we can only say that the government first announces a legislative initiative and then checks whether it is right. In other words, the sloppyness with which it is going is confirmed. The other two amendments were tabled by SYRIZA Members. The first concerns the abolition of the provisions of Articles 25 and 27 of Law 3772/2009 and the amendment of provisions of the Criminal Code and of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In essence, it refers to increasing penalties to five total crimes, provided for in Articles 189, 308A, 310, 380 and 382 of the Criminal Code, when committed by persons with covered or corrupted characteristics. Because there has been a lot of confusion and misinformation with this particular issue, what we must say is what both Mr Athanasios and Mr Georgiadis have already pointed out in his own way, that this is not a specific crime, that is, an attempt or a preparatory action for basic crimes which are punishable by a particular penalty, but a devastating case of specific crimes. I mean, someone's not punished because he's wearing a hood. He is punished more severely because he committed a crime wearing a hood, covering his characteristics. In other words, the hood itself is not a crime, but only a burden on a crime already committed. The second amendment by SYRIZA Members relates to the amendment of Article 200A of the Code of Criminal Procedure and concerns the receipt of DNA. I would like to stress two points. When the Criminal Code says taking DNA is compulsory, this does not mean that the perpetrator is forced to give a sample of DNA in order to obtain an expert opinion. When the law states that reception is compulsory, it means that the interrogator who handles and is aware of the case does not have discretion whether or not to request a sample of DNA. He's obligated to ask. Whether the perpetrator will give it or not is clearly at his own discretion. That is what the law says, and we need to clarify it in order to avoid misunderstandings and misinterpretations. The fourth amendment concerns rules on house arrest. This amendment seeks to abolish the temporary detention of divorced spouses, contractions and relatives of blood up to and including a second degree, and it is worth wondering that the government felt the need to bring in another provision, particularly when mental pressure is already recognised by favourable regulations, which exist before the Criminal Code, in particular Articles 231 and 232, which concern the persons concerned in general. In particular, Articles 231 and 232 of the Criminal Code, which deal with the main trial of accused persons for the treatment of criminals or the evacuation of criminals from their homes, provide for the compulsory exemption of those indictees. The interrogator is aware of this during the preliminary investigation procedure, and of course he is able not to confiscate the defendant, since he knows that in the main proceedings the defendant will be relieved. So in the very few cases where the defendant will be ordered to be safeguarded, even though he knows that in the main proceedings he will be relieved, it means that the knowledge of the whole case shows clear evidence that he will again forensics or that he is a suspect of fleeing. Do you, Minister, think it would be wiser to bypass the natural judge, who - I repeat - has the full picture of all the case-file, withholding and underestimating his work? I think you're moving in the wrong direction. Under no circumstances can we accept horizontal releases of detainees solely on the basis of their age and health reasons, without any assessment of their personality. And we certainly cannot agree with the stacking of all detainees, regardless of crimes, in one place, nor can we consent to leaving minors unprotected, hostage organised circuits to be exploited. Potami will not consent to the reproduction of outdated and failed past practices, in the recipes that have been tested and have failed on a continuous basis. Unfortunately, the government does not allow us to vote in favour of this bill at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr President, as you requested, we will omit you from the suggestions in the introduction to articles and amendments and you will make your position tomorrow in the first place on articles and amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u173	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote at first reading and then give you an update before entering the debate on the subject. The debate on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Reforms of criminal provisions, abolition of press detention stores and other provisions". We will vote on the principle of majority voting in the same way as we have explained this morning. However, since there are some parties which are not represented as a whole, but by the parliamentary representatives, I would ask that the parties be given a further statement. Those who accept the bill will say "HAI". It's not by elevation. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u175	I would ask the Commission to give us an account of this, and I would ask the Council to give us an account of this. The New Democracy through its rapporteur?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u176	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u177	Golden Dawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u178	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u179	The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u180	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u181	The Communist Party of Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u182	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u183	The Independent Greeks have voted "NAI". PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u184	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u185	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Reforms of criminal provisions, abolition of press detention stores and other provisions" was accepted in the first place by a majority. [[Applause]] Before entering the debate on the articles, you will allow me - given that issues have been raised before this House - to make some very brief information statements. Firstly, in relation to the Committee on Institutional Affairs, I asked the Conference of Presidents today to complete an unofficially that exists and is the appointment of a replacement - deputy to the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, namely Mr Kaklamani, who is involved. The two parties that are entitled by their Vice-Presidents to replace the First Vice-President, that is, Potami and the Communist Party of Greece, have reserved to consult and inform us until the next meeting who will replace the fourth Vice-President. Other uncertainties with the final designation of the Authority's President for Leverage have been completed on Thursday. Therefore, one of the external factors that we expect appointments and notifications has been completed on the Great Thursday, namely a few days ago. The Conference of Presidents will appoint the Vice-President of the First Vice-President and will remain the last act that I will appoint as President of the Parliament, the Vice-President who will chair the committee. The committee will therefore be set up very promptly and I think that we should deal with those issues which cannot really be left either unprocessed or unexplained. Secondly, in all directions and to those who do not understand: the position of the President of the Parliament is that the word 'lathromatic immigrant' from whomever it is brought is racist and must be avoided. It must not be expressed in Parliament. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Anyone who does not understand, obviously wants us to forget about the act of legislation in which detention centres were established. Thirdly, I will answer and deny only to the extent that it relates to the functioning of Parliament and how open it is or is not Parliament. It moves through reports, through websites - which insist on misinformation because they do not learn from their suffering - that they allegedly asked for a miners' delegation to see the President of the Parliament and supposedly rejected this request. I would point out, therefore, that he has asked for a delegation of three people to see the President of Parliament. He informed them of my office that of course they can see the President of Parliament, only at the time the Conference of Presidents was held, in which we participated. They were asked to wait, they said they cannot wait today and they will come back tomorrow. These are for those who insist on acting as a monetizer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u186	The Conference of Presidents was not held at that time, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u187	The policy of the House in relation to the rallying, in relation to movements and citizens in general, whoever they are, is the practice of the open parliament. That is why we opened the House and accepted the anti-fascist rally two months ago, we opened the House on the day against racism - 21 March - and I accepted all the migrant communities, and even in the Senate Hall we had a lively debate, which was also disturbed, and we open the door to the House in society and everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u188	But not the workers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u189	Similarly, the gate of Parliament opened in the morning to those relatives who were victims of terrorist attacks who wanted to share material and protest about the bill, the portal of Parliament opened up and carried out this protest and this exercise of constitutional rights. I think we should all be trained in more democracy and not be disturbed, because when some exercise these things we may feel oppressed when we exercise them we feel that we are being released. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the debate on the articles. I'll give the floor to SYRIZA's rapporteur...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u190	I would like to speak on a point of order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u191	Does the Minister want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u192	Mrs Catrivanou, we are starting with the rapporteurs in this debate, unless the Minister wants to intervene and suggest. They didn't realize that. Do you want the floor, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u193	I could say a few words.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u194	I would like to speak on a point of order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u195	Of course, Minister. Mr. Mitsotakis, after the Minister, I will give you the floor to have another forty-five minutes on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u196	You will not make any remarks to me, especially you who have been late for forty-five minutes, to be clear! And leave the ironies in this Chamber at last! We've had enough of you! Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u197	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u198	Madam President, I am speaking - if I am not mistaken - to say a few words about the first article, to which we are entering now. I think it has been well explained that the abolition of this model, of this type of prison, promotes humanism, especially because it was a shop that could not have sufficient care conditions, but I think it has been sufficiently explained that the abolition of this type of shop will entail more security for our country, since there will be a scattered system of safety wings in its place. I regret that this has often been explained and yet ignored by some, as have been said, MPs. It seemed that it hasn't been heard. I would therefore like to reiterate that the maintenance of parts, wings with increased security measures also results from the letter of the article, which you are asked to vote on, which is reserved for the provisions of Article 11(4) and (5), which mentions the possibility of increased safety wings. If I have one more minute, Madam President, I would like to correct something that has been heard and which may have nothing to do with the first article. It is a general matter, and it is not a personal matter, but it must be corrected for those who are concerned. I heard that Athanasios Kanellopoulos, George Kouvelakis and Evangelos Venizelos had a dialogue with rebellious prisoners because the demands were then light and concerned the conditions of detention, etc. I must say that the 1990 requests concerned the abolition of the death penalty, which was then the case and were the subject of homicides. I must also tell you that in the 1990 demands there was the abolition of the 'terror', which was abolished in 1993 and of course came back in new form, more extensive, later. I must also tell you that among the demands submitted to Evangelos Venizelos in 1996 was the dismantling of serious delinquents, including drug abuse, but also other serious regulations of the Criminal Code. It was very serious the arrangements for which the Ministers at the time were honouring them to enter into dialogue, as was important and the dialogue step, which my predecessor, Mr Athanasios, has attempted and carried out, when a question of bracelet was raised about the possibility of a prisoner attending courses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Mitsotakis, are you insisting on a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u200	Madam President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u201	Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u202	Madam President, I want the floor for a minute. I have heard, Madam President, that you have been reluctant to make some rebuke to colleagues because they use the term 'death immigrant'. I would like to make it clear in this Chamber that censorship is not acceptable - and not from you. Colleagues have the right to express themselves freely and to use the conditions they consider most appropriate. I would ask you to avoid them from now on. They are getting away with your responsibilities. Secondly, you said that you were unable to see a mission, a representation of the Skouria workers who asked to meet you because the Conference of Presidents was meeting at the same time. I happened to meet them when they walked into the House. The time was exactly 15.15 ́. As I participated in the Conference of Presidents, I would ask you next time to be a little more precise. When you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u203	Looks like they asked to see you before me. Because I was asked to be seen, Mr. Mitsotakis, at 17:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u204	It happened, to make it easier, to escort them to your office. Next time, I would ask you, when you want to avoid meetings that may be unpleasant, to be at least more precise, because there is a complete record of when these people entered the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u205	Madam President, is that on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u206	Instead of opening the House with so much comfort to various protesters who, in your own blessing, protest on the steps of this House, it is good to show them the same tolerance for workers who your own government is firing off on your own initiatives. But obviously because these discussions will be a little unpleasant for you, that is why you found the clever excuse that you were at the Conference of Presidents, which reminds you that it started just at 17.00, once again with a delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u207	Madam President, can I, on a point of order, speak a mere MEP?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u208	Say it, sir, I'll do it with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u209	Mr Balaura, that's not what this is all about. Honestly, all I have to say in relation to the observation that the word'migrants' falls within the freedom of expression is that your view is controlled mainly by the reports of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe by Mr Niels Muizniks, who, for such reports, unfortunately, officials of your government, has received very positive comments and conclusions for our country. I would suggest that you do not insist on this. Of course you have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u210	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u211	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u212	And how is the word 'lathonists' translated into English to interpret it? So how does he know? How does she have an opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u213	Secondly, I would like to tell you that my briefing is that the people who asked to see me at 7 p.m. - I said obviously to you earlier, but I was asked for 5 p.m. - will be back tomorrow and I will meet them. I have this briefing, unless you guys have another briefing. The third, in relation to the right of those protesting on the steps of the perimeter: Today, they protested on the steps of the perimeter and specifically shared 10 people, Mrs. Despina Androylidakis, Mrs Alexia Bakoyannis, Mrs. Ireni Momferatos, Mr. George Momferatos, Mrs. Stavroula Axarlian, Mr. Nikolaos Peraiikos, Mr. Michael Peraiikos, Mrs. Marina Avranopoulos, Mr. Dimitrios Vranopoulos and Mr. Stelios Kilias.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u214	They did not protest, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u215	Because they gave their names! Because they had an entrance to the House, Madam President. They didn't illegally enter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u216	They have been dignified, Madam President, they have given a name and surname.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u217	Therefore, Mr Mitsotakis, they also exercised a constitutional right. I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u218	They had an entrance to the House, Madam President. You're missing that they had access to the House. They didn't illegally enter. They did not invade the House, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u219	Now what do you want? You're saying you licensed the gallery? Say it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u220	Sure. These people were legal within the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u221	He's not in doubt. They were invited to the gallery. But there was also a demonstration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u222	Of course, it was legal within the House. Can we clarify this, Madam President? They didn't invade the House with the fortress's tolerance!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u223	Come on, Mr. Mitsotakis. I think they've all been revealed and no hiding place under the sun.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u224	All of it! That's for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u225	We can remember many other lyrics if you want. Come on, Mrs. Catrivanu, suggest on the articles. I suggest we give 12 minutes for a comfort. It's eleven articles of the bill. The Rules of Procedure shall normally provide for four minutes for each article. I strongly suggest that we say 12 minutes with a tolerance. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, Madam President, we have been in this process all day, which we can only observe the poverty of the New Democracy. It's impressive. I am referring to poverty for the bill. We have a full, direct and literal government matching with terrorism by the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Georgiadis, and by eminent officials, such as Mr Vorides. I was covered by Mr. Voutsi's answer. But I think it is useful to place the other members of the New Democracy, if they agree with this position, as well as the other parties, such as the PASOK and the Potami and the other parties, who did not show any particular difference. I would like a position on this to identify the government with terrorism. Do you agree? It remains here, mainly on the side of the New Democracy and the other parties, the policy of fear and all the propaganda on iniquity, for misery. In fact, at some point the people who voted SYRIZA were also memorized. They said: “That’s what you deserved. You get what SYRIZA told you. You deserved it." Is it possible to hear these things in here? Apparently they don't have anything else to say. Because for this bill two things have been heard: or government identification with terrorism or hate speech for deported criminals. For something else, for structural changes, for the penitentiary system, for what we are talking about here, about the state of prisons and how it can get better, we had no room. I don't want to go down that road. He's slippery and he's dangerous and the world has a crisis. You will allow me before entering the articles, however, to stand on another piece. This morning we heard locations from people who had lost and lost their own human being. I think in these cases, as far as anyone knows, that has not gone through anything like that, pain is indelible, stigmatization, that stigma is something that is intrinsic in your life. And that can't be questioned. No one is entitled to question it. I became a MP, worked in the resolution of conflicts with various groups and had the opportunity to work with Palestinian and Israeli women, who each side had lost some parts of her family, children and men. Pain and rage existed. But I was impressed - I must confess to you - what it is that sits these two sides together. How could these enemies, who should be unable to withstand each other, sit together in one room and try to do something different? I remember when I asked the Palestinians - but then both sides said the same - they said: 'Look, I have children and my children should help them live in a better world. To do this, I cannot stay in my pain alone in my anger and in my revenge, because he is a vicious circle and at some point has to be broken and must be broken, because I owe it, I want something different." This was said by women rural women and women who were at university and various others. It was this agony to break the vicious circle of revenge. I think we should keep this. I believe that someone who has experienced such experiences is entitled to have all feelings - and hatred and rage and regret - and has no obligation to forgive, even though I have seen this glimpse of human existence and conciliation, I keep it within me, because it gives me hope for what I have described to you. But you can't pressure anyone and everyone's making their personal journey in this piece. But I'll say one thing. As undeniable as this pain and rage - and I fully respect it - cannot be the criterion of how the state debates and institutionalises, a state of law, a rule of law. I shall proceed with this draft law, starting with the amendments that we have tabled, in order to ensure my time, because we have spoken about the articles and the presentation in the morning. I shall therefore start with the amendments and continue with as much time as I have left with the articles. We have tabled an amendment, therefore, to abolish the so-called 'Culturer'. It is the abolition of Articles 25 and 27 of 37722009. This law is an unacceptable law, which came after December 2008, after the assassination of Gregopoulou. It has been heard here by Mr Georgiadis that we do not catch people for their shoes and for their yellow socks and everything else. But at that time, people dragged into trials about his glasses, about wearing a mask to protect themselves from tear gas, and let's prove you're not an elephant. The law criminalises the hood itself and not the execution of the crime. We say that the act must be punished, but not criminalise the hood. I would remind you that at the time PASOK had reacted to the vote on the bill and Mr Kastanides, then Minister for Justice, had set up a legislatorial committee proposing the abolition of the provisions of the "couldow". Before the elections, when all parties were questioned who are in favour of the abolition of the "collage", all parties were in favour, except Golden Dawn and the New Democracy. At the moment, I haven't heard from PASOK about this infamous law. Have you changed your position? On the river I did not hear anything consistent with it, the opposite! We would like to place you: Do you agree with your election announcements? It's a similar thing as criminalizing the gloves in a robbery, i.e. questioning it in a robbery. In the previous provision, it was true that the judge could judge as competent if the circumstances in which the offence was committed deserve a greater penalty and that ends the matter. We do not criminalize clothing and even the way it was used. The Criminal Association had made statements at that time against the "cooper" and sixty-four lawyers had objected to it. I'm continuing with the guarantees in taking DNA for judicial use. It is the second amendment that we are tabling, and it concerns the amendment of Article 200A of the Code of Criminal Procedure. What we are proposing is not the abolition of DNA to identify the perpetrator. However, we are proposing the necessary guarantees for the reception of genetic material during the criminal procedure. We believe that violence to get DNA is a torture, which insults the hard core of man's dignity. We also propose the appointment of a technical consultant, which is already provided for in the current provision. Our proposal suggests that this technical consultant enters the first stage of the process. Of course, we know how it has been used in many cases and indeed in the case of the Squirrels' movement at the moment. Our amendment is in line with Articles 2, 5 and 7(2) of the Constitution, Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and the specific recommendation of the Council of Europe on the use of DNA analysis in the criminal proceedings. I'm going to go into the articles, because we've made them. However, I will say that the key line in this bill is that security and humanity for the prisoners, the convicts and the convicts can go hand in hand, is not the opposite. They are compatible and they are served by each other. So we suggest the abolition of Type III prisons. For in the case of Type III prisons, beyond that there was no security that is distributed, as the Minister explained, namely, the entire bill was talking about the deprivation of the rights of detainees. He didn't mention anything about security. This shrinkage brings the people inside extermination by restricting their licenses, participation in lessons, correspondence. So, what are you doing to them? You're abandoning them, developing violence in prison, violence among prisoners, violence between penitentiaries and prisoners. How will you negotiate this violence and the corruption that will exist so that people can survive in such circumstances? That is why European experience shows that these prisons have failed. They've failed because they've detonated crime. They have increased the rates of relapse, they have increased violence, they have increased corruption, they have increased the network of organised crime. It is a failed experiment, beyond being unconstitutional and an incision to our legal culture. In Article 2, there is an initial intervention in favour of vulnerable groups of minors, adults, patients and disabled persons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the case of minors, alternative measures on incarceration are chosen, while the option remains with strict criteria for specific reasons. All the actors welcomed this initiative, because no one accepts that even a transgressive minor will find his way if he stays inside prison. I personally was surprised at the positions of the river on this matter. We have heard that young children are growing faster, so criminalisation must come down to age limits. We have heard incomprehensible things about this. So we heard that if we let them out, they'll get into criminal mafias. I think that from such a party, which in any case has liberal, rightful positions, it is unthinkable to hear such things. For over-aged people over seventy-five years, the home-made realisation of the sentence and the beneficial calculation of days of study for older, disabled and infants shall be adopted. The system of the actual dismissal becomes more rational, more fair and includes, for the first time, isovious detainees with a disability threshold of 80%. These prisoners are not released, they are serving the rest of their sentence at home. And that obliges us to do so the conditions we have in the prison hospital, where we have deaths and suicides. The bill also reforms the conditions for the judicial expulsion of foreigners, so that people are not detained simply because their expulsion is impossible, so that there is no charge of euphemism among the guests. Finally, I shall refer to two other articles, Madam President. Article 4 defines the already satisfactory framework of the Legislative Act on Continental Substances. Of course, he prefers treatment instead of prison. It ensures that people who have been disrespected and destroyed do not come back to prison again. Article 6 relates to exceptional measures for the dismantling of prisons on conditionality, in accordance with the penalties imposed. The horrendous detention conditions in the Greek prisons impose this. We want to make a proposal, which we have made, but I think others too. In Article 10, concerning recruitment, you have predicted the recruitment of five hundred penitentiaries. We would like you to cut off from there or not to cut off, but anyway to strengthen teachers, social workers, psychologists, people who really need in Greek prisons. And you know that, Minister. It's within your logic, it's within the logic of the government, it's within the logic of the bill. I'll say one more thing and I'll be done. I will make a statement about the position of the Golden Dawn, which I have heard many times in the Special Committee on Penitentiary. We've been there for two and a half years. So far, the positions have been mainly for the criminals who are being held and for the benefit of penitentiary officials and the external guard. I have now found that through the experience of incarceration their placement has changed. We are also talking about prisoners, about conditions. That's very positive. But I think it is very important that the trial that comes, which concerns defending the rule of law and democracy, is very important because democracy respects rights and is also shielded. We're telling you that if anyone's sick and has these specifications, of course, wherever he comes, we'll be with him to get out. I shall end by saying this: it is a bill that is the beginning of bringing an end to the shame of prisons. Because, as all the institutions have said, in order to make any intervention that will change these terrible conditions, it needs decongestion, this is the beginning and this bill does it. And he does and gives a breath for the people who are inside, a breath for their families, a breath for the penitentiary officials, and he makes the necessary beginning for further intervention. It's not everything, it's just the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. Before we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr Kikilia, I should like to inform you of the procedure and move on. Firstly, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has been informed that his parliamentary group intends to submit a request for a roll-call vote on articles in the bill. As far as I am concerned, no such request has been made. However, taking into account the information received, what I am proposing is that, if this request is submitted, the roll-call vote will take place tomorrow at 20 a.m., so the debate will have the opportunity to conclude with everyone's views, given that the procedure begins at 12 noon. The second thing I would like to say is that the list of speakers has been opened and will remain open until the fourth rapporteur has been placed. However, I would like to inform you of the following: we have three rapporteurs, Mr Foelila from Potami, Mr Gioka from the Communist Party of Greece and Mr Kokkalis from the Independent Greeks, who said they will not be placed today, but tomorrow. Therefore, the fourth rapporteur will be the rapporteur for PASOK, Mrs Gennamas, and the list will remain open for registration until the completion of her position. I would like to point out that there are Members who are registered and preferred, that is to say, that the list of Members continues at the beginning of the debate. Some, however, as I am being informed, are being rewritten. If you have no special reason to change your order, don't do that, because anyway you're registered. With these clarifications, I call on the second rapporteur, Mr Vassilis Kikilia, to take the step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u228	Madam President, what time are we going to finish today?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u229	The question is what time we'll end today. Listen, it's 10:45. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the sittings are closed at 12 o'clock. Ms Charalapidou, the third Vice-President of the Parliament, who will then preside over, informed me that she intends to stay until 1,00 in order to speak more. I think we should take advantage of it, given that we won't have an early meeting this morning. The sitting will start at 12 noon, unless there is an objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u230	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u231	Here you go, Mrs. Gerovali.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u232	Madam President, before - you did not preside over - on a point of order, we agreed to conclude the debate this evening at 12 noon and to continue normally tomorrow. I think there's enough time for the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u233	Wonderful. That's why I tried to get informed by the Services about what he's broke through. That's not what I was told.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u234	This was done before, and we agreed to end the debate at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u235	Good. If, then, the wish to interrupt at 12 noon, then we will continue with the rapporteurs, we will also enable some speakers to place themselves on the table if they want to interrupt. Here, Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u236	Thank you, Madam President. I would ask you before I begin - and I am addressing you, I think, after so many hours of sitting with calm tones - to say this: I think that the victims of terrorism or their families cannot be equated with anyone who can protest or not protest these last few days in the galleys of this House, within or outside. Because we are talking about people from the anti-powered area who have invaded Parliament and you thought that it is within the limits of parliamentarianism or good practice to share their pamphlets of anarchist space within Parliament, I would like to say that, in my personal opinion, but also of the New Democracy, it cannot, Madam President, be equated with the victim. In particular - and taking into account what the SYRIZA rapporteur, my friend, Mrs Catrivan, has put here from the Step forward - for these people and for what they have experienced throughout the transition from terrorism there cannot be any equation. In our worthy code, that is foreign and it is annoying. So, if you want, and if you think it should be worth it, at the end of my speech, to make a recast about it. They weren't any guests in the House, in the gallery or in Peristylion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u237	Mr Kikilia, since you asked to make this intervention before the start and because, as you have seen, I have tied you the time to make this position before the start, I think you have not understood. I would like to ask the President-in-Office if he is prepared to do so. Besides, equations and generalizations are a very dangerous thing. Another is equality, and another is the equation and the generalization. What I have to tell you is that there are too many victims, millions of victims of various crimes. It makes no sense at the moment, and here's the Step forward in a contest of who's the victim worth more respect. All victims of criminal acts deserve respect. Also, all victims of state crime deserve respect and rehabilitation. And the weakest and victims of violations of rights, as they are, let us say, immigrants, migrant communities and victims of racist crimes are also worthy of respect. I think it would be cheap, and it would be inappropriate to put criminal offences on the scale. I also think it would be inappropriate for another reason, because the inadmissibility of an act is judged by the court and determines it and the House is not called upon to reassign it, by redefining its gravity, in a legislative context and in a spirit of judicial reality. Finally, I would remind you that there is also the constitutional framework, which allows even the heaviest crimes and the heaviest punishments for the supreme state actors, the President of the Republic, to forgive them. Let us take all this into account when we try our personal perceptions or our political convictions or our particular sensitivities, or if you wish, to make them general in a common assumption that can ultimately be unfair to us. I think I covered for you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u238	I talked about the perpetrators and the victims. I have not talked about victims and victims, Madam President. But it's your opinion. Mine and yours have been recorded. Okay. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the articles we have discussed in committee, we have had some progress in the morning. Perhaps we know very well now where everyone stands and what parties and groups believe in a bill, which I believe should not be the first of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister, however, tries to do so in fact three things. Article 56 opens prisons indiscriminately and horizontally. Free murderers, terrorists, drug dealers, rapists, pedophiles and other prisoners of such education are being released. I have a question, because the Minister told my colleague, Mrs Gennamas, that he would not say today whether or not he would accept amendments by colleagues or corrections etc., so we would wait until tomorrow, at the very latest, to see what will ultimately be acceptable or not. How, in your opinion, their house arrest can function when even this major issue with bracelets is not the case, so Article 3 does not apply? The procedure for bracelets has not been completed, so the restriction cannot be checked at home. That's the reality right now. Actually, what is the professor doing? It is trying to give informal and general amnesty, in our view, to the detriment of both the state and the citizens. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So, Minister, we cannot talk about the rule of law when the Ministry of Justice effectively abolishes the natural judges who have ruled on their crimes and you have given amnesty to the already convicted, whatever pretext. This may be met through specific provisions of marginal groups. I do not want to analyse what I said this morning again. The reality and the fact, however, is that citizens feel insecurity from it for their lives and their property. But it seems that this is not what the government is interested in. It seems that the government is still being devoured by past ideas. The second point I would like to make concerns page 45 of the bill and Article 1, where the much-discussed provisions abolishing detention shops in type III are inserted. Thus, it is clear that the aim of these provisions is to satisfy the terrorists, the very dangerous criminal prisoners and those of the friendly forces who support them. After all, the Minister in his dialogue with them has asked that the hunger strike should not continue, because he would immediately bring this bill to Parliament that meets their demands. Minister, you have argued that others have spoken with terrorists. It does not exempt you from our point of view. Who are the others who spoke to terrorists? In addition, all this is being legislated under the cloak of human rights for the accused, who must exist. However, they must exist in accordance with the law and the Constitution rather than the invoking humanism that is allegedly inconsistent with "white cells" or the creation of Guantánamo-type prisons. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece there are no "white cells" or "guantánamo" prisons. The purpose of these prisons created - their precursor structure was in 2009 with first legislative intervention - was neither the 'white cells' nor Guantánamo. It was the safe confinement with human conditions of terrorist and dangerous criminals, since at last we admit that the situation in prison so far was not a picture of prisons but an image of its control by dangerous prisoners. The penitentiary officials probably abstained for self-protective reasons. This situation, i.e. a kind of "life style" gathering and dialogue of dangerous criminals with terrorists, has resulted in the joint design of criminal terrorist acts, while uncontrolled visitors - postmans carried orders to and outside prisons. Undeniable proof of this osmosis is the way in which the criminal fusion of the Korydallos prisons was designed. Its aim was to escape the members of the terrorist organisation of the "Fevers of Fire". Thanks only to the patronage actions, the experience and the ability of the competent police authorities, but also our expressed political will, this project was not carried out, because we would be mourning not only dozens of victims, innocent citizens, but the prestige of the Greek state would be collapsed both within and outside borders. You will allow me to tell you something from my personal experience and to discuss with the generals and officers of the Greek Police and knowing how the whole case has been raised in order to dismantle this terrorist action. What else did we expect to see to it that there should be a separation between criminals and terrorists and the possibility of incarceration, as in all other European countries, of dangerous criminals and terrorists in prisons of the highest security type, i.e. with perimeter guard and without permits? By entering and leaving prisons, they were organized, found explosives, spoke to the prisoners, consulted about the plan and a few days before it was implemented, prevented. That's the reality. My third point concerns the photographic provisions that only aim to leave Savvas Xiros free, demolition of justice. I'm stopping here for this. That is our view. That is the reality, no matter how much we want to paint it, color it, make it or look at it, Minister. That's the reality. What else can Parliament, colleagues or society tell you, to understand that you are wrong in this regard, are you foul? Excuse me, the Government of Mr Tsipras not only does not deplore terrorism and its action, but today sends a message of encouragement and political coverage to future activities. The fact is that Article 110(3) prevents the competent judicial authorities from ordering the relevant expertise on the level of invalidity of the detainee in question if the detainee already has an invalidity certificate of more than 80% of the CSR. However, also in Article 282(2), the Judge shall be replaced again by the JCCM. What does that mean? This means that the particular terrorist inmate has obviously obtained a certificate and the judicial authority is being circumvented. The Minister is determined to release the prisoner at whatever cost. I oppose the domestic detention as worthless of the academic entity of the Minister. In these days I must admit, however, that by studying your artwork, Minister, in the press on the occasion of the 17 November trial, I found your firm support in this direction. At least you are consistent with who you go and who you leave. The beneficial provisions for detainees whose science and sensitivity presupposes, on the one hand, the existence of a penitentiary policy and, on the other hand, the judicial authorities which judge the improvement of that prisoner at all times, so that he may be released on conditions. It is surprising that the Tsipras Government is fighting for the release of Xeros, assisted by hoodmen, anti-powered, "blacks", promoting the change of season and the possible new assessment of society under the direction of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever law the present government is voting for, with the aim of making Xyros like, citizens will not forget that he has led to dozens of innocent people dying, citizens will not forget that your Government does not show respect for the families of the victims. The Tsipra government does not show sensitivity to Xero's victims and passes a law that frees his killers. At the same time, it opens a window for others. I shall conclude here, with the expectation of tomorrow's day and, therefore, of the final position of the Minister on the amendments tabled by colleagues or the improvements we have asked for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u239	The floor is given by the Special Rapporteur from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mrs. Desposina Sveroni - Chondosios for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u240	Thank you very much. The man is a beast. He's the biggest beast. Isn't that what the people say? The man is a beast and he is also a saint. When the beast comes out, it's the one who commits the most deceptive offences, the ones the natural judge imposes on him the last sentence, which is life sentence. But these people, these barbies, the hard criminals are people like us who at some point led them to make the animal. Type III prisons were referring to such crimes, i.e. crimes that were extremely deceptive, to which the courts imposed the most exterminating penalties. However, the penalty was already imposed by the court on many years of symposia or lifelong symposia. If these people are to be put into type III prisons and isolated from all other social conditions, those beasts that have once entered will now come out monsters through the prisons. We believe that they can operate wings for barbecue inside the prisons that already exist. I do not know, Madam President, whether or not I should refer to the amendments you have made. Should I talk about them too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u241	It has not been decided by the Minister whether to accept them or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u242	If you want, you can refer to them too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u243	That is why we have said that we are voting on the first article. We are in favour of this article. If the penitentiary system really works properly and there are infrastructures, all things can work in the right direction. Then there may also be 'priority', penalisation and special prevention for themselves, but also general prevention, so that we can no longer replicate criminals, or at least stop this catastrophe. SYRIZA brought an amendment to which there was a very long question. It wasn't exactly like that. I heard there was a question if what is being criminalized is the garment. Of course not. It does not mean that because I will wear a hood, a hood - this view is over-simplified - and because I will pass through a demonstration, I will immediately be punished because I was wearing the hood. There, you know, there are other kinds of mechanisms there. That is where the rule of law now operates through its institutions. If the police operate in the alpha or beta way, then I don't know, maybe I'm also a hood not to wear and go through a protest or anything else that's going on and I'm indicted. Or even, if you want, I may belong to that side, to be a member of the Golden Dawn and, for that reason, only to be regarded as one, for some other criminal, for some other neo-nazis, and I don't know what else. It is therefore a matter of opinion and perception. But someone's not punished because he's just wearing a hood. I said before that there's within us the beast that sometimes works, surfaces and leads man to a criminal and derogatory behavior. That's the one. But when this person who commits a crime wears a hood, then he shows, you know, a criminal perversion. It shows, in other words, that it is also criminalized and hidden and possibly "loaded" and somewhere else. Because most criminals do a criminal act and at some point either regret or admit or confess to doing something. The hood never had a chance to confess, because it wore the hood to commit an offence and intended never to be seen. The hoods refer us to other times. You know, Golden Dawn, this 'organization', as some people want to call it - who so easily become judges, honorers and columnists of democracy and our legal system - has lost two young men who were not murdered simply, but were executed. They're the only children to whom the charismatic shot was given. It's Giorgos Fountoulis and Manolis Capilonis. There's a third lad with a bullet in the lung, which almost got murdered. He was found in the hospital for four, five months and still trying to stand on his feet. If these people, the killers, were not wearing a hood, and given that there were no cameras, most likely that it would have been possible to detect this unreasonable crime that was committed. So, with no power and no excuse to say that we are in favour of this amendment, because let me say that we consider it to be very easy and very cheap - that we allegedly criminalise clothing. The institution of the term of dismissal is an institution which has been in existence for at least the last few years, as long as I am a lawyer. At least since then I remember, maybe even more ahead. Just ahead of time, if the prisoner had a certain period of time, and if there was a good life expectation, he was able to ask for the conditional dismissal. Things changed, and I think they had to change. A man cannot permanently stay in prison and only look forward to the honesty of his later life. That is why, quite rightly and wisely, the legislator has instituted the institution of the term of dismissal, that is, if you have spent a certain time, another for imprisonment, another for imprisonment, and you have shown good conduct, the rule is to be fired from prisons. It is not only made redundant if certain conditions are met. In this sense, we think it is in the right direction. But we have our objections to these people. Give us a hand of help and get back to the disabled. But there's a major topic here. A crippled person with his disability turned up in prison? What if there was the disability before and even though there was the disability committed the offense? On the one hand, we say he can't stay in prison, why can't he help himself, but while he was out, he was disabled and committed a crime? There's some ambiguity there. As also, we cannot accept what our Parliamentary representative has said, namely what a disability is of the order of 50%. If you have 50% disability, you don't get a disability pension. It should be over 67% and even under certain conditions. What is it here that leads the legislature to say that if you have a disability and 50% can you suffer from the condition of dismissal? In the same article there is also the condition of dismissal for foreign prisoners. Here again, I have an objection. I don't understand. Perhaps my Greeks are somewhat poor and I cannot see what is being heard here. I have heard about foreigners who, he says, once they have served their sentence in prison, because for some reasons they cannot be deported, are in our country as guests. They were in our country, committed crimes, and to be in prison, they probably committed serious criminal offences. They now leave prisons and are not exactly guests. We want us, if you want, influenced by Xenon Zeus, to call this situation. So we're loading them again. In other words, we have these people that we fed them, we watered them in prison, they came and did not respect the country that came to give them a job, they stayed in prison, they leave the prison. And the other thing is that sometimes deportations are not made because, he says, the other person may be stateless, he may have declared false evidence and yet, if his expulsion after the condition of dismissal is not carried out within four months, he is fired. So where's he fired? Where's he going? Is a man who judged the court to be deported? Is he fired again? And what? She's giving up? And are we so sure that this man who is either insurgent or does not say his information or his homeland does not accept him or does the embassy not cooperate, which means that he does not accept him, and yet we say 'do not mind sitting here' for humanitarian reasons? Uh, humanists to be, but look at our house a little bit. Don't start looking for us. Because in the end, it seems to me, we will need to ask for asylum in another country. We may be forced, since all these people will come here together with the refugees, emigrate and go to refugees. I do not know, however, whether a host country would treat us in the same way as you say we have to treat these people. They have all their limits! It is in the positive direction and the article which speaks of the essentials. Nevertheless, and this morning I told the Minister that I think they are once again semimeters, because we are talking about treatment shops which are not working. It's like the type III prisons that New Democracy voted for and thought something was done and which you want to abolish and you think you're doing something. They're actually like paper exercises. Nothing has happened in fact. With regard to the emergency measures for the decongestion of prisons, we think it is something not just clipping, but something that shows that we are really panicked every two years, since we have not done any infrastructure, it is to open the prisons and say 'those who are loyal you can come out, so that the rest of you who stay in prison are better off', without having thought about whether these people have been re-occupied into society, have been re-socialised and will start to be among us. Most of the time, these people are real rags and mental. There are people - I have met them at least - who very much wanted to get out in society. They came out before their time and brought the criminal's mark. Our country can accept refugees, but its own prisoners are very difficult to accept. The Greeks are not racist to strangers. The Greeks are racist to us, the Greeks. To those who did jail and go out to the drug addicts, to the Chrysayites. We know there how to take out our racism. We're keeping our humanism for the other tribes. Madam President, what I just want to emphasise...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u244	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u245	Yeah, yeah. I'm done. Apart from prisoners, except those who did something in their lives and found themselves in prisons, there are a large number of people working in prisons: penitentiaries, security officers, sociologists, teachers, psychologists, secretaries. All these people live in these prisons, as you mentioned before. And these people didn't do anything else in their lives. They're going to prisons to work to get their bread. Most of them feel that every day they start in the morning and don't know if they're coming home at night, after the last events that have happened and some other prison-related events that we don't know about. In prisons, especially, the full brief reigns. There's only got to be murder so the rest of us can find out. These people, then, go every day to take out the fright of terror. We'll have to move on to these people, hug them. In fact, many people should be appointed in prisons, in order to be able, anyway, to manage this whole piece called the prison system, this whole piece called "survivor stores I' or II" type, all of which is called "watches". Of course - and I'll end with it - we're talking about these prisons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u246	Mrs. Sveroni, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u247	That is what I shall say, Madam President, and I shall end. Thank you. The others we're outside are experiencing our own prison. We are talking about detainees who cannot go to hospitals, but we have not wondered how many of us Greeks are unable to go to the hospital or go to the hospital and ask them for the relevant defects and die in the hallways or die waiting for them to be examined whether they are cancer patients or suffering from another serious disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u248	Mrs Fofi Gennimata, a special buyer from PASOK, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u249	Thank you very much, Madam President. Without a time-saving, I'm piercing the individual provisions of the bill. Article 1 provides for the abolition of type III prisons. I repeat that this is a regulation not just ineffective, but a regulation that can be dangerous. On the one hand, a penitentiary structure that has not even worked. Domokos was converted into a high security prison just at the end of last year. Therefore, the time needed to assess it has not passed. The bill comes to abolish a structure, without any care for the day after tomorrow. We recognise the dangers created by the siege of dangerous prisoners in a prison. We agree with the succinct detention regime proposed by the Minister. We are not defenders of any kind of discipline, but on the other hand, we underline with emphasis the present total non-existence of safety wings in regional prisons of 1 and 2. That is where our anxiety and concern about the practical application of the law come from. Our disagreement, that is, has no ideological but practical starting point. We are, unfortunately, confident that the return of Domokos prisoners to other individual prisons will strengthen the climate and jeopardise the human rights of the weakest prisoners. So we see that with such an automatic abolition, with a single-twinner, more and more serious problems are created than I am sure you are trying to solve. There is no provision for the rational separation of prisoners and the weakest prisoners are targeted. That is the main reason why we are voting against this article. We welcome the division of Article 2, as requested by the committee. I'm coming straight to the issue of minors. We consider the irresponsible at 15 years of age to be too high. We are talking about irresponsible, that is, the state recognizes that a 15 - year - old man is unable to realize that he commits a crime. How is it justified that the same legal class three years later will expect the same man to exercise his political rights? We are unable to understand why the state chooses to increase the limit of inappropriate, when with the rest correct provisions it strengthens reform measures. Of course, we repeat that for the purpose of identifying the true age of the perpetrator a legal examination should be provided for. Otherwise we leave the new provisions on immunity, Mr Minister, and abuses. On the issue of patients and people with disabilities in prisons, we are associated with the sensitivities that have been expressed and we are privatising. However, we must not forget the basic principle of the proportionality of the penalty to the type and gravity of the crime. That is why we cannot support the extreme and without criteria for the dismissal of detainees, nor, in the same way, the unqualified avoidance of temporary detention or of house arrest. It is therefore necessary to introduce exceptions. Of course, the matter should be reviewed in the context of the new Criminal Code and the new Code of Criminal Procedure. In any case, however, we can only recognise that the legal improvement of the Minister for Home Restriction using a geomedicalization device is in the right direction. However, unfortunately, the provision is empty at the moment, because the famous bracelet is still pending, it has not been implemented. So I wonder how this arrangement will be implemented. On the issue of foreigners, we recognise that the arrangements are necessary. They deal with the overpopulation of deportees who remain in prison for no reason due to administrative insufficiency in the execution of expulsions. We only hope that the provision will be implemented and that it will not become a wish. I would just like to make one comment. The ban period is reduced, Minister, from at least 10 years to 10 years and because there is no reference to the explanatory statement, if you would like to clarify it at some point. With regard to Article 312 of the Criminal Code, we support it as a symbolic state response to recent tragic incidents. Despite the limitations you put in the case of minors limiting its scope, we will be voting in favour of it. As we will be voting in favour of the imported provisions on drugs. These are necessary provisions facilitating access to alternative treatment programmes and proposing rehab against prison. For the articles on decongestion, our positions have been clear from the outset. It is necessary to introduce exceptions. We cannot go to unrestricted dismissals of prisoners with many years of squatting and for the heavier crimes without criteria and limitations, without even judiciary judgement. We cannot deal with the overpopulation that currently exists in prisons and we all recognise it, in terms of purely management and finally accounting. There is a need for minimum legal personality, even at the level of the category of serious and serious socially deceptive offences. As far as the other arrangements for the recruitment provision are concerned, we naturally welcome the implementation by this government of an act of Ministerial Council of the Government of Pikramenos - it is important to say what has been done in the past, because there must be continuity and positive recognition - within the framework of the fifteen thousand recruitments that the previous government has secured for the year. That's the reality. That is why you have the opportunity, Minister, today to proceed to these recruitments. But really, why don't you also anticipate the strengthening of social services? We also raised the matter during the debate in committee. Why don't you anticipate the recruitment of nursing personnel? We have put it to the committee too. It is a very crucial issue to improve the nursing conditions for all prisoners. Why do you not anticipate the intake of juvenile caretakers? How can you expect the implementation of the reform measures imposed in even more cases, when there is not even the minimum necessary scientific staff? For education establishments, open or semi-liberal establishments, we express the wish and hope that the provisions and authorisations will be implemented and that they will not be referred back to the bells. I come to the amendment and I close with it. Look, I believe that this amendment - I am talking about the ministerial amendment - is fragmentary and I think it also contains very serious legal risks. In the recital, the Ministry invokes the provisions on the retention and infiltration of acts which are wrongful. However, the amendment does not refer to these acts. It refers to felonies that can bring about temporary detention, even the heaviest offences of organised crime. So there is a subjective element that works in favour of serious crime. The order causes a crack in dealing with organized crime by the state. Family crime seems to be recognized as the softest form of crime. For example, a father of a mob structured organization will be protected, Minister, as a relative of the other members of the organization? It is clear that we will be voting against this amendment. Thank you very much. The rest tomorrow in dentistry, because it's already too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u250	And we thank Mrs Gennamas for the proper use of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u251	Please make an intervention, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u252	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u253	I thank Mrs Gennamas for her constructive criticism. I would like to say that if, in the case of arrangements for guests, the rise in the years of expulsion that may follow, from ten to twenty years - in a judicial crisis is, and in any case, the judge will be able to impose a lesser percentage - you seem to be able to serve proportionality in heavier crimes, we would have no objection to this point. What I would like to clarify, however, because I think that your position is overlooking it, is that the regulation on relatives is also possible in the court judgement. There is no danger, because the judge can weigh on peculiarities and if he considers that that relationship was not that, which has resulted in a involvement in criminal activity, he cannot accept this arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u254	And we thank the Minister. We are now going to the Members of Parliament on the articles. Mrs Eleni Sotiriou has the floor. You can also speak from your position, if you please, Mrs. Sotiri. You have the floor for eight minutes to speak as many as possible, who patiently wait today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u255	Madam President, I will be brief because the time has passed and because there have been quite a lot of other colleagues. This draft law on the penitentiary system and regulations, in fact, concerns some immediate measures, some immediate improvements, on the basis of two data, which are available up to now and with which I do not think anyone disagrees. One is the tragic and disgraceful conditions in prisons, and the second is convictions and fines by the European Court of Justice. We are talking about immediate relief measures in vulnerable groups, such as sick, elderly, minors, users of substances. We are also talking about the abolition of type III prisons. In fact, all this is the elementary and self-evident thing, to which any government should go. It is, however, a first step and a prerequisite for subsequent interventions, which they obviously need. In fact, we're correcting some wounds. We do not claim that this is enough, that these arrangements are enough. From there on, changes are needed both in structures and staff and in funding and in a number of other things, which are necessary and to which we must move. I cannot comment on a number of arguments I have heard. I do not think that they are arguments lacking in the committee, but today in the positions of the other parties, the New Democracy, the PASOK, the River, who have voted against and which are fanatical against this bill, as well as other bills. But that's why we're going to say that. We have heard about "Minister of the hoodmen and the terrorists", about dialogue with the hoodmen and responding to their demands, about the government's ruse to criminals, about the photographic bill, etc. These are the basic arguments that exist. It makes me astonishing, as if by 25 January, we were in a country of angels enslaved, under the rule of law, safely against the citizen and the rights of the Greek people. We have also heard today that it is the rule of law which has suffered since 25 January and then, with the SYRIZA Government, a huge blow. We are talking about lawlessness, anarchy, chaos, immunity and, anyway, blacks. Really, the New Democracy and the PASOK, that is, the previous government, are they the ones who defended the rule of law? Really, it's a wonder like that. Aren't they the ones who destroyed the country and leveled the Greek people and their rights? Are they not those who directly attacked democracy and democratic rights? Are they not those who have implemented memos, with only Merkel supporters, Shoeble and all these powerful Europeans, anyway, who want to run the test in our country? Aren't they ready to sell part of the public wealth to lenders? SYRIZA supports and defends immigrants, criminals, terrorists. That's what they tell us. The New Democracy and the PASOK who are they exactly defending? I think it's clear who they're defending. The New Democracy does not only have a problem with this bill, which deals with the arrangements in the penitentiary system. He has a problem with the Committee of Inquiry on Memorandums. He has a problem with the Committee on the Audit of Debt. He has a problem with the law on the humanitarian crisis, the law on the hundreds, the bill on the state, which follows, the bill on the ERT and its reopening, the bill on collective agreements and negotiations. It has a problem with all that concerns the many and their rights, while it defends the legitimacy of the few and wants lawlessness and the chaos of the few. What we want - and that is why we are fighting - is the many and their right. Prisons are or aren't they colleges, so do you need specific intervention in this regard? Is it or is it not a disgrace to our culture and misery? The bill was formulated on the basis of humanity, the sense of justice and the possibility - where possible - of reintegrating people into society and not their incorporation into society, was the criterion of alleviating them. Is it wrong? Is that a judging thing? I will not go more specifically into the bill, because a lot has been said. For example, it effectively abolishes the detention of minors. Today I have heard that the irresponsibility of fifteen years is quite high. That is one argument too. We say that the detention of minors by reformist and educational measures must be replaced, because we believe that we can win people and much more young and much more minors. I think that the problem of the New Democracy and the PASOK, and as I understand it, and of the Pottomium, is that they have generally allergy with rights, whatever has to do with rights, the rights of prisoners, the rights of young people leaving abroad, for example the right to work, for example the right to education, for example - most importantly - the right of a people to live with dignity. You know, there is a phrase that says that justice - I extend it and say the penitentiary system - does not really exist, it has many problems and it is like a snake that bites the wretchers. So I say that it is our duty to change this and it is our great responsibility. It's a difficult road that we've opened, but this road we have to walk, because this people can live otherwise, it can get rid of this rotten regime, and this douche they put us out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u256	Mr. Syrgis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u257	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I enter the matter directly, without wandering elsewhere and avoiding the temptations which have been caused by the Democrat Opposition, which has taken place on many occasions, but I fear that the substance of the draft law has not produced any reason, at least critical. It was just an opposition to the opposition. This is a bill, which is trying carefully to solve urgent and pressing problems that have created a bad image for our country abroad, which has brought us convicts from the European Court of Justice and afflict our legal culture. This bill abolishes Type III prisons, while the issue of allocation is settled in accordance with Article 1(2). Measures are being taken to relieve minors, who are really protected and avoided by stigmatisation, while strengthening their social reintegration. See special provision for substantial-qualified minors under the terms of the bill. The provisions of the draft law relating to the condition of dismissal are completely balanced in order to dismantle prisons, while at the same time not affecting the legal feeling and the execution of sentences in accordance with the judgements of the courts. The same applies to the conversion of penalties. Finally, regarding the issue of decongestion, serious consideration is given to diseases, disability and the age of the incarcerators - it is also a matter of humanism, of course - whose stay in prison would be tantamount to death many times, since, in other words, they do not even enjoy elementary medical care, not to mention the case of serious diseases, such as AIDS, hepatitis C, etc. This, you know, we have emphasised other times, the problem of prison congestion is not quantifiable, it is quality, or it is changed and it becomes nightmareous many times. At the same time, the bill addresses the problem of hosts foreigners in prisons in a fair and empirical manner, in line with human basic rights and the concept of human dignity, as expressed in the ECHR and our Constitution. The bill also, with regard to the essentials, essentially prefers to resolve the rehab instead of the prison, a matter which has dealt with the theory and case law of Criminal Law for a long time and has been poured out abundantly ink. I would like to refer to an article by the Minister in the magazine 'Prime Justice', which speaks on this issue and concludes: 'Generally, in a society that does not develop reintegration policies, the management of conditions of survival goes against risk management policy. It therefore fits here as an epilogue another phrase by Z. Bauman referring to social exclusion: 'All waste is toxic'. "In addition," says the Minister, "that, therefore, rehabilitation and reintegration are parallel steps towards social peace". It's a direction given. Also, it is best faced with harm by hard behaviour, extending its meaning to the provisions of Article 312 B.C.E. Furthermore, I would point out that the regulations of the bill are general rather than 'à la cart' and that the draft law with the noise of the last few days is unjustified. A serious look at prisons and euphemism hospitals amplify my allegations of the seriousness and timeliness of the bill being passed. It is noteworthy that by the inviting bodies to consult, the overwhelming majority faces a positive attitude to the draft legislation, which needs to be taken seriously and is its best advocate. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious element and must be taken into account as the main advantage of the draft legislation under discussion, given that it is noted and reflected in its broad acceptance by the social actors and thus society. This is important in relation to many others and it stands out from them, since this process and consultation with stakeholders are the 'gateway' through which Parliament's influence and communication with society and vice versa takes place. Let this be burdened with in our judgment. In this sense, I believe that the Members who have made a strong complaint have really circumvented this particular matter with deliberate intent, even this position of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. Two words about DNA: When this provision was adopted, it was strongly criticised by the legal community. We have said that in committee too. Among those who charged her was that she expanded the list of criminal offences with the 'and others' in the order. It undermined the reception and analysis of a mere investigative act. The absence of any proportionality with regard to keeping the file was found (adults, minors, serious crimes) and had been contrary to the opinion of the Privacy Authority No 2/2009. At the time of its adoption - and I quote again and I refer to you by an article by Mr. Efstathos Pularakis in "Prime Justice" - Mr. Pularakis wrote: "It is therefore clear that the legislator should intervene correctively in order to ensure the compatibility of the arrangements with the Constitution and the ECHR". I have the feeling that this is an attempt to do this with the amendment. I conclude with two words on the question of the hood, as mentioned in the relevant amendment. This law, and at the time it was adopted, was criticised for insulting both our Constitution and the provisions of our Criminal Code, a dogmaticly 'closed system', which does not allow police surveillance to be confused by criminalisation, namely the inclusion of similar provisions into it. Furthermore, the inconsistency of the relevant provisions limited to certain crimes cannot be seen and they arbitrarily exclude others. For example, the robbery is part of it, but not the kidnapping. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. There is also another question. If there's a hooded robber and a hoodless hooded robber and both robbery aren't committing? "This - sabotage" - because this is what the man wearing the hood is trying to hide - there may be too many crimes. I therefore think that what had been done was unsatisfactory. On this issue - and I conclude - I would just like to remind you again of an article of the 'Prime Justice' by Mrs Symphony, a professor at the IGC: 'The criterion of covering the characteristics of the person is inappropriate to determine the possible cycle of the perpetrators to which she refers, and also does not justify increasing the sentence, as it does not include an increased level of unfairness or guilt of the perpetrator. It is therefore contrary to the rules laid down in Articles 7(1) and 25(1) of the Constitution.’ [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll make my last report. Allow me - because I have told the committee as well - only one crisis on the question of amending Article 282, the addition made. In addition to what I have said in committee, I do not want anyone to be aware that this is a restrictive condition. It is the domestic restriction, a restrictive condition, which relates to a narrow, specific cycle and to the ‘if’ that has restricted the object of the act assigned to them and which is the conflict of duties due to family and not any other cause in general. Also, the house arrest is possible - the Minister explained -'may' and not compelling. According to the law, that is to say, the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would point this out to say that it is a strict provision and we find it inappropriately opening up streets and anything else. I conclude by saying that the changes that are being attempted by the bill under discussion in our criminal and penal system are in a progressive and liberal direction. It is perhaps the greatest asset in the bill, which is properly assessed, leads us to accept and vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Syrgos. Mr. Vassiliou has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u259	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are first discussing the draft law: 'Reforms of criminal law, abolishing detention shops and other provisions'. I cannot start my speech with one comment on the speeches mainly of the Deputy Officers of the Civilian Representation. Of course, few people have said to speak and at the moment I think one is in the Chamber. This is another indication, along with the contents of the speeches, that the Civic Opposition makes as if it does not understand what we are talking about in this bill, because all this time, since it entered the public consultation, since it entered the committees and today, we see that it deals with what it knew to do before and before as a government, namely the cultivation of a climate of terrorism, terrorism, fear and a climate of division of Greek society as if there were no elections on 25 January, because they have obviously not understood what happened on 25 January, that the Greek people, in addition to others, condemned the division. He does not want bisecting logic and voted for the unity of society and the people. So we cannot continue to hear in this Chamber divided sermons and be the only arguments we have to face up to a harsh reality in our country about the penitentiary system. Mr Voridis and other Members, who said that, yes, there must be beneficial provisions. They can't deny that. That is why they are insisting on terrorism, but they must know that this is no longer an excuse for anything. The Greek people also voted on the 25th of January for dignity, justice, democracy, which was also the main election slogan of SYRIZA, and on this tripartite is the logic of this bill. Because it is not just some fragmentary provisions that improve only some aspects of the penitentiary, but it is a bill that moves in a completely different philosophy, which puts the dignity of the detainees at the centre, their rights. It puts the justice in the centre, which must also be in place through the penitentiary, to be founded in society as a whole. And of course, it puts democracy in the centre. And it can't but be interconnected. We cannot, then, hear crowns in here that patients, disabled people, who cannot walk, do not see, are dangerous to society, even to hear it from doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go a little further - because there is no time to talk about the articles too - in Article 1 that abolishes Type III prisons. Because I happen to be elected to Phthiotis, where the Domos prisons were chosen to carry out this experiment, I must say something that Mr. Vorides also admitted in his speech, attributes that only an increase in the external guard took place. Really, that's all happened. So how did Type III prisons come into being? There have been requests from the penitentiaries for years now about security measures. The Minister rightly said that it is not a question of an anti-constitutional measure, i.e. establishing the distinction of prisoners in high-security prisons, but in every prison, there must be a sense of security not only with regard to prisoners but also with regard to penitentiary officials. In Domokos, for years now, they have been calling - and indeed on the occasion of the resolution by the previous government of the relevant law - for special security measures to be taken in the interior, for there to be an increase in the staff of the penitentiary staff, for health coverage, which, unfortunately, remains a matter of concern, Minister. Because this tragic thing is happening. For the slightest symptom, there must be a switch to the Domokos Health Center or to the Lamia Hospital, with all the consequences that we all know. It's a prison where summer stays from water. Because it does not have its own drilling that meets the needs and the increased demands of summer leave the prisoners without water. And that's all we said to be Type III prisons with the highest security, etc. Fantastic things. Fortunately, today they admit that the external guard has only increased. I would also like to convey the request from the Union of Police Officers, and I also keep Mr Panousi's commitment the other day to his visit to Fthiotida that this external guard should meet the needs of police officers in Fthiotida, who are understood. As far as the article on decongestion of prisons is concerned, I think that is the great aim of the bill. Finally, we will see decongestion of prisons, which is a great issue and, of course, opposition cannot deny that it is necessary. How can it be decongested? By means of exceptional decongestion measures described in the relevant Article, with a minimum of the incarceration of minors, with measures taken to host foreigners, with measures relating to the change of legislation on drugs. And we must say that the law passed by the former government, unfortunately, did not lead to what we would expect and we hope that this will be achieved. Finally, the measures taken for patients and the disabled must be said to be in the right direction, but they are also on the basis of international cheques. Everywhere in the world there is what is now being voted on for the first time in our country. And I sincerely deplore this attitude of opposition on this matter. Finally, I would like a minute, Madam President, for the two amendments which I have signed. They are concerned with the amendment of the 'doll-law'. I do not want to say much, but because Mr Georgiadis here has made a full lecture on the subject, I would say that if we are going to share his point of view, then also those who wear gloves being arrested as potential burglars. So that's where we got there. Anybody, in any way, covers his or her face being arrested. It is also necessary to harmonize DNA legislation at last with international standards. I will also make a special reference to the amendment, Mr Minister, which we have signed on the abolition of the Voridis - Reppa Act, on the criminalisation of action and toll protests, which he had criminalised, both the free access of citizens from tolls, and the demonstrations of protest by means of the release of tolls and the facilitation of drivers to act on their constitutional right to free access to national roads. We must say that we are the only country to go to work that pays two wages a year for tolls and if it passes freely and happens to be arrested, it will have exterminated penalties. I think it is time at least to abolish this criminalisation. They are already fighters of the movement against tolls facing justice. There is, of course, still no condemnation, because there is solidarity and solidarity, but we would like you to take care to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u260	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Emmanuelides, who is the next speaker, I would like to say that because there is an express mood from those who have been in plenary today to speak even more, I am available until now rather than one. And I think it is right that we should do this, so that tomorrow the roll-call vote should be taken sooner than eight, so that everyone who comes, like me from the province, can leave the province early tomorrow afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u261	You agree, therefore. Mr. Emmanoulidis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dostoyevski had said that a country's level of civilisation is seen by the level of living of the prisoners. It is regrettable that the colleagues of all the other parties are not here. Mr. Fortsakis, you represent them in total. Retiring can only be done on empty benches, but dialogue, even in that sense, needs to be unfolded. Our differences, ladies and gentlemen, with the New Democracy are deeply political, but, above all, they are deeply cultural, because the way each individual perceives is an indicator of his cultural sensitivity and his cultural harmony. The New Democracy, throughout today's day, except for extreme crowns that imply the lack of sensitivity to human beings, has clearly demonstrated this punishment of violating people. I am going to make one parentheses necessary to say that I feel absolutely respectful of the suffering of people who have been lost in one way or another by crime. However, this does not in any way remove the responsibility and duty of organised society to face offenders as human beings. This is obviously ignored and is an indicator of this cultural attitude that it has about things. Our culture, ladies and gentlemen, is a culture that, as a foundation in human relations, has decency, not because there is greater widening of the soul, but because there is greater intimacy in detecting human beings. We know very well - I can state this after a 30-year-old course in the classroom, Mr Fortsakis - that, as many times as in violation behaviours have shown rigour, the result has not been the wish. As many times as I was indulging in obedience, I saw that I was really a useful minister, because day after day the offender, the potential person, or in the course of the infringement, was the one that had a high sensitivity that enabled them to be activated and rationalized in the course of his life. These things, I think, are all going through the discussion and voting bill. Unfortunately - I am saying it and I mean it - there is an atherotic plaque from the long term mandate to power. Power is Kirkee. People with the stick turns them into pigs. In this regard, this long relationship with authority has created this athenoma. And you do not understand that this attitude, the total punishment, does not exacerbate society. This is the stake of this bill. And it is really sad that there are no people in here, ladies and gentlemen, who would have to listen to such thoughts. The crowns are nothing but cymbal savage. It needs more tormenting silent thought and, unfortunately, it lacks dramatically from the area of counter-population. I also address Mr Venizelos. Sure, he's here. Talk. "Let the rhetoric come and say theirs." That's what Cavafy says. Mr Venizelos came and said his and as a modern Cassandra assured us that we are heading towards the disaster. Yes! But the disaster has occurred. It's social, it's economic, it's cultural, it's cultural, it's full and complete! Is it possible that a man who advocated and collated in this disaster dares to speak of the coming disaster? One is sure, the other is Cassandra's prophecy. And if we mean destruction of this stubborn attitude in ensuring elementary dignity as individuals and as a people, yes, we are leading to destruction. But a disaster that never comes, when man believes in his powers, believes in righteousness, believes in historical destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u263	And we thank Mr Emmanuelides. Mr Constantine Zacharias has the floor. To shorten the debate, immediately after Mr. Nikos Manios was prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u264	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is dealing with and bringing the most disfellowshipped, stigmatized and dismantled, prisons and prisoners, prisoners, and prisoners as a first bill. Personally, I would like to give a witness, as I did in committee, because in times without visions, even a testimony, I think it is an act of radicalism, which it needs. So I start with a somewhat rhetorical question: Is there an alibi or an excuse in our world to be called a ‘hotel’ or ‘infirmary’, or any of the ‘health service area’, that where patients live in almost zero conditions of atomic hygiene, in buildings with a clear picture of abandonment and absence of maintenance, with a zero ventilation, with overcongestion, with humidity and mold in the toilets, in the hallways, walls, in the windows, with a sense of absolute dirt in the minimum furniture, in the worn beds, in the mattresses, in bedsides, when, in the end, the image of complete impoverishment can even hide the daily immersion of the hell? There's no excuse. However, two hospitals, the “Saint Paul” and the Psychiatric Hospital of Korydalou Prisons, hide behind the walls surrounding them, the inhuman situation that I described earlier, which is really experienced by patients who are detained in time, many with severe disability, some with infectious communicable diseases, in the same areas as a seropositive, without an ambulance, with a timely process of emergency, with few permanently qualified doctors and nurses, with incomplete and antiquated medical equipment. Two prison hospitals all over the country, downtown, only for men, without women's wings and without delimitation of the infectious. As far as the Psychiatric Hospital is concerned, this does not have permanent doctors, but visitors of psychiatrists. It is a medieval asylum, in which they survive full-sensory isolation practices for days in the famous blue cells of the basement, confinement and isolation areas of the regulators and possibly undisciplined patients. Not even for another day should we reverse our attention and interest in these prison hospitals. Because prisoners are also human beings and they may suffer and - I answer the former Minister of Justice - they need care. In recent years Members of our parliamentary group have tried to highlight aspects of this inhumane situation, both in prison hospitals and in prisons and police detentions throughout Greece. From these on-the-spot visits, they had traumatic experiences reflected in the interventions of parliamentary control and in the public word of SYRIZA. The prisoners in Greece, apart from freedom, are deprived of place and vital space. Most of the country's international convicts concern the existence of degrading behaviour, due to extreme crowding, which in itself constitutes torture. In Tripoli prisons, for example, there is a stack of more than three times the population - more than two hundred people in space for sixty - in rooms without corridors, without ventilation and shared spaces, without the possibility of the prisoner simply standing or sitting. So humanisation of our penitentiary system is an urgent need. We believe that the government will honour its commitments, ensure the necessary resources and staff and activate the provisions of Article 13 of the Treaty. 3772/2009, which remains for six years in drawers, so that prison hospitals are immediately integrated into the ESS and now provide similar medical services and nursing care. And don't think, there are initiatives, even in regional detention shops, in cooperation with various other scientific bodies in the centre, who even today propose humanism, dignity, decriminalisation of prisons. One such programme - I will put it in the Minutes later - is the DESMOT programme for Trikala prisons. And I think the Justice Department and the Treasury should see it positively. The overpopulation of the detainees must also be directly controlled. The draft law, which we are discussing, achieves it, not only by decongestion measures. The regulations concerning the extra-institutional treatment of children and adolescents are extended, the treatment of dependent persons, who can now hope for successful integration into therapeutic programmes, is reversed. The draft law redeems prisoners - patients with chronic suffering, experiencing the miserable conditions in Greek prisons. The undeniably substantiated chronicity of the disease - which does not exclude acute outbursts and phases - is the one that differentiates its characterisation as a harm. Timelessness and damage. However, this irresponsible harm under previous laws did not prevent patients - detainees until today dying in detention. Of course, that is why a provision has not been implemented today in the law. And with a legal correction tabled by the Minister, he is reinstated for patients - detainees with malignant end-stage diseases. Finally, all cancer patients are dying in prison hospitals today. It is therefore foreseen to reduce penalties and dismissal on condition, depending on the disability rate, on the basis of the single disability assessment table, which is generally valid for all insured persons and which is attributed to criteria relating to the patient's clinical condition and the disability impact on the quality of his or her life. Invalidity rates of 50% on burdened living conditions, 67% to 80%, differentiate criminal treatment from the disability rate of 80% or more, substantially depressing the disease, which leads the isovites with the draft law to an alternative assessment of the penalty at home. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At this point I would like a small margin, Madam President, to give some examples of diseases that determine the rates of 67% to 80% or more: Chronic respiratory insufficiency with severe clinical symptoms and the need for oxygen therapy throughout the 24-hour period, heart disease with a large extent of heart damage that depresses the patient, chronic valvdopathy, neoplastic diseases with rapid progression, such as lung and stomach cancer, decompensated hepatic cirrhosis at its ends, total amputations, total blindness. Pain and pain and suffering, therefore, for those suffering in prisons. The draft law today gives solutions. And it is important that it agrees almost all the social, scientific and trade union bodies that were put to the hearing in the House. So we see the government moving today into a small step, but radically in the present conditions, which fights social exclusion and stigma and gives dignity to the prisoners. This is also important, so we must support it with all our strength. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u265	Thank you, too. Mr Manius has the floor and Mr Tsirkas is ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u266	Madam President, take the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u267	Immediately, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u268	It's gonna be the greatest benefit you can do if you zero the time, not growing up, because as long as I grow up, I hear strange things. So I hear that there is a bill coming to be voted on to improve the state of prisons and I see the opposition absent, a combination of opposition, as if there were no other opportunities from the previous and the next bills that will come here. In everything, you'll be against it. Before talking about prisons and the laws which must govern their operation, one must have an image of at least what is in prison. Let me not speak theoretically, but completely experientially. And not because I used to do prisons on Judas, but because throughout my medical life I have visited many in Korydalou Prisons and have examined patients, strikers and second-time prisoners. So I went once to examine a young kid from those you blame that we're fond of them, we help them break windows, etc. He was a hunger striker at the hospital in Korydalus. Now, of course, it is a joke to say 'Korydallos Hospital'. And there were six people in a metal cage. I found one who was down. From my point of view, he's a hunger striker. It was. The rest of the five were two psychic patients who were completely delirious, one with tuberculosis that was relapsed and the other there in the background couldn't tell what's wrong with it. That was a prison of a civilized state that speaks in the name of democracy! Look at this: it's not right to talk about the dead from here and there. The dead aren't that far from there. They're dead. We must respect the dead, but we must show respect when talking and talking about a man who has committed heinous crimes, for example. Savvas Dried, because there's other justice. And a Kalambokas - if I remember his name correctly - had murdered a young man, Temponer, in Patras. Sit down seven years in jail, and now the man works. And he's good and he's working. Why aren't you referring to this? As long as we see life through, then we are not going to go forward, not as a country you say, because the country is an abstract concept, but we cannot go as a Parliament. You're talking about Savva Drought. I've examined him in prison more than fifteen times as an ophthalmist. We went ten more times in court. They gave him twice the opportunity to go to the hospital for a month. He was a little helped for a short time. At the same time, for three years his brother Christoulos, who had no physical disability, was walking around the other rays of the prison from where the blind Savvas was. And I did not see any Member of the ruling party telling us about New Democracy and PASOK how it was possible for him to walk around free and the other prisoners of 17 November to be folded. And he accidentally took seven licenses and left eighth. And the former Minister, Mr. Kikilis, came to tell us the feat of the Savva police he had already left. And he caught him 15 days before the election to say he did something. And what did this Savvas do? I say it all by their name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u269	Christoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u270	Christoulos! Savvas can do nothing. He's blind, lame, deaf, and he has multiple sclerosis, and I don't know what else and his legs are duouli from the swelling. So what did Jesus do? He's gone, he's wandered. Did the Greek police lose him? Whoever claims that, not just, I'm gonna laugh, but I'm gonna tell him he doesn't know. One advantage has been the Greek Police, which has built it since 1929. It's the prosecution of political crime. And they're gonna tell me that Christ was out and they lost him and they couldn't find him again. If that's possible! He was found fifteen days before the election and a whole story was set, which would shake the Koydall. "Slow the eggs," you guys! Who would blow the Crowley? The guys who put gas and I don't know what else? We're talking out of reality! Too much outside! So let's go down there. Why is there no protest about Christ? In Juda, with fewer illnesses, several prisoners with great penalties, life, twenty-five years came out with irresponsible damage. In Greece, a lot of them have come out with nothing. Savvas why? Is everyone up there? Did he just kill him? The others didn't kill? So let's see what's behind this whole thing. It's a propagandaist - how do I call it? - an outburst, a black propaganda. And I say it 'black', because this propaganda is completely falsifying the truth. It is not based on any historical event. And when we make propaganda, without standing on real facts and respecting the truth, then this propaganda is black propaganda. Let's go to the hoodmen and the hoodmen. And that took me back to the juda era. When some protested in the junta era and their protest from a proclamation was made a bomb, say what you want - the Criminal Code was amended. I don't remember if it was Article 173 or 174 that said that if you cause a flood, a fire, a disaster in public property with an explosive, the sentence from five years to life imprisonment. And the question came to court by lawyers: How is it possible for a person who goes and burns public property with a simple fire to be punished for five years and whoever burns it with arson material is punished for life? What's the logic? It's clear what the logic was. It was a political concept that Juda had to hit the protest movement that way. He obviously did not, because until he fell, these cases had risen. The same happened with the "cockman". Is the hooded violence stopped? He obviously didn't stop. He must've been intensified. You want to talk more about the hoodmen? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. How many complaints were made during the protests in Article 16, where we saw the police cages stop in front of the Propylas, open the door, go out in uniform and black-dressed hood drivers and go to do the damage they did? Who's gonna talk about them and when? Wasn't that story then? What, then, did the famous "cooper"? Nothing worked. He just showed the political myopia of those who had the inspiration to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Mr Tsirkas Vassiliou has the floor, followed by Mrs Maria Triantafyllou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u272	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill introduces into Greek a modern and humanist concept of how prisons should be dealt with and, more generally, anti-crime policy. By setting basic axes to these respect for human rights and the elimination of any suspicion of torture, he looks at the problem in the face and attempts to deal with it decisively. I believe that this bill is not a classic bill on decongestion of prisons. It is a very serious but also necessary effort to reconnect the country with the principles of humanitarian law. Nevertheless, it actually achieves the decongestion of prisons, because the overpopulation in prisons is responsible, not least for the inhumane detention conditions in the penitentiary. Furthermore, the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights on detention conditions in Greece are indicative. It has been said several times today that only in recent years our country has often been convicted with appealing prisoners for violation of Article 3 of the ECHR, due to detention conditions, since the court has found that these conditions are inhuman and degrading treatment. In fact, it is also a great deal of money that our country has to pay. In particular, with regard to Article 1 which abolishes detention shops type III, the reactions caused by the introduction of this type of prison to the Greek penitentiary system are known. In fact, in those countries that are still in existence, they have been denounced by the international organisations, after they are violating all human rights concepts. It is true that we did not contribute in any known way to the implementation of the sentence, attributed to a prisoner, in the sense that legal science requires. The penalty exists for the redefinition of the person who has dismantled the social order and has been subject to reintegration for one reason. So let us ask ourselves what the real reason for their existence was. In no case does their existence serve the needs of the penitentiary system, since regardless of its crime or criminal deception, prisonism is also the ultimate goal of incarceration. That is why it is also called'penitentiary'. So let us be answered by the prosecutors of this bill what those prisons have achieved and, if they have had any effect on the safety of the citizens. Does it give rise to fear in the soul of the aspiring criminal that he will be confined to such a store, so that he will not commit the crime? Ladies and gentlemen, fear does not eliminate crime. He's just postponing it. Finally, the reason for their existence begins to be incomprehensible and in a democratic legal system the concept of incomprehensible is incontrovertible with what is required. It therefore contrasts with the principle of proportionality as a general principle of legal order and contrary to Article 3 of the Penitentiary Code. Greece is one of the countries with the highest percentage of condoms in the European Union. He holds one of the highest percentages of foreign detainees, as well as one of the highest percentages of minor detainees. This bill, therefore, re-establishes the way that the legislator faces inadmissibility and increases the limits of the criminal liability of minors. Moreover, a proper reform of the penitentiary system should extend and start with minors. In addition, the penalty is imposed as a regulated reaction by the State to the crime by insulting the perpetrator's goods. But when the perpetrator is a minor, we must be double careful about the result we produce. What, then, does the penalty pursue in this case? If we accept the fact that prison, as an institution, with society, is transporting vessels, we find that every day from the first, we fail to export the results we seek. And since they are transporting containers, in the sense of mutual supply, at second reading, we are failing as a society, because today the imprisoned minors are returning to the social fabric, unfortunately, trapped in the vicious cycle of crime, depriving them, in their prisons and basic rights. The bill consolidates - I would say - and extends to overcoming the treatment of various categories of detainees. This overrun, of course, is achieved, not by transforming the rule of law into an iniquity and impunity, but by establishing principles which create a modern approach to the criminal liability of minors, in line with other European legal classes, but even with minimum standards of the United Nations for the award of justice to minors and other international conventions. Ladies and gentlemen, recent events have bombed us with a headline for opening prisons, for impunity, for lawlessness. Prisons, however, do not open, as the Opposition accuses us. And that is what the citizens understand. It is not, under any circumstances, a piece of legislation with photographic provisions. We don't legislate to release someone or some people. What is going to happen, however, is a modern and in line with international law reform of the criminal and penal mechanisms. Our prisons are full of over-aged, disabled, cancer patients. It is therefore possible to introduce ratings and according to the state of health of each individual or the disability rate, which are treated differently and can be fired. This is because the role of penitentiary is not to kill the prisoners, humiliate the concept of justice and humanism. All the proposed provisions therefore comply with the generally accepted rules of international law and international criminal practice, both inadmissibility and serious detainees. The whole effort should, at the end of the day, reach a fundamental goal, ensure the smooth reintegration of detainees into society, making prisons a second chance in life. With the proposed changes, prisons will certainly not become socially beneficial nor will the distortions of our penitentiary be eliminated. But they will cease to be harmful to the extent that they were until today. It is said that no one really knows a nation until it's in their prisons. "A nation should not be judged by how it treats its highest citizens, but the lowest," Nelson Mandela says. This government will ultimately be judged by what prisons we will be handing over, because, unfortunately, the prisons we received do not honor neither our democracy nor our culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Circa. Now Mrs Triantafyl Maria has the floor, and immediately afterwards Mr Ursouzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, because the bill has been analysed by several previous speakers, I think it is important to see in what climate and what state we are debating and voting on this bill. We are talking at a time when our people have decided that we must first of all change the political situation, but also the direction in the country, so that there can be those necessary conditions, which will then help our country's social and economic outlet from the crisis of globalised capitalism and the aggression of financial capital towards man and his needs. It is an historic choice that our people have been fighting for a long time. And it's not just about him. We are living a choice that can open streets for the rest of the peoples. It is an example that inspires, an example that demonstrates that it is worth dare, fight, and win. We are living a time when the struggles are able to win. Let us see what the current government chooses to do, what priorities it puts, beyond this bill and why. This is the negotiation - for the first time - of the people's interests and interests in general. The freezing of the country's infrastructure and the recovery of the humanitarian crisis. The restoration of injustices and the reconstruction of society. Treatment of the wave of refugees from war zones. The launch of a dialogue between the Ministry of Labour and the social partners. The independent, multi-faceted and essential foreign policy. And that is precisely why there is the rabies attempt to depreciate, slash, not just the government, but a left-wing effort. And you show, gentlemen, that you do not realize that both the simplest change and the simplest housekeeping requires huge political support. In fact, the housekeeping, in my view, is never a simple thing. Let us see in this bill what exactly comes to change the political introduction of such a law. In this bill, which does not solve the problem of prisons, neither inequality nor social pathogens, there are positive signs, positive signs. Such is the abolition of Type III prisons, the minimisation of the incarceration of minors, the dismissal of conditionality for over-aged people, for disabled persons, for patients, the genuine treatment of the problem of hosted foreigners, the criminal treatment of bullying, the beneficial calculation of the sentence for prisoners participating in rehab programmes and arrangements for the effective implementation of the 2013 Dependants Act, i.e. the selection of rehabilitation instead of prison. In a world that all coexist, such as despair, dignity, and barbarism, it would be desirable and necessary to discuss our penitentiary system over time, its inadequacies, its misery, as described, for the reality of prison, which is based primarily on the mere form of deprivation of freedom. It is the most punishable in a society where freedom is viewed as a good, belonging to everyone in the same way and which everyone feels universal and irreversible. And instead of that, you have clothed the fabric of dangerology and terror once again, anticipating results in vain, precisely because citizens are not afraid or complaining about what you are proposing. So, at a time when the old mighty bipartisanism collapsed organisationally and politically - and even through the electoral process that you do not remember or do not understand - the moment when the morality of society has risen, when a number of political reconstructions are a fact, even within the traditional right, but also many others that are under way, when the reason for counterpopulation is more blurred than ever - to the point where the New Democracy has come to open the language of lenders, as it asks the government to retreat and put mind - at this moment and again on the occasion of today's bill, the opposition chooses ideological confrontation with the substance of the bill? The former government partners are talking mainly about a bill that strengthens terrorism and the hood, as New Democracy says, and about a bill that does not remind the Left, as PASOK says, because on the one hand it is subjected to the anti-powered area, since it is tabled without any end to the occupations and they arrive to speak of election political rupture - the PASOK - and, on the other hand, precisely because the other government partner is happy to accept it, Mr Kammenos. All of this would really be important to comment. Unfortunately, however, all they are showing is the failure to identify, realize and harmonise the new role which the purely popular mandate has accorded to them, as well as the deadlock to which the neoliberal policy of the memoranda has led them, which has so loyally implemented and continue to defend, as the necessary evil that the country must suffer in every way. Perhaps the most serious thing would be that they could be cleared up first of all because they are constantly marginalized by the line taken and implemented faithfully over the last few years. And if they can't change it, let them explain Greek and honestly to the Greek people why they can't, without hiding behind the finger, who keep swinging with insolence and courage, making anemic criticism of the government, which in nothing helps the country. There is one issue to which we should all respond, I think, in this Chamber: to whom and for whom do we really want to serve democracy today? It is really difficult to understand, those who have forgotten about their relationship with the people over the years and have followed other and selective relationships, which have been promised and promised, rather, that they must first of all be loyal to them - it is therefore very difficult for them - and I am talking about the previous government partners - that, first of all, society and the struggle of the people are the ones that make democracy a tool and a weapon for progress and advancement. None of what you say frightens the people. Nothing's bothering him with what you're saying. From what you say all these days, nothing represents the Greek people. The ghosts today do not scare their people, but those who created them, namely you, those who excite them, that is, you and those who took advantage of them for so long to keep their chair warm, as some business have done - you will allow me to express - with the ticks of financial capital. Since the debate is inevitably gaining and ideological attributes, I would like to call on those who speak of the Left or in the name of the Left for a matter of general line. In what forehead and in what direction are the workers, peoples and oppressed nations of the modern world today fighting today? This question - we will not hide it - tortured SYRIZA as an Opposition and continues to torture him as a government. Only nowadays, it is clear that whatever the answer to this question, when the people choose to stand on their feet, you are with him or against him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u275	Thank you, Mrs Triantafyllou. Mr George Ursouzidis has the floor and Mr Athanasios Kumas is about to be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u276	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I am here to testify to a witness that I have lived a few years ago. A few years ago, I visited a friend in Veroia to give him courage, because he had an adventure. The image I have reflected was, within an underground, totally inappropriate, stacked people who have waited for their turn for months to be brought to the courts to impose the penalty on them if they were found guilty. Leaving detentions, I felt very bad, because the image I saw was an image I didn't expect to see in my town. I do not know if this is the case in Veroia alone or in other cities, but I felt a guilt within me, because all these years that have passed I had not done anything, I did not care. You want life, you want the troubles? Today I thank the Minister for giving me the opportunity from here to express these feelings and to do that action, which may help these people to be tried on time, as it will, according to the expectations of this bill, decongested in prisons and thus cease to experience such situations, which will not honor anyone. Every piece of legislation, then, is a human creation and as such cannot be perfect. It may, however, seek to improve and fairen to address the issues relating to the needs that illustrate it as a priority. I will not talk about the situation in prisons. I've already said the picture I've made from Veroia's detention centres. But I cannot help but mention the fact that our country, in a rough investigation I have carried out, has already been condemned by the European Union, as expressed by its institutions. I have heard here today many colleagues from the Qualified Opposition refer to the fact that this bill photographs cases such as Savvas Xiros, possibly others. They give me the impression that I support this bill, I have something to benefit from the fact that Savvas Dryros will be free, with all the diseases he carries on him. I don't accept that. And I do not accept it for this simple reason: First, if anyone wants to tell me that I am close to terrorism, I would rather find another way to tell me. I support the fact that something needs to be changed, which is commonly accepted, that it is wrong in our country and needs to be improved. I can't accept him telling me that I'm close to these opinions and ideas, just because he's symptomically going out of prison and going home for the rest of his life. But I must point out that in the case of Savva Xiros and 17 November, this case was nothing other than the case called "Left". On the contrary, there was disinformation and propaganda at the expense of the Left for all powers - I stress this - even those who define themselves as left-wing ones. I am talking about PASOK, which today appears in a position entirely foreign to the one it had in previous years. So the beggar of the far right is being fed at the expense of every progressive movement or citizen of that country who is advocating different things. I myself have been moving in a movement space for many years either for peaceful movements or for activities with which I disagree, such as the current process that took place in the Constitution with the people who came to defend their right to work. I am talking about the employees of ELDORADO GOLD. We, as a Chamber of Technical Chambers, expressed a different view. We approached this from a completely different perspective. So the case of Savva Xiros is the case from which the Left has absolutely nothing to benefit. I think I'm saying certain things. However, I would also like to stress the case of the Romans, a man who serves a punishment and exercises his right. He participated in tests and succeeded. We saw how difficult the previous government was to recognise him the right of access to studies. This draft law promotes these issues and tackles them with what we say 'a second chance'. Especially young people are absolutely essential. I would also like to stress that every piece of legislation, no matter how wise it is, presupposes people who will be invited to implement it, to serve it. Some steps must certainly be taken in this direction so that this bill is actually being trained and made a useful act for our society. We have heard about photographic provisions relating to terrorism, which go back to intelligent issues, which, depending on the ability and openness of one's speech, impresses the public. But what I will not leave a business is the reference made to Mr Constantopoulos and his visit to Skouria, Halkidiki in 1996. And I do this because it was left to understand that this man under the present circumstances, the real events that are taking place there, could defend this situation again. I shall therefore mention the dates. In December 2003 here, in this House, the law to transfer rights from "TVX" to "EUROPEAN GOLD PHOENIX" interests "Actor" was passed, and from there to "ELDORADO GOLD", when everyone knew that the forthcoming elections would highlight another government. The next government that accused the national contractors, you know very well as, on October 2, 2009, two days before the elections and while she knew very well that she was going home, approved the EIA, Environmental Preliminary Assessment and Evaluation. All I'm saying here, I've told it at a number of forums between young people. What kind of citizens do you think can produce such behaviour, such as that of the PASOK representative today from this Step, distorting the truth and even unjustifying people who have in the past displayed a boldness and a boldness on the issues they were asked to serve? Finally, Minister, I want to tell you that in my place they say that when a school closes, it opens a prison. I think that your legislation in question is in the opposite direction, and that is why I am very pleased to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u277	Mr Athanasios Scumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u278	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what we have been through these days and in the committee, but today in plenary is an attempt on the part of the Opposition to create a situation of disorientation from what we are discussing, namely, the bill itself, from its very essence and essentially into a catastrophe, such as catastrophe is the overall policy of counter-population, in terms of the short time of the current government. Therefore, instead of standing on this issue, in these urgent arrangements relating to anti-crime policy, the issue of the abolition of press prisons, the issue of dealing with overpopulation within prisons, the problems of a lack of hospitals and nursing politics and the issue of dealing with drug dependence as a matter of serious concern, we have seen the attempt to smash, depreciation, not only of SYRIZA's policy, but of slashing and penalising people. That is precisely what this policy has been because there is no political argument and it is hiding precisely its deficit to date in policy on these issues, the political responsibility that has led to the current situation in the prisons and the explosives that have been created. Therefore, the bill comes to resolve exactly such issues in an urgent form, neither the Minister himself nor the government say that all matters are dealt with in this way. Of course, there is a need for a number of measures that will be needed to enable the issue of prisons, the issue of anti-crime policy and the penitentiary issue as a whole to be raised on a fundamental basis, on a plan that can deal with the problems. The overpopulation according to the International Center for Guards Study is therefore being treated: thirteen thousand per cent forty-seven prisoners without including bookings, Greece sixty in the world rankings, 133.9% overpopulation and third in the pan-European ranking. For type III prisons, what is proposed? It is proposed that an institution aimed at reducing rights and extermination of detainees should be abolished without any connection to prison and security. I would remind you of the text of the forty of a university on Type III prisons where it raised serious issues of constitutionality and a lack of proportionality in relation to the proposed measure at the time adopted by Law 4274/2014. In fact, there was no effectiveness in preventing organised crime, in security conditions within prisons, in the health of prisoners and in limiting violence within prisons. Finally, such prisons produce violence, corruption and organised crime within them, and deal with a preventive disciplinary measure essentially without the guarantees resulting from the principle of legality of the disciplinary procedure. Isolation is intensified, as communication with the social environment is limited with a clear focus on reducing the rights of detainees. I would remind you that the visit of Members to a hospital of prisoners, regardless of who they are, was considered and possessed by the Opposition and the Media, without taking into account that this attitude of communication broke the isolation they wanted to impose. This purely punishing practice is not dictated by any judicial authority, and is essentially contrary to the provisions of the current Penal Code, Articles 3 and 4, which impose distinct treatment for the benefit of the detainees rather than against them. In international and international treaties and principles of international law and in the debate held in the committees at the hearing of the bodies, all parties were in favour of abolishing this type of prison. I would also like to make it clear and also to point out that exactly these points on the part of operators in the committee were not notified in any way in the form they had and in this practically unanimous position in the media. It is accidental that, at the same time as the social actors involved in these issues, they actually adopted this provision, but also the other provisions of the draft law in the media, and the Acoustic Opposition and the other opposition parties together, have created a situation which has nothing to do with the operators' attitude to these issues, that is to say, these issues that we have been discussing, in fact? The Minister said before - not to repeat - that the Committee on Prevention against Torture is here recently and, three or four years ago, it also made the public statement critical of the conditions of detention. It has the stress and the Minister, like all those who think about it, that there can also be a corresponding public statement, which once again condemns the Greek prisons and condemns the country. The question, therefore, is that decongestion becomes necessary in order to tackle all these problems. The opposition was pushed into a review, although a number of laws have been passed in 2005, 2008, two in 2009, one in 2010, one in 2012 and one in 2014 -- precisely in terms of the logic of decongestion. The question was raised here today and the committee too was whether the Minister and the government are legislating in general principles of law or on the basis of the ideological affiliations of the area, which occupies buildings and does not give a sense of security. So, what's the government doing? The government, in essence, is making arrangements on the basis of the exhortations of international organizations and on the basis of what the United Nations says 'a plan to reduce overpopulation'. In short-term strategies: release of detainees with serious health problems or disability for elderly people or people diagnosed with fatal diseases for example cancer, AIDS, release of detainees following amnesty or revision of illegal detention, limitation of the effect of overpopulation by switching to low-security prisoners, use of the measure of early release, protection of physical and mental health of detainees, training of staff, prevention of corruption, medium-term strategies by simplifying and speeding up the process of returning justice, reducing condoms, improving and expanding alternatives to sentences, and, of course, long-term strategies for reducing penalty limits, limiting child detainees and, of course, improving the effectiveness of the system of awarding criminal justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. At the same time, the provisions on minors, on drugs, were also considered by the institutions to be particularly important and positive and a provision was essentially put in the target of counter-population, which concerns the issue of the release of 80% detainees. It is laid down that, if they have been deprived of their freedom for ten years, they can serve their sentence under house arrest, and indeed the Minister has adopted a proposal on this subject in committee. I will read only a statement made in May 1996 when a similar bill in the Greek Parliament was being discussed. So then Constantine Mitsotakis said that the continued exception from the provisions applicable to all Greeks could perhaps be considered as an anti-constitutional one. Why should the most heinous killer, who has caused the common sense, come out and be constantly excluded from the man who committed this crime, but who has paid for many years the crime he committed? At that time, the release of the Aprilians and Mr Mitsotakis had been supported, but also by the POLAN party. What, then, is the stake? Do we want to have a firm stand on issues relating to humanity, or do we want to have one on a case-by-case basis, and do we want a different attitude? The bill is in the right direction. It is the first phase of broader legislative intervention to address prison issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Skuma. Mrs Eleni Stamatakis has the floor and will be followed by the last speaker for today, Mrs Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou. Mrs Stamaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u280	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is the second time I have been talking about your Presidency. The first time I asked you to give me some more time. Today I think I have well calculated my speech, but if I have not done so, if I have not properly calculated it, I ask you to give me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u281	All right, Mrs. Stamaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u282	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is really very important, as is, of course, all the bills that have been tabled so far by the government. However, this is of key importance, because it concerns human lives, patients, people with great disability, drug addicted and sensitive social groups, such as minors, mothers with young children, foreigners, Roma. I think we need to deal with the situation in prisons through a new approach, which will constitute a string of realism, rationalism, but above all humanism, because it concerns human lives, as I have already said, and, in any case, human life is a supreme good. I therefore call on everyone and everyone to exhaust all the stocks of sensitivity and understanding on this serious issue. As many as those of you, ladies and gentlemen, you have visited some of the prisons in the country, you will actually have personal experience and a picture of the current situation. The conditions are tragic and often the climate is explosive. We have already seen this since the entry of the prison. From the waiting spaces, until you reach out to the prisoner, you realize how the prison system works and you realize that anything but penitentiary is. Many of the inmates are minors, severely ill, elderly, women with young children, often piled in cells, in very poor conditions, which do not meet the conditions required for both health and dignity. In particular, there are unacceptable hygiene conditions, in cells with twice as many detainees as their planned capacity, in pre-built spaces limited, education and entertainment infrastructures that do not exist. It is a typical case in which the Igoumenitsa Unique Chamber of Appeal in 2012, by decision No. 682/2012, acquitted the immigrants who escaped from the Igoumenitsa Police Department detentions due to the awkwardness of their detention conditions. In particular, the President of the Chair appears to have ruled: 'You have acted out of humiliation, so you are innocent.' One should not forget that the prisoner is a man who still has rights, despite the fact that he is in prison and that human prisons are not luxury, but the mirror of a favoured, democratic and civilized society. The purpose of the sentence is not revenge, but the penalisation of what committed the crime and the example of others. So the purpose of the sentence is double, it has two general features. One is the general prevention of evil, namely to prevent others from wanting to commit the same offence. It also has a special prevention, that is to say to prevent the individual from re-criminating. It is clear from this that whatever the motives of the person who committed the offence, it is necessary for him to have a cleansing and cleansing character, in other words, to play an advising role and not to be charged with evidence of vengeance. In response to some of the arguments that have been heard, it is immediate need to change the conditions and conditions of detention. Let us not fool ourselves, the creation of the prison sentence today is very little in the social reintegration of the individual and in the prevention of criminal acts reappearing. Instead, the phenomena of crime and infractional behaviour are exacerbated within and outside the prison borders, and we have many recent examples to recall in our memory. After all, the cost of incarceration is disproportionately higher than in spare parts, extra-institutional measures, especially for minors, but also for other prisoners. For example, in type III prisons, higher amounts of money have been spent on guarding prisoners, and it is indeed proven that their penitentiary function is limited. Today's bill, apart from the decongestion of prisons, comes to restore and strengthen the rule of law, the state that gives a second chance by opening up and not closing the paths of reintegration into society and, at the same time, comes to bend with sensitivity to vulnerable groups. The bill contains a number of arrangements for minors, with the aim of limiting to the minimum the need for freedom of movement and strengthening the measures for education and treatment at all stages of criminal proceedings. Where a prison closes, it opens a school and vice versa. Furthermore, this is a considerable commitment of the country, after having ratified the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, where Article 40 shows that detention is the last instrument. The structures and ways to integrate young people must be sought by society, with great care and diligence. The aim is to prevent and admonishment rather than revenge. This bill ensures conditions of detention that guarantee respect for human dignity, while strengthening self-respect and the development of the responsibility of minors for detainees, by providing them with opportunities for education and vocational training. A second very important one for this bill is the abolition of press detention stores, as the previous institutional framework was sufficient, and instead the creation of this type of prisons created rather than solved problems. This is because it is a prison in prison, with even tougher detention conditions and with an extra stigmatisation and unclear and doubtful how the high-risk criterion is being established for people who are referred there to serve their sentence. The mental and physical health of the detainees in this type of prison is also jeopardised, as isolation on the one hand and the inadequacy of healthcare structures on the other create serious problems, which, as a government, we refuse, in relation to the previous governments, to overlook. The bill also provides for a beneficial calculation of sentence days for prisoners participating in drug-rehabilitation programmes, with the aim of supporting their therapeutic effort and giving them incentives for a smooth reintegration into society. It is important to regulate this bill, which, as I said at the outset, we must support and vote on all the Parliamentary wares. Furthermore, the bill, in my opinion, relieves the family financially, emotionally and socially. An entire family, parents, children, wives become a target of stigmatization and undergo very large social, economic, psychological asphyxiation, isolation and exclusion. At this point I would like to point out that I look forward, on a subsequent legislative initiative, to more favourable arrangements for women detainees, for mothers of minors, for more favourable conditions in the calculation of their sentence, with their job in prisons, their creative employment and their social reintegration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u283	Thank you, Mrs Stamatakis. Mrs Chryssoula Katsavria - Siropoulou, last speaker for the evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u284	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am carefully following the positions of various Members of the House today in this bill. Unfortunately, I haven't identified any wealth of arguments. While everyone distances from the de facto punishing character of the sentence, while speaking in favor of prison, one element dominates: Repeated positions, mainly the Officerial Repression, violence and lawlessness. Unfortunately, we are once again seeing the New Democracy unable to fully understand basic concepts, such as rights and detention conditions. While we are discussing how we will be able to modernise and humanise our penitentiary system at last, by giving dignity to the prisoners, by strengthening the solidarity and the vindication of a rule of law for all, you, gentlemen, see violence and lawlessness. No, well, don't terrorize the world! We are not at risk of convicts with 80% disability, who will be made redundant, having already served much of their sentence. Improving living conditions in prisons limits crime. We all know that prisons that exterminate people are finally making them anti-social. Does anyone doubt that the current penitentiary system, to a large extent, is retraining prisoners in crime? These are the issues that need to be addressed in plenary. There could be a very interesting and constructive debate today on how we can improve our penitentiary system in such a way that it fulfils its mission, namely the reintegration into society of people who at some point will be released and invited to live together with our other people. We could have such a conversation. Unfortunately, however, not with these interlocutors. Finally, the people concerned by the bill under discussion are not interested in the New Democracy. Unfortunately, these people are not interested in other parties who want to be placed in the center. How can dialogue be held on the basis of terror, fear and hysteria? Are these elements the basis and virtues of an honest dialogue? Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating at all is not about violence and terrorism. It concerns the conditions faced by people who have already passed the stages of arrest, trial and conviction. The bill is governed by a spirit of security, humanity and law. For example, the conditional dismissal for those with more than 67% disability, the positive treatment of over-aged prisoners and the restriction of child imprisonment that is what they show. They show that the aim of this government is not to exterminate the prisoners, but to replace de facto punishment from prison. Members of Parliament are stressing the crimes committed by the convicts. Gentlemen, it's obvious they've been convicted. You repeat something that no one refuses. But here we have to go back to basics. That is precisely the charm of democracy, that it treats everyone as the underlying rights, even those who have committed crime. After all, the rights enshrined in criminal and penal law by definition relate to people who have committed crime. The others do not need it, as they will not be faced with the penitentiary system. So let us leave the screams aside and discuss rights. It should be understood by Members who otherwise claim relations with political liberalism. In the government's programming statements, the Prime Minister told us that we are every word of this constitution. We call it, and we mean it. One of the most important provisions of the Constitution, which is the basis of the most substantial and fullest guarantee of rights, is Article 2(1), which refers to the value of man. That is exactly the value of man we are trying to defend and restore with today's bill. So, what's with the vocals? Unless you are satisfied with the constant convictions imposed on us by the Court of Justice of Strasbourg on the situation in Greek prisons. Now that I'm thinking about it, you're probably satisfied with these convictions, because as long as you've ruled, not only have you done nothing to improve your detention conditions, but you've consciously made them worse. There's a lot to change in prisons. SYRIZA has already demonstrated since the previous parliamentary term, but also since the inhumane conditions of detention, which insult human dignity: prisoners without heating and hot water, sealamming condemned for defects along with barbecue, over the population of six and eight people stacked in a two-person cell, almost non-existent medical control and care. Illustrations which have nothing to do with basic human rights. We expect a lot: More education for prisoners, upgrading work in prisons, improvement of visitors. We are waiting for the new immigration policy to be accelerated, which will lead to greater decongestion of prisons. We know the government will fight to deal with these issues. The way to the creation of a sound penitentiary system is long. Today, however, there is an important start. Thank you. Good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u285	Thank you, Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S2-commons.u286	With the consent of the House at 01.15', the sitting for Friday 17 April 2015 at 12.00" on the subject of the House's legislative work is closed: Continue the discussion of the draft law: "Reforms of criminal law, repealing the press detention shops and other provisions".
