ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. This is the eleventh plenary session of the House. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 13-3-2015, the minutes of its 1st meeting of Friday 13 March 2015, as regards the oath, in accordance with Article 33 of the Constitution of the elected President of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Prokopios Pavlopoulou]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform you about issues relating to Parliament and to make the communications under the Rules of Procedure, under the law and under the Constitution. I would like to inform you, therefore, that the Standing Committees on Social Affairs, Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Economic Affairs are tabling their report in the draft law: 'Consolidating direct measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and the Governmental Institutions and other provisions'. This report is on the left and right of Parliament's Chamber and it is important that all Members have it. It's about the bill we're talking about. In addition, I announce a number of decisions taken to set up specific committees. They are already made up of decisions and I am announcing them in order for the House to be aware of them. Under no 2809/1719/2-2015, the President of the Parliament was appointed as Chairman of the Special Standing Committee on European Affairs, Mr Alexios Metropolis I Vice-President of the Parliament, pursuant to Rules 32a, 11 and 12(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. Under the decision of the President of Parliament under Rule 32 A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament for the PF parliamentary term, the Special Standing Committee on European Affairs was established under the decision of 3918/2486/11-3-2015. I would remind you that it is one of the committees set up for the whole period and not just for the current summit. Under No 3919/2487/11-3-2015, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made in Article 31A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Reporting Committee and the General Balance sheet of the State and Control of the State's implementation. Under No 3920/2486/11-3-2015, the decision of the President of the Parliament was established under Rule 31B of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Special Standing Committee on Equipment and Contracts. Under the decision of the President of Parliament, the Special Standing Standing Committee on the Monitoring of the Social Security System was established under Article 31C of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The relevant decisions, as I have told you, have already been posted to parliamentary transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u2	Mr. Fortsakis, if one of your students did this, you would've hit him. I will also be allowed to inform you that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament on 13-03-2015, pursuant to articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 1, 2 and 4 of the L. 3126/2003 on the "Criminal Responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, criminal court formed following the 21-12/2012 report of the Kingdom of Leonida Papadopoulos, as a representative of the political party "KINAMA NOT PLONO", which concerns the former Minister of Finance Mr Ioannis Stournaras, for the allegedly committed offence of the offense in the course of the offence, pursuant to Article 186(2) of the Criminal Code, in the performance of his duties. Also, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Minister forwarded to Parliament on 13-03-2015, in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and 1, 2 and 4 of the Law. 3126/2003 on "Prime responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, for criminal proceedings which were formed following the 3-10-2014 sues of Mytilini-based public limited company "NATILICA LESBOU S.A." for the former Minister of Shipping and the Aegean, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, for the offence allegedly committed, in accordance with Article 169 of the Criminal Code, in the performance of his duties. I would also like to inform you that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute Members of Parliament. I think that the reports have already been posted. Finally, I would like to inform you that three requests have been made to the Bureau for a absence permit abroad. This is the 12-3-2015 request from Mr Kyriakos Charakides from the Potami Parliamentary Group, who calls for his absence permission to be approved abroad for the period from 13-3-2015 to 16-3-2015 for family reasons. In any case, that date has elapsed without a plenary sitting. Also, there is the current date for a request by MP Christina Tachiaou from the Pontami Parliamentary Pompidou with which he seeks permission for a justified absence from Parliament's work on the dates from 25 to 29 March 2015, as he will need to be absent abroad for personal reasons. Finally, there is the 11-3-2015 request from the MP of the Golden Dawn Group Georgios Galeos, who informs us that during the period from 30 March to 20 April he will be absent abroad for family reasons and seek permission, in accordance with Rule 76(3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Does the House approve the requested permissions for a short-day absence of colleagues for personal and family reasons?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u3	The House approved the requested permits. As we have said in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the question of Members' presence will be dealt with as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A single debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: 'Requirements for direct measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and the Governmental Institutions and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents, which met on Friday, March 13th - shortly before the Observation of the President of the Republic - decided that the draft law should be discussed in three meetings, particularly this afternoon, tomorrow morning and tomorrow afternoon, in order to give the speakers and Parliament time to discuss the items of the bill. I would remind you that this bill falls within the competence of three standing committees, the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Civil Service, Public Order and Justice. That is why the three committees which met together and submitted their report were referred to it. I would like to inform you - since it is the first plenary sitting on a legislative subject - that the debate takes precedence over the articles at first instance. So tonight I propose that we devote the afternoon process to the first debate. The procedure to be followed in respect of the principle of discussion of the bills shall refer solely to their purpose and content, in accordance with Rule 95(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The first discussion of the bill begins with its oral development by the relevant Minister - and we will do so, so we shall begin with the first development by the relevant Minister or Minister or Minister or Minister - then the rapporteurs and special speakers will speak and then the Members who have been on the list of speakers in the debate, without prejudice to Rule 64(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this House. The list of speakers will be signed by your e-card during the contributions of the first two rapporteurs. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. This means that until the first placements are exhausted, a second one may be required. The votes in the first debate on the draft law shall, in analogy, be governed by Rules 64, 97 and 98 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I propose that this evening's sitting be closed by one hour. I will propose to this House - to decide now and to be able to proceed - if we have many speakers and do not give up at one hour, to interrupt the sitting and continue tomorrow for a two-hour period in order to conclude - if this is the case, because we have dealt with it in another debate - and then enter the next two meetings of the next part-session. I would also like to inform you that ministerial amendments have been tabled. I expect the Ministers who have tabled ministerial amendments - most of them in due course - to the debate this evening and at the latest by the end of tomorrow, before we enter a circle of speeches on the amendments, to state the reasons why they are proposing the introduction of these amendments in order for the plenary to assess whether they are allowed to be discussed in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. The amendments which are relevant and justify their urgent introduction will be accepted. However, those who do not justify relevance and urgency realise that they cannot be imported in this way. I suggest, however, that we listen to the ministers who submit them and that this House then decides until tomorrow at the end of the second sitting and before we enter the third meeting. Do you agree with this process?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u5	In what process, Madam President? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u6	Mr Brutsis has the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u7	I am sorry, Madam President, and I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u8	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u9	To get Mr. Karathanasopoulos to the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u10	No, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, you have just made a development in the direction of changing a stable process, which I do not think is a problem, as the Members of Parliament are ahead of them. We have the legislative work in which the views, through the rapporteurs, of the representatives of the parliamentary groups must be developed. That is why we believe that this procedure should not be changed. The change in this process to precede the Ministers is something that is not customary and has never been implemented again. That is why we are saying that we cannot agree to this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u12	Mr Brutsis, I read exactly what Rule 95 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure states, in order to speak in concrete terms. Article 95(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure expressly states: 'The first legislative debate begins with its oral development by the Minister responsible.' That is what the Rules of Procedure stipulate. You suggest that we do not apply it, but plenary commits itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u13	I recommend that this be done, which has been done permanently for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u14	The violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u15	It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u16	With the consent of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u17	With the agreement of the House, Madam President. So we're going to turn this House into the ministers' rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u18	First of all, who Minister will be placed? One, two, three?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u19	And the ministers aren't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u20	The drafts are submitted by the ministers, who propose them. Members express the groups and the rapporteurs. Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Theocharis have been asked for the floor. I shall give the floor in the order requested. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. As you have rightly pointed out, this is the first bill. It is essentially Parliament's first meeting on legislative work after fifty days. Of course, my speech has to do with a few remarks on the procedure, because I think that this legislative process should not start wrong. Madam President - I have heard too many colleagues from here - not to introduce 'Istanbul time' in Parliament! Please! As you have said, seven ministerial amendments and a large number of MEPs have been tabled. Madam President, in the exercise of policy - because politics is not just rhetoric and declarations, they are also projects - there are issues which need to be addressed immediately. This practice has been followed before in Parliament, often abusive. You, yourself and your group had denounced this whole process of unrelated and delayed amendments. One might think that the provision on the one-off payment of the Ministry of Finance has something to do with poor people who want to settle their debts, but the provision on the reserves of the insurance funds included in the same amendment has nothing to do with the bill. The same could be said - it has nothing to do with the bill - about the provision for the Presidency of the Republic. Not much more, the arrangement for NERITT has anything to do with it? What does the provision relating to public procurement rules relate to, too, the extension of the national general collective agreement submitted by Mr Skourlets? We agree on the substance. We waited for Mr. Skourletis's law to be placed on the whole issue. Why am I saying this, Madam President? Because in your programme statements immediately after taking up your duties you said: 'The House should not repeat the phenomena of the degeneration of the legislative function, such as the abuse of the urgency procedure and the amendments. (Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL)'. This has been recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u22	But not on your side.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u23	Now I'll see you. You also said: 'It is my commitment, from the position of the President of Parliament, that there will be no overdue amendments accepted or irrelevant to the subject of the bills'. I have therefore told you that these amendments and that they are unnecessarily late. We could take some urgent measures in good faith. I am not talking about the others relating to the bill on food, medical care, etc. However, I would like your personal position, as President of Parliament, on the basis of what you have said and what you have already said, as to what was right. What you've done in the past, denouncing everyone and everything or what you're trying to do now, undoing your own announcements? Madam President, you must decide and inform the House by what procedure this Parliamentary Session will be going to take, so that we too will be placed accordingly. I think in any case - and we will be in detail - that what I mentioned is both unnecessary and delayed in relation to the contents of the draft law that we are discussing. So before the ministers were placed, I would also like your personal opinion, Madam President, to know how we will legislate from now on where you have the responsibility of the Bureau. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u25	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u26	Yes, Mr. Voutsi, I saw you a minute. Mr. Kutsuko, as if you didn't hear what I said at the opening of the meeting. I will repeat this because I really feel that you have not listened to it. Amendments have been tabled, most of them in the short term. However, in the short term, the ministers should explain and suggest why they claim they should be associated with the bill. We will give them the opportunity to explain and the House will decide. Of course, you have no doubts, everyone will also be given responsibility. As you have said, there are amendments that by their very title are also relevant and urgent, and there are others on which it is not quite obvious that they are relevant and urgent. We will expect to hear the ministers and to have no doubt that at least from a Bureau point of view those which have been supported at the beginning of the period will be implemented. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction has the floor, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to talk about the government's position on this matter, because perhaps we would like, in my opinion, to have other amendments in this bill. We are talking here about the substance of the matter and we are talking politically. The cycle of the previous government has not been completed. We know that very well. It has fallen through the procedure of the specific articles of the Constitution, because the President of the Republic has not been elected. In fact, this has happened in the last few days of last year, with just a budget being passed, which obliges the next year that any government will keep it, and on the basis of looselines and deadlines which even have to do with international treaties, commitments or obligations of the previous government to partners, etc. It is therefore essential. This debate cannot be typistic in terms of the first bill - for that is what we are talking about - which is what it comes up with. Because, of course, the government's programming declarations and the commitments made by the President of this House are valid and must be fully implemented over the years, since we have a normality in the legislative work of this House and the political work that is produced by the government, for which we are inhabited. I've heard Mr. Koutsuko say it's been fifty days. I would say seventy-eight days has not been legislated by the House, that is, since the previous government fell. In this sense, issues that should be dealt with at this time and - I repeat - are much more than those which have finally been accepted to come as amendments, by tolerance and by economic means, but in a very political way - because on this basis we are discussing in here - I believe that they should be accepted for discussion and, if the majority of this House agrees, they should be legislated, so that we can obtain a regularity in the procedures. It is not right, however, that I am sorry, Madam President, because I have longed, but I am ending with it - to abandon the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group or the President for what we have done for two and a half years here, when it was, as you remember, mere summer seasons, while there was legislative work stacked to talk about it. In other words, there were very specific phases in which there were perfectly legitimate objections, even from Members of the majority at the time. Now it is a completely specific case, which we call on you to respect, so that all together, in the commitments we have made together plus the time, can move from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Voutsi. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u29	Madam President, you have referred to the way in which this draft law and a specific Rule of the Rules of Procedure are discussed. However, there is also Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, which says in paragraph 2 that the debates on the bills and drafts of law are given first of all to the relevant ministers, if they so request, are the rapporteurs and any special speakers and six Members in order of registration. The procedure, Madam President, has so far been the one we have been following. In other words, if they had something new to add on the basis of the debate held in the committees, they were given the floor, had amendments or new provisions which could be brought forward and then followed by the presentation by the rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups in this bill. Why now change the procedure and set the procedure you say, namely that the ministers take the lead and then follow the rapporteurs? This alters the nature of the position and of the parliamentary representatives. In other words, when will the Parliamentary Representatives speak? From this point of view, Madam President, we insist that the whole process followed over the past few years, without any particular reason, should be followed today. That is to say, if they have something to add to and ask for it, then of course they will be given the floor. Otherwise, to start the rapporteurs and the special speakers and to proceed with the process as it has been until now, because we do not believe there is any reason to change this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u30	Mr Karthanasopoulos, there is no question of the application of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules are clear. Article 95 provides for a special procedure than Article 64 on the subject of discussion in general. In Article 95 he speaks specifically of the first debate. We are therefore not discussing whether to violate the Rules of Procedure at this time. We will apply the Rules of Procedure. After all, if we did not have this whole debate, the Minister would have spoken. You have the floor, Mr. Theocharis, and then Mr. Matthews, and then Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to place myself on a point of order. We have no experience of whether the ministers should start, I was not at a previous summit. I think, however, that I should like to refer again to the issue raised by Mr Koutsoukos. On the question of whether or not certain amendments are late or not, I think that there is no question of that. It is something that is objective and I think it was express in your commitment that this Session, under your Presidency, would not accept late amendments. We believe that this was right, and I think it should be respected, in accordance with the announcements you yourself made when taking up your duties. We were watching in the past and I watched as a simple citizen to use - I do not want to say a trick - this process, in which the Bureau or the Conference of Presidents may be absolved and bring it to this House to decide. The House has a specific parliamentary majority, and obviously any amendment put to the House, in the parliamentary majority, which wants to vote on it, will obviously accept that it should and should be accepted, whether it is time-consuming and, regardless of whether it is actually relevant. We do not think that such a procedure should be followed. The Conference of Presidents or the Bureau in consultation with the parties should decide whether or not an amendment is relevant. We are tabling amendments, for example on the rules, and we are waiting for a bill which, from what we hear, will probably come tomorrow under the urgency procedure. In conclusion, this is another procedure for which you said there would be no misuse. Here too, we see an amendment one day ago, and the next day we will discuss the same part of the matter. We think that, given that this is the first bill by the government and gives the tone of what will follow, we should eliminate it as far as possible. So that is what we are asking you to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u32	Mr Theocharis, I must inform the House that, first of all, I do not know what you are saying for a period of time that you were following them as a simple citizen, but until June you were following as Secretary-General of the Income, with a direct link with the Treasury which brought these amendments. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I must inform you that at the Conference of Presidents all opposition parties and your party and the Communist Party and the New Democracy expressed their understanding of the urgency and the need to table amendments. It was the President who pointed out that the plenary should nevertheless see it. Therefore, you are 'violating open doors' when you point out things that will be done in the way provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Mr Mathiopoulos and Mr Nicholas, Mr Vroutsis and Mr Philis, then, have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, sticking to procedural details by those who consciously and continuously circumvented every concept of constitutional law and the concept of law is not only hypocritical but also outrageous. On the occasion of today's debate on such a very important draft law, which will take place in a Parliament which is again incomplete, I would like to denounce a phenomenon which insults democracy itself, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Greek Constitution and which deletes popular sovereignty and - let me also offend your own role as President of Parliament. It is the phenomenon of the ban on active MPs and temporarily convicted Members of the Golden Dawn, the leader of the third political force and other competitor. Because this has to be done at long last. They're not my words. I would remind you that, when you took up your duties, you committed yourself to guaranteeing the smooth functioning of Parliament through your new institutional role. You have rightly brought an example of the potential abolition of all the memorial laws that were passed in the absence of the Members of the Golden Dawn who expressed their desire to be present either in the debate or in the votes. But because of force majeure, an arbitrary prosecutor, voluntarily, without any justification, forbade their attendance and so all the anticipated - supposedly - parliamentary procedures were carried out. I would like to give you the time of yesterday's legal request, which was rejected without even complying with the procedures laid down. Yesterday, therefore, a request was made by all the Members who asked to be present today to discuss and vote. The reason for this was that today the debate only concerns the debate and not a vote. It is therefore not necessary for the Members to be here today. So we have tabled a new request today - we have come with a new request - presenting Parliament documents which demonstrate that today's debate is due to have the voting procedure, which no one has refused. Again, the prison prosecutor refused this request, the turnout of the Members of Parliament today, but without giving them the document, ironically showing them the previous demand on which he had a manuscript which, with a pen, had the word'rejected'. So these disgraceful practices which afflict the role of Members, afflict the role of Parliament, must finally come to an end. And it is shameful for the others who cling to various procedural issues and do not denounce the obvious, that today's composition of the House is incomplete and any derivative of today's procedure is wrong. Because people have expressed their desire to be here today, but for reasons of force majeure they are not allowed to do so. And we come to the point, Madam President. We will come with a request for a roll-call vote. I shall read out the list of names and within them are people who are not here today because of the situation that we described earlier. I would ask that the Bureau be given the request for the roll-call vote. I raise a personal issue because you gave us this right, Madam President. On the occasion of your first announcement as President of Parliament you said that you would guarantee the smooth functioning of Parliament, which means that the illegally convicted Members should be present if they express their wish to be present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Matthew. The voting issues will be dealt with when the circle of rapporteurs is completed. The question you raise, anyway, on the basis of the previous debate in plenary, will be dealt with by the House. With regard to the procedural issue of the progress of the procedure, Mr Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u35	On the subject that has been heard, we will also be on the initiative of the Government here in the Chamber. However, it is worth noting that last time we heard here in plenary that they should not be involved, because they would be voting and they were not their main profession. Today, we hear 'why we will only have a debate'. The day before yesterday we learned that Mr. Cassidy found himself out to participate - he says - in the library committee. He seems to be a university professor, he's wise! I do not know why the Vice-President said 'yes' and today he says 'no'. On this subject, Madam President, I have been here since 1989. It seems that the House has acquired a president who will not have the "Istanbul time", which we have heard, but at all times he will have Zoe Konstantopoulou, with votes not only of the majority, not only of SYRIZA or of the Independent Greeks, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u36	Are you relatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u37	What did you say, Mr. Tasoula? So I say, with the vote of Mr Tassoula and the vote of all those who, one 24 hours later, asked to see the political identity of Mrs Constantopoulos and told her that, because we voted on you, you should not be Mrs Constantopoulos with the well-known political and ideological position. So today you are bringing an issue that we are addressing to the essence of. The Members who are here today and have not been in the committees to listen to the Minister or the ministers, do they not want to hear? In other words, the Members who signed the Rules of Procedure who voted for the Rules of Procedure, what did they have in mind? Did they have this in mind, ladies and gentlemen? That those who are here today, very logically, would like to hear the Minister who brings this bill to the legislature, because he knows it better, and he obviously knows it, by the rapporteur, why he is experiencing it, because he will transmit it to everyone in a few minutes to get the first taste. Why don't we see it? Why don't we try it? What is the reason for this whole debate? And when will the Parliamentary Representatives speak? Tomorrow morning. You said, 'If time is not enough, tomorrow morning'. We will have heard our colleagues too. Madam President, we have no doubt that we should implement, as you said, the Rules of Procedure. In other words, as you have said, we are in agreement with the procedure. I would ask you, however, to do so very much, so that the House and the last of you or the spokesman do not want this House to be a 'introduction'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House forty-three students and five educational attendants from the 12th Municipal School of Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Friend, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Madam President, the truth is that the time has gone 19.15', that is, one hour and a quarter since the opening of the sitting was scheduled. Unfortunately, we are a little late in the process, and we are now eating matters that are not as important as it is at the moment. Let us bear in mind that the House cannot operate at the expense of Members of Parliament, namely, the procedure for Members' speeches. With regard to the issues which have been raised, on the subject of the amendments, I think it is hypocritical to raise a point on the part of colleagues from the old government parties. We do not bring intolerable amendments to give gifts at night to great interests. We do not bring dozens of amendments just before the House closes to ensure that there are fair economic and political interests. The amendments which have been tabled correspond to the urgency of the people's problems that need to be addressed. It is also the bill that we are discussing today in response to the humanitarian crisis with related issues. In addition, the amendments put forward in this House are amendments which respond to the state's urgent problems at a time when, as the Minister mentioned earlier, there has been a peculiar cut in Parliament's work for more than a month, due to the elections that have been held in the way we all know. In this respect, now, with the issues that have been raised, whether or not Members should be promoted in our debate today: I have heard that there is a custom in the functioning of Parliament. I think it is reasonable and in response to the need to speak first and foremost in this Chamber to express the opinion of the Members. If the Ministers are to be proposed, I fear that there will be a deterioration in the functioning of the parties' rapporteurs, as well as of the informal functioning, which is done each time, regarding the intervention of the relevant ministers, with the participation of the parliamentary representatives. I therefore believe that we should give, throughout the short two-day procedure we have - today and tomorrow, the morning and the afternoon - the possibility of the whole process being essential. It should not be focused, one would say, in the government's view, and not in the functioning of this House, our debate. I believe that it should give way to this issue which the government itself raised. The ministers themselves should tell us whether they will make use of their discretion to promote the debate or take part normally as they have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Friend, I think I made it clear. It shall not be discussed or negotiated whether the House will apply the Rules of Procedure. It will apply the Rules of Procedure and because it is the debate in principle and cannot take place on a draft law that has not been presented, the ministers will be proposed to put it forward at the outset. That is what the Rules of Procedure of Parliament say, and that is what this House will do. This House will apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u41	Then why the debate for one hour, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u42	Then why are we talking about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u43	Because those who have asked for the floor and for a long time have been placed "Why are we talking?", we are debating why you asked for the floor as parliamentary representatives at the beginning of the procedure and you have consumed all the time that the ministers would need to put themselves on the table. That's what we're talking about. And since we have to decode them all, that's what we're gonna do. Here, Mr Brutsi, you have the floor for the second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u44	That's the second time. I'm sorry. You know, it's the government's first bill. I shall simply say to you that almost all the parliamentary representatives, with one exception, are in the same position. In my first place I told you that this was unparalleledly what was happening in Parliament for many years, even before I became a Member. You have invoked Rule 95, in fact by leaving all the previous Presidents of the House, all the previous parliamentary groups, you say and everyone in the past, was operating under the irregular framework, outside the Rules of Procedure. That is, Madam President, insulting, when Mr Karathanasopoulos said that there is another article - and I quote the same article - which, as President of the House, at least for the liberation of old Presidents of Parliament, you had to invoke to Parliament and say that there is another article, Rule 64(2)...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u45	I've remembranced it. It is more general, however, as you should know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u46	Yes, you mentioned it. There's also Article 64(2)...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Brutsi, let's not expand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u48	That the House decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u49	Already abusive I've given you the floor for the second time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS"... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Gentlemen, you're being watched by students and students, do you want to respect them a little?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u50	And you're being watched!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u51	Madam President, you do not decide here on your own! This is where we all decide together!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u52	I repeat, therefore, that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, twenty-two students and students and three teachers - their attendants from the Elementary School of Chania. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u53	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u54	Make it easier for the government, Mr. Voutsi. Make it easier for the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u55	Mr Voutsis, Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, has once again been asked for the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u56	I think we can go to the following procedure, Madam President, after the views have been exchanged: the main minister on the bill and the other ministers must begin with the procedure we had used to in previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u57	Why would you all talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u58	Yeah, you didn't know! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Why are you surprised? Please! For God's sake! Madam President, the main rapporteur and the other ministers must begin as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u59	The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity therefore has the floor, Mrs. Theano Fotou, in order to propose the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u60	When are the speakers written, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u61	You should watch. We said it at first. The speakers shall be registered during the placements of the first two rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u62	Madam President, I would like to announce specific legislative improvements to the draft law. In Article 1, paragraph? 1, the term ‘households’ is replaced by ‘persons and families’. In Article 2...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u63	When does the machine open? That's new!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u64	What can I do, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u65	That's new! I want to sign up to talk and I don't know when the machine opens. Are you kidding us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u66	Calm down, Mr. Georgiadis. In Article 2, the term ‘households’ is replaced by ‘persons and families’. The words ‘within the municipality of their main residence’ shall also be replaced by ‘at the place of their permanent residence’. in Article 3, the term ‘in households’ is deleted; In paragraph 1, the term ‘natural persons’ shall be replaced by ‘persons and families’. In paragraph 2, the words ‘in income shall not be counted as income such as, but not limited to, invalidity allowances granted by the State’. The committees have heard this before. I'm just announcing them in plenary. in paragraph 3, the word ‘absorbing’ is deleted; The whole of Article 4 shall be replaced by: ‘The benefits referred to in Articles 1 to 3 shall be granted in synergy with other programmes financed by national and European resources’. Finally, in Article 5, the words ‘by common Ministerial Decision’ shall be replaced by ‘joint Ministerial Decisions’ and shall be added to the authorising provision and the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction. At the end of the second subparagraph of Article 25A, which is added by Article 22 of the draft law, the following shall be added: It is all the discussion - you remember - whether there are Deputy Secretarys-General and Secretary-General to the Minister. I think that's clear. The second subparagraph of Article 25(3) added to the second subparagraph of Article 25 shall be replaced by the following: 1558/85 by Article 22 of the draft law is replaced by the following: 'Fulfilment of the positions of that paragraph shall be effected by appointment or secondment by a post of a public or legal person governed by public law or private law in the public sector'. Article 24 of the draft law is replaced by the following: Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1558/85, as amended by paragraph 2 of Article 22 of the EEC Treaty, 1735/1987 and codified as paragraph 4 of Article 55 of the Code of Legislation for the Government and the Governmental Institutions shall apply also to the political offices of the State of State.' In addition, the following subparagraphs are added third, fourth, fifth and sixth subparagraphs as follows: ‘The establishment of the political offices of the Vice-Presidents of the Government, the Deputy Ministers to the Prime Minister, the State Secretarys to the Prime Minister, and the political offices referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, may refer to the time of appointment of the Deputy Presidents of the Government and to the time when the positions of the members of the Government and its Secretarys are set up. At the political offices of the Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents of the Government and Minister, special advisers are allowed to delegate tasks to volunteers - "for a certain period of time and specific items, in excess of the set maximum number of specialist advisers and partners. The special advisers referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall be distinguished scientists or experts of a specific subject matter, in their subject-matter shall support the administrative, committees and the relevant services and be recruited by corresponding decisions of the Prime Minister, the Vice-Presidents of the Government or the relevant Ministers published in the Official Journal of the Government. Such special advisers shall serve voluntarily and shall not receive wages, allowances or other economic gains other than their travel expenses.’ These are the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u67	Madam President, I would like my time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u68	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to recommend the first chapter on the humanitarian crisis bill, because precisely in the committees for five days, in the consultation of the bodies - 20 bodies, for the first time so many bodies - I think that very serious conclusions have been drawn, great questions have been raised and questions have been raised. I would therefore like to talk to you today about everything that has happened these days and why we are talking here today. It is known that with the policies of austerity of the memoranda in Greece over recent years, poverty has touched large sections of the population. With unemployment escalating in the third quarter of 2014 to 27.8% and youth unemployment to 50.2%, hundreds of thousands of new families saw their incomes nullified and together the possibility of guaranteeing basic goods. Whether we measure poverty in absolute income terms or with other tools such as access to goods, services and activities or with the months of work of family members in one year etc. - there are too many ways of measuring it - the fact remains the same: a huge proportion of the population lives in poverty. From this, a very important section is living in extreme poverty, while there is an increasingly larger part of our people, which is at risk of poverty, that is, it is at the threshold of poverty, at risk of getting into poverty. Greece, according to EUROSTAT, is in the worst position in the European Union in this last indicator, at the threshold of poverty, at the worst of the twenty-eight countries. As far as the risk of poverty is concerned, it is among the largest poverty groups, with 23.1%. In particular, child poverty is at 28.8%. Today, not to be forgotten, the situation in our country is as follows: In October 2014, there were a million forty - five thousand three hundred unemployed -27.8% unemployment - when this whole story began in 2009, the unemployed were five hundred thousand. By 25.9% the actual minimum wage was reduced, and for young people the reduction reached 35.4%. EUR 53 billion decreased overall income from 2009 to the present, by 22.2% the country's economy shrunk compared to 2009. And, of course, the amazing thing about all the memorial and austerity policy is that debt reached 176% of GDP in the third quarter of 2014, when before the memoranda, in 2010 - not even in 2009 - was at 124%. The five years of memorial and austerity, so not only did they not save us from the crisis, not only did they destroy our economy, but they brought the humanitarian crisis in Greece. Greece, a European Union country, is experiencing the results of a war in a time of peace. In other words, thousands of families are undernourished and unable to pay the electricity, the rent, they have no medical care and cannot be moved to find work. The humanitarian crisis is the extreme expression of unemployment, disinvestment, internal devaluation five years now. The humanitarian crisis is the terrifying face of memoranda and austerity. This humanitarian crisis must be tackled with immediate and medium- and long-term measures! The fact is that in the Eurogroup on 20 February our partners accepted the existence of the humanitarian crisis for the first time and agreed to be included in the actions to be undertaken by the government. This is the first time that the humanitarian crisis in Greece has been recognized, as if there were nothing more ahead. In other words, our trading partners admit, indirectly but clearly, that the Memorandum policies have not solved the problems, but have exacerbated them and deepened them further. That is why we are bringing this first bill to a vote. It is a first step, a 'first small step', as we have said many times, and we have repeated it, in response to the humanitarian crisis. Poverty for us is not a fatal situation that is irreversible. It is not the fault of the person who experiences poverty, nor is it his responsibility to overthrow it. It is not an acceptable reality in our society, it is not just a field of philanthropic practices. Poverty is not confronted with horizontal subsidised policies. Poverty is seen in the context of an integrated and coordinated strategy for growth, by the entry of the unemployed into the labour market and by the expansion of this market with new jobs. Poverty is treated by providing income to households and by engaging all productive ages, through social inclusion and active participation, with unfeasible access to basic living goods, health, education and culture. Our people don't want mercy! Our people want work and quality of life, as they deserve it! In this sense, I will explain - because a lot has been heard in the committees - what action we have been doing since the first day we went to the Ministry: Firstly, we have been working on the revision and specialisation of the National Social Integration Strategy since the first month. A first framework for actions was tabled by the previous government and was approved by the European Commission at the last minute in December 2014, as it was a heresy, namely a precondition for the implementation and adoption of the ESRB programmes. We redesign the National Social Integration Strategy in detail so as to adapt to the priorities we have set as government. Special attention has been paid to the development of an integrated framework for dealing with the homelessness problem, based on fundamental social criteria. Secondly, we are also preparing the operational action plan for the creation of the permanent social inclusion mechanism. On the basis of the mechanism, the needs and benefits of the vulnerable groups of the country will be recorded, the actions being implemented, but also new procedures for responding immediately to the needs created in the meantime. The action plan is expected to be completed at the end of April and the permanent social inclusion mechanism will be in operation by the end of the year. Thirdly, as far as the minimum guaranteed income is concerned, I have repeatedly stated that the previous government started its pilot implementation in only thirteen municipalities from all over the country in November 2014. It is planned, until April 2015, after the adoption of a joint ministerial decision which has been drafted for one year. He signed in the 2014 budget about 24 million for his implementation and evaluation, as the pilot project itself anticipated. We implement this pilot project and commit to evaluating it, as it requires. A total of 8.3 million have been disbursed, of which 5.1 million have been disbursed. I repeat: we will do an accurate and scientific evaluation after it expires, so that we can understand its real potential for expansion throughout the country. We were asked by many opposition parties to extend it here and now, when it is known that its cost is 1.5 billion in the year and when the previous government did not intend to extend it, and that is why it did not sign a single euro in the 2015 state budget. Fourthly, we are energising the European Aid Fund for the Most deprived. The Operational Programme is an approved programme with a total budget of EUR 330 million over a seven-year period and registered for 2014, not used by the previous government and EUR 45 million for 2015. It includes benefits in kind, such as food, clothing, school articles, books, games, as well as accompanying support services, social care centres and activities for children. Benefits are unreasonable families with children, with priority for single - parent and multitude families. We are committed by the end of April to the joint ministerial decision on the CID's management and control plan. It is also expected that the first call for development partnerships will be launched. Fifthly, we are taking stock of all the benefits of actions that are being implemented by both the Ministry and other bodies in order to ensure their synergy and complementarity, that is, to use existing tools, but in a new, different way from the one that has been applied to date. No fragmentary implementation of measures of various programmes that run parallel and do not meet anywhere, but synergy, coordination of actions and their complementarity, absolute transparency at the disposal of national and European funds. With the programme commitments of Thessaloniki we have given our mark of what measures we intend to implement to support the people and families most affected by the crisis. You know them well, as the Greek people who elected us. It is 7 meters: It is for the electricity, for housing, for the feeding, it is for free medical care, for a free card for the public transport, for the thirteenth wage for the low-retired and for the equation of the oil drive with the heating oil. We have said many times, and now I repeat, that the bill we are bringing is nothing but the first step - because it concerns three of the seven measures - to give a breath to our people with these first three measures, so that there are no children who faint in school from hunger, that there are no houses with a cut-off current, that families can rent a house or be strengthened to stay in the house where they live and do not make them evict, so that infinite evictions are not carried out, but also to subsidise e-card feeding. We wanted this bill to be known in the world, in the world it is concerned with, because that is the biggest problem. Everyone needs to know and be informed that this is what concerns them. That is why we have not chosen to legislate either by legislative or by urgent procedure, because if there is anything urgent, it is this bill. For the first time twenty bodies, representing the beneficiaries of the measures we propose, took part in a large, open consultation in the House. I repeat: 20 bodies. Tell me when this has happened before. All eighteen in the 20s thought the bill was very positive. Dialogue was extremely important all days in Parliament and we made legislative improvements and changes, precisely because we heard all parties. We heard them carefully. We tried to compose opinions. We're not here, and we're not leaving the way we came.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u70	Madam Secretary, excuse me. I would ask the two former ministers, Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Loverdos, who are obviously having fun, to sit in their seats or, if they want to discuss, to go outside the Chamber. Keep going, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u71	Talk better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u72	Are you making an observation? Here's my hand, bore me with the charak!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, may I continue? With the articles in the bill we propose very specific and immediate measures for individuals and families living in extreme poverty: Free reconnection of electricity for households that have been cut off - I repeat free - and free supply of electricity up to a thousand two thousand kilowatts at the quarter, that is up to three hundred kilowatts per month, regardless of their debts, to a hundred fifty thousand families or individuals. Secondly, a rental allowance of thirty thousand families so that families can be housed in a new home or the contract of their already leased home. The rent is credited to the leaser, i.e. the owner, and is tax-free. Thirdly, a hundred and fifty-three thousand families and people for the supply of food and basic supplies from shops, using an electronic card, as well as other consumers, credited monthly. At the heart of our attention are children, single-parent families, luxurious families living in extreme poverty, multiples, disabled people and vulnerable groups. Finally, it is a first step so that the victims of the crisis understand that they are not alone in the crisis. We want cooperation with the solidarity movements, the social medicine that has been developed throughout this period, social grocery stores, social care centres and the integration of their experience into our policies. They are actions which the people themselves created to tackle the crisis, displaying huge stocks of imagination, courage, dignity and solidarity. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. The regions, municipalities, organisations of practical solidarity, accredited and informal, are our natural allies and our immediate partners. Our aim is to establish networks of solidarity at local and regional level, so that society can be collectively activated and participate in a new social model of solidarity, participation and collective organisation, an opponent of competition and the peculiarity imposed by neoliberal ideology in our society. Finally, I call on you to vote on the humanitarian crisis bill that the Greek people expect, to take this first step together with generosity, unanimously, with the consciousness that other immediate measures must be taken quickly, but above all to follow the mixture of policy that can remove the nightmares that our country lives in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister Fotou. We will now enter the circle of rapporteurs and special speakers. I would remind you that electronic recording - I will say it for the third time for those who have not heard it - will take place in the speech of the first two rapporteurs, namely Mr Zacharias from SYRIZA and Mr Panagiotopoulos from New Democracy. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that a request for a roll-call vote under Article 72(1)(a) has been submitted in advance. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure by seventeen Members of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn. The roll-call vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. As soon as it is completed, we will enter the second sitting and then the third one. There will therefore be no adjournment between the second and third sittings, so as to allow the floor in the morning for the Members' speeches to be concluded and then for the roll-call vote to be held. I call on the rapporteur for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Kostas Zacharia, to step in. The speaking time of the rapporteurs is 15 minutes under the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr. Zacharia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the first draft law tabled by the new left-wing government comes into the final phase of discussion in Parliament. It is also the first and urgent step in the implementation of the government's social salvation programme. For the first time in recent years, the miserable sequence of the most extreme neoliberal policies managed, intensified and reproduced poverty, inequality and exclusion in an environment of interdependence and corruption has been reversed. For the first time, the economic crisis is not cut off from its political content, it does not serve as an alibi, as a tool for legalising poverty. Its management is not the first priority. At the heart of the legislative provision are at last the subjects of the crisis, their people and their needs, people and not the numbers. Whereas, with our own measures, the results of the memorial political choices of previous years, we describe the term "humanist crisis" their cumulative impact on different aspects of people's life and everyday life, mainly because of the unemployment that leads to the collapse of the social fabric, the poorening of the most vulnerable groups of the population. Today the humanitarian crisis is emerging and intervenes in public speech and in public dialogue. The debate in Parliament, in fact, on the first legislative initiative of the new government, is of particular importance for research, understanding and dealing mainly with the causes and conditions that have led us to it. The debate has, in the meantime, crossed our country's borders on the initiative of an unprecedented international solidarity movement. It has been globally known that even a developed country can be subject to humanitarian crisis conditions. Previously, the consequences of major natural disasters, pandemics and especially local and generalised wars were described as such. He was September 1942 and the terrible winter was still ahead, when Dimitris Glinos, building the resistance to fascism and Nazism, addressing the people, analysed what is and what the National Liberation Front wants and wrote: “This is how hundreds and thousands of people died of hunger. We have become energetic in the streets, burying our dead piled in the curtains of our garbage. So we all became skeletons and our children atrocious, with beautiful legs and eyes erased. Thus, tuberculosis and atrophy and degeneration are planted in our breasts." It was war then. It was the world's biggest humanitarian crisis, a descendant of the Nazi occupation, which we must never forget. Today, however, the term takes another dimension. Humanitarian crisis, extreme poverty - poverty, if you like - is what is happening in our country, which leads to unreliable living and insulting the personality of people who cannot afford basic social goods and services: a dish of food, a safe home, access to medical care, electricity. Extreme poverty conditions are mainly experienced by the most vulnerable groups and even more so by children, who are driven, at large rates, to social margins and exclusion. According to EUROSTAT, Greece is in the worst position in Europe twenty-eight in terms of the risk of poverty. The reduction in earnings and incomes has increased the number of poor workers, while the country has the largest reduction in social expenditure in the Eurozone. An important dimension of poverty is also an increase in child poverty. In 2013 it was 28.8% of the child population. Indicatively, six out of ten students in sixty four schools in Athens face food insecurity. They have a parent without a job, while 17% of families don't work no parent. 11% of children are uninsured and 7% have lived without electricity for over a week in 2014, while 3% lived without electricity. In addition, according to a completely recent survey by a team of scientists from the University of Health Research Institute I present, involving more than twenty-three thousand teenagers aged 15 to nineteen, 11.3% of them had committed one or more suicide attempts and 11.6% had been removed for more than five days from their home. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Zacharias, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These consequences are called upon, not only to manage them through benefits, but our political commitment is to stop producing them. With this worthwhile starting point on the Left, this bill is on the way to neoliberal poverty choices, setting other priorities that are socially relevant in today's conditions too, a clear class criterion. It is precisely the first stumbling block in the battle against the throat of the humanitarian crisis. It is the practical response to the important solidarity movement that tried in the last memorandum period to defend the dignity of our people with similar actions. The provisions of the draft law include measures and targeted actions that the Greek people are waiting for today. All benefits are in kind rather than in material value. They are expected to act in synergy with any other social programmes and actions that are being implemented, creating an interactive multiformal network, at a transitional stage in which the state must guarantee basic goods and services. We therefore intervene with urgency and provide people who live in extreme poverty, families with children, single-parent families, unemployed and long-term unemployed, directly, here and now, in a relieving manner, access to basic social goods, such as free supply of adequate electricity and free reconnection, supplementing PPC's social invoice arrangements and facing the exclusion from the inability to join this social tariff, due to debts. An additional grant is provided for the rental to thirty thousand families, mainly single-parent or with minor children, who face the threat of eviction every day, the threat to lose safe housing and be added to the long list of the newly-poor ones. There is also provision for subsidising and facilitating access to a decent and adequate market of food products, without a charitable nature, with the aim of destabilising poverty and the free choice of food products that they need. These interventions and regulations are, as we have said again, the first step and not a global and integrated social policy plan, which is a cornerstone for the Left. It is a first step of urgent intervention, which will be supplemented and enriched every day. But it must be supplemented immediately with measures ensuring equal, reliable and universal access to medical care for all the people of the country, without exceptions and bureaucratic obstacles. We need to move on immediately to extinguish all the Memorandum plans, interventions and mechanisms and people who have brought public health into a state of operational collapse. The government at this difficult juncture is mixed with the programme and commitments, with itself. It universally accounts for citizens who support their hopes of exiting the memoranda and exiting their policies, for human, devout life with democracy and social justice. On the basis of the consolidation of social justice, the draft law includes a set of provisions on the organisation of government and governmental bodies, focusing on addressing and combating corruption. In fact, this political gesture of the government in today's first draft law stipulates that its top political commitment to absolute and non-negotiable transparency in public life is being implemented. For the first time, the government's political will to investigate in depth and conflict at all levels of the public and private spheres with corrupt environments and faces, as well as the networks of their own. The previous institutions have been tried and failed, not because they did not respond to the natural persons who manage services, but because there was no strong political will against corruption. Corruption extends to known and unknown aspects of public services, to the system of contracts and commissions, to authorisations and financing of the media, to the management of public property, to the control of the financial system, to the use and flows of Community subsidies, to the smuggling of oil, tobacco and alcohol, to tax evasion, to discrimination, preferences and 'facilitation', to extensive money laundering recorded and blackmailing citizens every day. It needs to be immediately planned and coordinated by the anti-fraud, control and fight against corruption. This political project, however, cannot be implemented through fragmented and multi-level services, but through a step towards unifying them into a body aimed at joint coordination and supervision of their activities, but without prejudice to their independence. The establishment of a State Secretary for Corruption matters shall be complemented by a General Secretariat and an institution shall be established with powers of supervision, control, control and control. We hope that the new agency, headed by the Minister of State, will respond to the needs of coordinating the control mechanisms and will also bring economic benefits and savings. Now, the General Secretariat to assist the work of the Governing Council for Economic Policy is also set up under the law and the number of posted officials is drastically restricted, with the aim of cooperating with ministers, particularly with civil servants who are already serving to stop this situation with the armies of external consultants. The number of Secretarys-General and several and various Secretarys-General shall be limited and the institution of the Deputy Secretary-General shall be introduced. These regulations establish a better and more rational organization of government and government bodies, drastically reducing the number of officials to those who are needed for the operation and assistance of government work. From the previous figure of forty-five Ministries we move into a new shape with a total of thirty-seven Ministers and Deputy Ministers and a thousand hundred and seventy-three post-mortem and seconded officials, we live in five hundred fifty-four. Without degrading the quality of government work, tens of millions are saved to provide for goods and services to the citizens. In the draft law, there are also provisions governing urgent matters which require immediate legislative intervention. Thus, there is a prolongation of the procedures for the transfer of pupils to date, which must be ensured unnecessarily, and it should be noted that until now only four regional units throughout the country have completed the new competitions. The regions should therefore step up their efforts. There are provisions for extending for one year the medical treatment of the unemployed and underemployed by five professional groups to the whole range of professions that remain uninsured and confirm the universality of the humanitarian crisis. They concern long-term unemployed and insured IKA, professionals and microprofessionals, which are mainly affected by the crisis and whose shops are closed and cannot fulfil their obligations towards the insurance funds. They also concern young scientists who are mainly in their first steps, but also workers from the wider urban fabric of the Attica region, such as the workers in Scaramaga, Elefsina, the shipbuilding zone of Perama, who in the last two years have not put up a single sign. Finally, they also concern older homosexuals who remain helpless. I'm sure only the universal medical coverage of uninsured people will give a definitive solution to the problem. However, the first samples of writing, such as the government's provision for extending the coverage of particularly affected workers, promote positive solutions. We are also waiting for the legislative initiatives already announced by the relevant ministries. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the response to the humanitarian crisis, extreme poverty, the response to people's needs, the simple but functional and effective governmental shape and instruments, transparency in public life and the fight against corruption are the priorities of the government. They are performed on another reason and ethos and I hope they will be completed soon. We look at the admonitions and voices of the past, mainly from accountable political representatives of the governments of the Memorandum, who, with an excess of nerve, despise the first governmental steps. We are standing in the struggle of the government, but movements and citizens can and must pull the government out of the sleeve and actively remind people's problems and demands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will be done in a minute. We, the SYRIZA Members, are standing in the government's fight to salvage the legends of the social state left by submissive governments and to deal with the urgent social problems, even in a firefighting manner. For all these reasons, I believe that the vote and the strong support from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group of today's legislative initiative is necessary, in order to develop further, in a more radical perspective, that social policy, which will always answer human-focusedly every kind of question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr Zacharia, and the historical reference to EAM. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u77	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u78	I beg your pardon, Mr Panayotopoulos, but with your permission, Mr Voutsis has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement on behalf of the Government. Even shortly before this process began, the objections and inappropriate objections for today's debate and the forthcoming vote on this bill continued through statements by international actors and representatives of the institutions. In our view, it is clear that there is no infringement of the agreement of 20 February. The promotion of the government's legislative initiatives, by tabling bills or by posting bills, which have been made today and which will become tomorrow, is the core of the promotion of reforms, for which we have jointly committed ourselves. We say directly that the Minister's suggestion is the practical government position on unfounded objections, and indeed on a bill concerning the humanitarian crisis in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Minister. It goes without saying that legislation is not blackmailed. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not avoid the temptation to make two - three positions on the procedure already in place since the first day of the new parliamentary term. A foreigner, wiser than me, had once said: "If it's not broken, don't look to fix it." Here, just now and for the first time, I think, in parliamentary time - an investigator - the parliamentary term of office begins with reading legislative improvements from part of the government. Because, the Minister responsible, Mrs Fotou, who preceded the Stepma, first read some of the legislative improvements and then entered into his development. I do not think that this has happened before, that the parliamentary term should begin with legislative improvements. What did we have here? We were dealing with a procedure that was also operational, and the House was respecting and preparing, but also based on the Rules of Procedure and, in particular, Article 64(2). If you notice this article, Madam President, it has been amended in 2009, and Article 95(2), which you invoke, was amended in 2001. One could therefore argue that the later provision of a rule prevails over the earlier one and that we should remain in Article 95(2), namely the way we have been following up to today in the debate in plenary, which was, of course, parliamentary practice. At my first reading, this new procedure has had the following results: firstly, it has been weakened - not to say it has been abolished - de facto the rapporteur of the majority Parliament - the noble Mr Zacharias will not tell you, I say to you - when he comes to be posted after the Minister. Secondly, there is a question of the circle of positions of parliamentary representatives, who, as you know, are placed circularly after a Minister. Thirdly, there is also a question as to the initial positions of other ministers participating in the draft law in question. For example, why not talk to the relevant Minister of State, Mr Nicoludis? Who tells us that the Minister for the Interior - who is also present and has just read his statement - cannot be placed or when he is placed - or rather chooses not to be placed - make a concession here to us Members by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure? Who can say that by making this concession exercises a right, which is at its discretion? If he wants to talk, if he doesn't want to talk. What is being introduced here, therefore, in the new process, except for new ones, raises many issues on which a solution must be found. Madam President, this is the parliament. The role of the Member is to be played. This is not primarily a field for the promotion of government positions. It is primarily a matter of hearing Members from the members of the Government who contribute to a debate with their comments and positions. Then come everything else. Ultimately, the first reason at the bottom - the ministers should not have as members of the executive power, but the Members of Parliament as exercisers of the legislative procedure. The ministers shall be next and seated. I believe that this is the necessary and proper parliamentary procedure. Instead of introducing, I enter the debate of the bill being passed. So we are discussing this bill at a rather contradictory juncture, as time is pressing, running too quickly and I would say, it is exhausted, as liquidity in the state funds, in the banking system and in the real economy. We, in difficult circumstances in the course of a negotiation which I dare say is being conducted at a more difficult starting point, are now being called upon to vote on the first bill on direct measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, on the organisation of the government, etc. In the extensive debate which has actually taken place in the committees, we have made clear our objections, our objections, in principle, to its legislative structure. Here we are dealing with three plus one, I would say articles - the three of the first chapter, one of the third - on the measures of the humanitarian crisis and twenty-two articles on the organisation of the government, etc. We have therefore pointed out to you in the Committees that the main volume of the provisions of the bill - those introduced in the second chapter - regulate matters that are awkward and I dare say, regardless of the humanitarian crisis and any measure to relieve households with low incomes. We have told you that extreme poverty has nothing to do with the structure of governmental bodies. And when you told us that the General Secretariat for the Fight against Corruption is relevant to the humanitarian crisis and to its measures, we opposed you that, with that logic, and a tax bill could be relevant to dealing with the crisis, since it generates revenue for the state that could be made available to social benefits, etc. So we appreciate that this view is simply an excuse and does not have a reasonable basis. We finally claimed that rational legislative practice and operation required that the second chapter should be voted on, even in a separate bill. You didn't accept it, but we think that's the right thing to do. As is right, it is not appropriate to table amendments which are irrelevant to each bill's regulation. We got some, well, we haven't seen them. We will be in the debate tomorrow on the articles and amendments. In any case, in order to get to the point of the matter as well, our main position is that we are voting in favour of the principle, because we support all measures which relieve households with low incomes, as well as vulnerable social groups. And how could we do differently, when measures have already been implemented, which have also been taken by previous governments instigated by social protection policies? Such are the social tariffs of PPC and HYDAP, social grocery stores, aggregations for the most deprived through the networks of municipalities and church, access to public hospitals, and even this protection of the first home. These all constitute a social 'private' which is active in poverty-sharing structures, with funding from the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund totalling about EUR 1 billion for the beginning of the new programming period, and in addition the additional EUR 330 million from the European Neighbourhood Assistance Fund has already been committed. They have been committed, indeed they have not been channelled, but we hope and would like it to be done in the next few months by you, Minister. How, then, could we do differently, when the previous government made available some EUR 450 million last year to some seven hundred thousands of families as a social dividend and how could we do differently, when the big reform of the minimum guaranteed income programme is already institutionalised and in operation for which we have said so much about it? If you support and develop this programme in its application throughout the country - it is not a simple exercise, the main problem is the financial problem, but I think that solutions can be found there - the minimum guaranteed income could be the key policy pillar for an overall - and I stress it with emphasis - to tackle poverty. The three measures for the free supply of electricity, the rental allowance and the feeding subsidy of the first chapter of this chapter are well introduced. The question, however, of the precise definition of the beneficiaries that will determine the exact cost of the measures and the scope of their application - as the General Accounting Office of the State cannot accurately assess the expenditure and refers to an estimate by the Ministry of Labour - at the total cost of EUR 200 million that you prefer, must be resolved as soon as possible by adopting a relevant joint ministerial decision. It's up to you. We hope that you will proceed quickly, because if you do not do so there will be many problems in its implementation. The position expressed by institutions, international actors, Brussels group - you choose - I think it is one of these problems in the implementation that is apparent in the horizon. We have told you in committee too. He wants more specific numbers so he can be accepted throughout his area. At present, we are seeing several ambiguities, not so creative. For example, as regards the allowance under Article 3, the original provision was to cover three hundred thousand families. The Minister was re-evaluated for a hundred and fifty so many - in committee he had spoken of a hundred seventy thousand - with an estimated cost of 137,7 million for nine months, namely 15,3 million a month. I divide this by the hundreds of seventy thousand - I imagine I have to do it with the hundreds of fifty-three thousand, but I did not get my calculator together - and it was EUR 90 a month or EUR 3 per family per day. That's the size class. It's not much, it's something. I say that to understand the size class of the feeding allowance. But I have something else to say. When the Minister of Finance went to the Eurogroup, he had talked about covering three hundred thousand families. So, or the cost, as you can see, for three hundred thousand families, should be much larger or the allowance should be much smaller or the Minister of Finance invoked wrong evidence. These are the ambiguities which I think should be corrected in the course. On the second chapter, we have many serious objections to what is laid down for the organisation of the government and the governmental bodies. We have also made them in committee. We were very clear about the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption. This is a government body with a distinct and obvious political time with its direct place with the relevant Minister and therefore with the Office of the Prime Minister. So when the prosecuting of a higher grade, such as the Prosecutor of Economic Crimes or the Prosecutor of Corruption Crimes, is predicted to incorporate their action in the design and actions of a governmental body, then you understand that for us there is, immediately, a serious question of violation of the constitutional principle of separation of powers and, of course, the principle of independence of judicial authorities is also mistaken. The recasting of Article 10 by the Minister is, of course, in the right direction. There may be no question of an objection of anti-constitutionality anymore, but this is not enough to remove our concerns about political manipulation and public prosecutors, among others. This is because, on the one hand, the newly established General Secretariat is located at the narrow core of government structures, on the other, because, with the other, the General Secretariat - in other words - is transformed - into an over-concentration, over-controlling and over-supervisory mechanism for all the control structures of the public administration as well as the College of Public Administration Inspectors, as well as the College of Public Work Inspectors and instituting the service activities of the OSH, the Health Inspectors, the Economic Police Directorate and the Internal Audit Units of the Ministries under the absolute control of a government structure. Ultimately, the new body fails to fulfil the safeguards of institutional and operational independence that the top anti-corruption authority of the country should enjoy, as was done with the abolished institution of the Special Coordinator for the Fight against Corruption. With regard to the other provisions on the organisation of the Government, etc., our main criticism lies in the fact that additional structures of government and administrative action are being created here - I am referring to the General Secretariat of the Governing Council of Economic Policy and the Institution of the Deputy Secretary-General - which: firstly, add government pluralism and administrative stiffness. Secondly, they pose a risk of overlapping responsibilities, making it difficult for the government to produce its work. Thirdly, they are charged with the public sector by establishing another public administration level, the Deputy Secretary-General. Fourthly, they cancel the ongoing administrative reform. It is likely that there will also be an accessibility with the ratings with the institutions. Fifthly, they grow instead of getting short or making the state more flexible. Despite the opposing announcements, the staffing of these bodies adds bureaucracy and also has some fragrance of "days", "rules" arrangements, after increasing, instead of reducing the positions of seconded officials at the offices of Ministers, Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys. This spirit of "orgaining" of friends finds its peak in this bill with the introduction of the volunteer special adviser at the political offices of the Prime Minister, the Vice-Presidents of the Government and the Government Ministers. What do we have here now? Is this a perception of the functioning of the Prime Minister's Office as a NGOs with volunteers? I don't think that's the case. And I don't think so, because this is where volunteer counselors are scheduled to take a journey. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Madam President, with your tolerance. So volunteer counsellors are expected to be on their way. They are therefore paid volunteers and, indeed, uninsured paid volunteers. I do not know, in fact, whether anyone in the government has considered what the Prime Minister's office means to provide insecure work to advisers and what roads this could be open to addressing these issues to the rest of the country's employers. Has anyone considered it? There's the minister in charge here. I think you should think about that, Minister. There is no institutional framework for volunteering here. So that's what this is about. I think that the explanations should also be given here. Ladies and gentlemen, as a point of order, I would like to say that for the provisions of Chapter 3 and the amendments we will be voting on tomorrow. This bill, at least the part of its humanitarian crisis, is, as I have said, three measures, plus one measures to deal with poverty, extreme poverty in the relevant ministry, but without even specifying extreme poverty. It is, therefore, a draft law, in principle, useful in terms of those provisions, but incomplete. The problem will be dealt with more effectively if there is a comprehensive, structured, integrated plan. The Ministry has tools to do this at its disposal, it has the National Social Integration Strategy, it has a Green Paper on social inclusion. It is at your disposal, Minister, but even if you do not adopt them as they are, you could use them as a basis for planning an integrated policy and I would advise you to do so. Time is running, needs are growing, you need to move quickly and we will be here to support the right ones and highlight the mistakes differentiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Panagiotopoulos. Mr President, on the four-minute introduction to the procedure, I would just like, in order to be fully aware of this House and the citizens, to tell you that it is not new to apply Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, in the previous period several times in the committees and the Ministers of Government in which you participated agreed to apply the Rules of Procedure. In relation to the fact that in 2009 Article 64 was amended, but not Article 95, it is understood that it strengthens the reasons why a provision must be applied which no one has attempted to amend. I would like to inform you that the process of listing has ended. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros, special speaker of the Golden Dawn
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin to say the positions and views of the Golden Dawn for this bill, I too can only comment on two - three issues raised by the rapporteur of the New Democracy. He was talking about the uninterrupted functioning of parliamentarians, at the same time as he and many other Members of the previous coup d'état, but also of counter-population in an indirect or direct way, indulging and in any way confusing the country's third political power. You have all heard all of you a moment ago when the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn spoke of the last ones - for these are vile excuses - according to which the temporarily imprisoned Members and the Chief of the Golden Dawn cannot come to this plenary. The excuse of the Prosecutor of the Korydalos Prison is that it is for discussion and not for vote. Obviously, he was also ironing out the Members of this Parliament, but also the institutions of this Parliament, as was your person, Madam President. And with new paper - a confirmation from the House that there will also be a vote, ironically, with an answer written with a pen, from a distance, they have moved the negative new Prosecutor's suggestion to the incarcerated MPs. That is not to say the New Democracy rapporteur on the uninterrupted functioning of Members. He spoke a little later on to the rapporteur of the New Democracy and referred to corruption, saying that with some of the provisions and articles in the second chapter we may have political interference with the public prosecutors. It sounds ridiculous, at best, to talk to those who have literally humiliated the Constitution, the institutions, everything. He could well turn to his left and see the protagonist of all these trespassing circuits - there is at the moment - to understand what is happening and not to smuggle about democracy, freedom and I know nothing else. Now, for this draft law, we read: 'Consolidations on direct measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, on the organisation of the Government and Government bodies and other provisions'. Reading this proposal and recalling SYRIZA's election announcements and not only, in particular, what he said in the last two and a half years when he was in Census, he would imagine that some barbaric measures would come so that the Greek people, those who have the greatest problem, this huge crisis that everyone is experiencing on a personal level, family, professional and go by saying. Of the thirty-one articles in this bill, only five have to do with relief, in an indirect or immediate way, of everything that is needed. Probably not all of them, because there are changes in numbers. From three hundred thousand to thirty thousand families, which will have free electricity, will have food, will have the opportunity to take their children to school, etc. But, even so, it is of interest and that is why we will be voting in favour of these articles. From there on, there are terrible ambiguities, anointings. For example, Article 5 of the first chapter leaves ministerial decisions which will lead to specificity of everything that should and will benefit from these favourable regulations - provisions. We see a number of things in chapter two, which has to do with administration for most of the measures, with changes, with issues that are irrelevant to the humanitarian crisis. We heard the SYRIZA's rapporteur say that the previous governments had no will. So the problem is if there is will and will, not to change some general secretaries, bring in others, set up new Secretary-General, etc. This is completely irrelevant to the demand for will, because if you have a will with the means you have and not by constantly changing the wrapping, but by leaving the same content, you can do very positive and very good things. We read what you say about the humanitarian crisis. SYRIZA's rapporteur focused on the fact that the main, almost the exclusive, cause of the humanitarian crisis, of people under extreme poverty, are the memorials, implementing laws and everything that the PASOK and the New Democracy co-governments have passed over the last three years. Since the cause is the memorials, why are you in a completely opposite direction to what you were saying about the memorialities and all the others who were moving in the antimony theory? You are not saying a word about the abolition of the memoranda, as you have always been saying. You are not saying anything about the auditing of the debt, as you were electorally making, although the auditing of the debt is the saving of our country, because that is where we will be able to learn everything, which is what part of the debt is illegal and should be deleted. In the course you changed that. You said it's not the biggest part of the debt, it's 30%. Now you are not even talking about debt write-offs at all in your own internal discussions. When we are on red alert, the about fifty days of the new government are too many, so that there are no fundamental bills in this House to solve corruption issues. But, as we have said before, the man of corruption is in here. It is not out where many people say that we need to take measures, etc. Nor do you, as was the case yesterday, call it when Minister Valavani in committee spoke of few masters. And when a MP of the former co-government said "name", he could not name those who oppress the Greek people, who are few families and on the fingers of both hands are severely tempered. They are the ones who have taken all the jobs - there are constantly data coming out, and you are telling others - such as the ESDP programmes and subsidies. They have taken the streets, tolls, ports and anything that can bring income to the country, to the state, to the citizens and leave nothing to everyone else. You have not talked at all about the other parameter of the humanitarian crisis. Yes, one is the memorials, which are totally anti-developmental, ethnic, lethal. But the solution comes, not only from the audit of the debt, the complaint of the memoranda and the deletion of the majority of the debt, which will prove to be illegal - as many parties have said - but which have now stopped and are not saying so at all - but also through concrete real development measures. In particular, these measures are measures to the primary sector, to the small and medium-sized enterprises of this country, whether they are farmers or farmers or micro-enterprises, or crafters or anything else, because they have always been for Greece, but also for every country in the world, the pillars of the real economy and not the supposed investors, since no one can give a definition of what the investor is. In fact, the previous government had reached the point of considering and saying "investors" all these owners of the big funds, who come and take red loans against a lens billboard and then they're after you until they take everything away from you. And they thought they were investors. No, they're not investors. All these people are working on the break-up of our country. All they care about is getting as many profits as possible for their personal accounts and for nothing else, and of course they have nothing to do with all the small and medium-sized ones, who - I repeat - were, constituted and will be the backbone of each country's economy. Only with real growth can there be a stir of the humanitarian crisis, people will be able to have money, oil to warm up in the winter, send their children right and decently to school, so that they can eat something and not faint, can hire someone who - as is now the case - does not have the opportunity to pay him. Also, people will be able to pay their contributions, as - as we all see - contributions are increasingly falling towards the insurance funds, because unemployment is constantly rising by scorning. There could be too much to stop the humanitarian crisis, but you are still in the same wrong pattern of the previous ones. You have baptized the Memorandum of Institutions, you have baptized the Troika somehow. Instead of seeing them in the Ministries, they now go to your partners in the great hotels in Athens, in secret, to show them the results. The relevant minister, the Minister of Finance, as took place yesterday at the meeting on the occasion of the new President and CEO at TIADE, Mr Anastassakis, and said that the revenue from the privatizations would go for the repayment of the debt, while Ms Valavani said 'no, they would go for social policy and help those who are unpaid'. We are constantly seeing bilingualism, and whatever you do, with the agreement you have signed and the four-month extension of the memorandum - because it is, anyway, about baptism - four months later, lies will end in any way and it will seem who is right and who is wrong. The first thing you said in Parliament was that nothing will happen again by legislative act. You've signed an agreement since February 20th. You almost hide it. Nobody knows the details. You're not bringing her to the House. You're always saying you're going to bring her up for discussion. We have 17 March, a month has passed and waited for Parliament, the Greek citizens are waiting to hear what you have to say on this. Unfortunately, we repeat, you are moving on a very wrong path, on a very different road than you yourself were saying, your own executives, people who are now in ministerial positions, who were with a completely different philosophy. We reiterate that the Golden Dawn, as during the previous coup d'état, voted positively on everything that had to do with the help, with solidarity, with the support of the undignified, so it will now support the articles relating to the humanitarian crisis. We are certainly not going to vote on articles such as Article 5, which leaves the details of these earlier important articles in future. We cannot vote on articles on the creation of new stamps, new posts, which are costing several million euros. We cannot vote for amendments that you are bringing - which have nothing to do with it immediately, unless that is how you think of dealing with the humanitarian crisis - to vote for a budget of EUR 7 million for the feeding of irregular immigrants, as you want to tell them. At the same time, making the division, 6 euros per day the feeding for the irregular immigrant comes out, while the measures you have brought for the Greeks come out 3 euros a day for the feeding of the Greek, which the memorials have broken up - and not just - and they go out and say. We're on. We'll be in the front line of the race. Golden Dawn has shown the way - whether you like it or not - to deal with the humanitarian crisis, when for as long as we had the state subsidy we turned it into piles. Tens of thousands of our fellow citizens constantly took not just a portion of food, but we gave bags to feed their family for days whole and over and over and over. You could well - and we have said in committee - have brought an article that part of the party financing of all parties is a lot of euros, it could go to relieve our fellow citizens, who are in any way affected. You could do too much. We repeat that - and we hope you will deny us - you are moving in a completely wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you to the rapporteur of the People's League - Golden Dawn. I would like to inform you that the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Valavani, also present, signed by other members of the Ministerial Council, a draft law entitled 'Regulatory arrangements for the relaunch of the economy'. I shall read to you the accompanying document, which explains why the government is proposing to introduce this draft law in accordance with the urgency procedure: ‘The Government has submitted the draft law: ‘Agreements on the reopening of the economy’, proposing rules, on the one hand, for the regulation of late payment to tax administration, Chapter A, on the other hand, on insurance matters of an urgent nature, Chapter B. The adoption of this bill is urgent, within the meaning of Article 74(2) of the Constitution, because, by subjecting the debtors to the beneficial provisions of the new law, they are expected to incur direct public revenues to the State funds and thus to increase the liquidity of the country. In view of this, the above draft law, due to its extremely serious and urgent nature, should be passed directly and please be introduced and discussed in the specific procedure provided for in Articles 74(2) and 76(4) of the Constitution and in Rule 109 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.’ At first glance - and I will see it in particular - the bill comes under the co-responsibility of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs. I would remind you that the committees will decide on the issue raised, namely the proposal to introduce the draft legislation in urgent procedure. In any case, the bill will be referred for a meeting in the co-legislative committees on Thursday, i.e. following the completion of the procedure at present. The reason is the special speaker of the river, Mr. Antigone Lyberakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is trying to tackle a number of critical social problems created by the crisis. This is the front in his title and he appears to be a sort of flagship of social policy. Unfortunately - for us, at least - in the way we read it - it is a pretext, that is to say, an effort that is both superficial and shallow and totally inconsistent with the scale of the problems it faces. In the face of the consequences of extreme poverty, only five to thirty-seven articles are devoted - if I measured correctly afterwards, with the news that came - and perhaps only a few, perhaps two, from the number of amendments. I'm not even sure how many are all of them. The worst is, however, that a terrible disharmony, a terrible imbalance of balance, is introduced between the rhetorical intensity of the humanitarian crisis on the one hand and the scale of political intervention on the other. I can tell you this in simpler words, saying, if the humanitarian crisis in a country can be dealt with with with resources corresponding to 0.1% of its Gross Domestic Product - and especially if it is a country that has lost 1/4 of its Gross Domestic Product in recent years - it means or that the country is swimming in money and has so much GDP that 0.1% is enough to cope with extreme poverty or that the phenomenon we are talking about is not a humanitarian crisis or that it is a humanitarian crisis, but intervention is disproportionately small, marginalised and cannot deal with it. I could say that this bill confuses the concept of the humanitarian crisis - which has a very specific content in the international debate and we see in international news at night what a humanitarian crisis means, as a rule on other continents - with the abrupt reduction of income, which is what happened in Greece, a reduction of income that was rapid, was sharp, was dramatic, was on average 25%. In fact, confusing these two concepts, it creates a vague pool of beneficiaries, because perhaps the most important problem is that it speaks in the name of the people in extreme poverty and humanitarian crisis, but nowhere determines which criteria one belongs to this category. So there is a very generous, large pool of unscrupulous people waiting to see themselves in these measures, and what it actually does is that it uses a few resources to deal with a group that it has created, because it could not identify the real beneficiaries and - even worse - ambiguity is fuelled by this reference to ministerial decisions of the main element of social policy, which are the criteria, the modes of measurement, the mechanisms. Unfortunately, the spirit and the letter of the bill show that there is a great confusion about what social policy is. To remind you, then, social policy is the inappropriate application of immaterial rules and criteria that have been agreed beforehand. In order to support social support for people who find themselves in great difficulty to be a social right rather than a customer concession, we must observe unreasonable rules, which are known from the outset, otherwise, we have a social policy of the Evita Peron type. What did Evita Peron do? She was putting on her best, bringing in the central bank commander next to a chest with money and accepting the poor of the country. Everyone was telling her his bitter story, his drama, and depending on how he felt, "Take so much", he closed the eye to the central banker, opened the bag and gave the money. I have to tell you that before, in Byzantine times, someone didn't even need to tell his bitter story. He could go to the great religious feasts, where the emperor was passing on his horse, which, by far, threw coins right and left, and, in general, would be there to collect them. Fortunately since then the meaning of social policy has changed both in Europe and throughout the world. Social policy means using criteria that have been set beforehand. Unfortunately, it seems that the government cannot understand that. In the measures to combat the extreme poverty proposed there is no stress to be included in a coordinated plan. I must say that I was very comforted by the intervention of the Minister a moment ago, who said orally that 'we will gather knowledge, record, combine, associate, try'. All this is very useful and I am very pleased to hear it, because I understand that not all the proposals made by the committees and by the bodies have gone completely unnecessarily. They must, however, be reflected in both the letter and the spirit of the legislation. Small parentheses: I do not understand the replacement of the term "households" with "persons and families". Throughout Europe and the world the social unit is the household, in the sense of people living in the same home voluntarily and sharing, putting together the resources they have to live together. Families are much wider, they may live in many homes, in many cities, in many countries. Not all households are in the narrow sense. Who's gonna decide who's family and who's not, in the finale? I am sorry you retreated from the term 'households' and went to the term 'persons and families'. The parentheses are closed. The big problem is there's no hierarchy and targeting. And if there is no hierarchy and targeting and clear criteria, the door opens well, to provide another customer allowance, which we are absent and we would very much like not to see. In fact, when the bill says "will make a ministerial decision that determines the criteria", it is like asking the House for a white cheque, "I don't know who and how to give it, but I will find out, I will decide in the meantime to approve it." This is not the best way to deal with social policy issues. We, the Potami, support that extreme poverty is a structural social problem and that to tackle it, a permanent and structural solution is needed. They don't need fireworks. What our country really needs is to finally build, with a great deal of delay in relation to our other European partners, a substantial social security fabric and a first step would be the introduction of a well-designed minimum guaranteed income. Unfortunately, the draft law is characterised by four ‘without’. It is a draft law without criteria, it is a draft law without enforcement structures, it is a draft law without hierarchy and priorities, and, finally, it is a draft law without evaluation - in writing, another verbal one. In this draft law we cannot vote for the river. Would it be easy, for reasons of communication management, to say: 'Social sensitivity'? And we in." We would be comforted by the idea that, all right, within many who will definitely take it and some will be really poor, and at the end of the writing, we are talking about an intervention which, as badly targeted as it is, will not throw out the country's finances. After all, we, Potami, have said that we support them and have no reason to have a single, rigid line for the legislation that comes. Nevertheless, I would like to give you the reasons why we in this first bill on social policy - which we consider to be not only necessary, but also a tool of not only social welfare but also of economic development - for why, therefore, we cannot vote for this bill. The first reason why we cannot vote for this is because we believe that the use of social policy must finally be stopped in order to do other things, stop the closure of the eye and hypocrisy in this regard. It is also used in our country in the past to show social sensitivity as an alibi for possible customer distribution without agreed and clear criteria. That's why our criteria care. The second reason is that we do not want to give green light to anachronism. We cannot accept that a mechanism for the distribution of these few and important resources will be the Church or other opaque mechanisms that will set their own criteria, which one can suspect are not exactly the same as the state's criteria. The third reason is because there is no explicit assurance that those who benefit from these benefits will be poorer than those who pay taxes to create these benefits. At every time, it is very important to ensure, in times of crisis and terrible tax bleeding, that it is even more important.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u86	Have you read the bill, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u87	Finally, we regret the dual use of the invoicing of extreme poverty and the humanitarian crisis. There is an invoicing at the international audience, where the situation of the extreme poor is being settled - but we cannot identify who they are, and therefore not how many - and hopefully that the humanism of Europeans will be mobilised and the conditions for our country's borrowing will be reduced. This is a misuse of the poor of a country. Inside, as there is no guarantee that money and services will go to those who really have the greatest need - and not to some who think they need more than us or our friends - there is a current of possible neoliberal management or even a simple deposit of loyal social sensitivity that the government might want to use very soon when it starts to govern. We, in Potami, have no reason to participate in this group therapy, because we in Potami believe sincerely in social policy and have very detailed and complete proposals to tackle extreme poverty. In conclusion, if we were to vote in favour of the principle, it would mean that we believe that we are doing our duty as parliamentarians and MPs to the poor of this country. I fear that this bill does not serve the poor people of this country. The worst of all is that, by promoting these fragmentary measures - and it would have no effect on them being fragmentary, if they were part of a more comprehensive design, which we somewhat orally fineen it, in writing we do not read it - can be used at the end - finally to prevent the biggest of the major reforms that our country needs, the reform of social policy, the axis of a safety web and, firstly, the tool of a proper and well-designed minimum guaranteed income. To conclude, I would like to say that we also have various comments on the issues of the articles on combating corruption, particularly with regard to the division of a mandate line for the audit bodies, but also the way in which controls are implemented with the authorisations provided for in Article 13. We also have some objections to the multi-headed coordination of the government by introducing another coordinating general secretariat, this step by the Deputy Secretary-General and the Voluntary Counsellors, which are not all the objections that ultimately colour our refusal to vote in favour. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to close with a very small, out-of- text reminder. I would very much like us all to think that the possibility of an accident in our relations with the European partners will first and foremost be paid by the poorest and poorest in this society. I would therefore like to see, with very great reflection and measured steps to remember that the institutions in the first stabilisation programme - to use the new terminology - in October 2010 had as a necessary complement to everything else that was done on the budgetary field, the creation of a more permanent mechanism. It is a great pity five years later, rather than graduating from this process, to load the poorest and the poorest of the inability to resolve important issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Diamanto Manolakos. I would like to make it clear that the Rules of Procedure have this separation of rapporteurs and specialist speakers, but because, equally, a representative from each party is placed in the first place and I suggest that we talk about the articles as a whole. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u89	Thank you. The bill you're claiming to face the humanitarian crisis has all those elements of hypocrisy in conjunction with advertising fraud. Hypocrisy because the policies of the European Union and of the urban governments give birth to poverty and impoverishment in large percentages of popular masses. Poverty is the result of the exploitive system that we live in. There was poverty and in times of economic growth, which reached 20% to 25% of the population. So it is inherent in capitalist barbarism and is exacerbated by the capitalist economic crisis. It permanently focuses on the capitalist European Union, even in strong economic countries, such as Germany. But also in the United States one in three Americans - according to the Federal Census Office - that is, about a hundred million people, fell below the poverty line between 2009 and 2011. Also, many diseases cause malnutrition, which even leads to loss of life. Of course, these are not counted. This is capitalism and its children: poverty, unemployment, misery, barbaricity, for people who produce wealth, but who do not fruit him, and at the same time unsatisfactory profits are guaranteed in monopolies with the bourgeois state. Only in the former socialist countries had work, free health, education, welfare, sport, culture, and hunger was an unknown word. That's all, to remember. So such bills like this do not address, do not eliminate its poverty and its consequences. On the contrary, they perpetuate her after they leave her unarmed the causes. Moreover, the bazaars between the Greek Government and its partners for the implementation of the anti-grass agreement of 20 February will pave the way for new measures against the people. Alongside these anti-grassroots processes within the country, the climate is cultivated not only to suspend crumbs for the extreme poverty that you had promised beforehand, but also to impose new tough measures. Furthermore, the statement that the Minister had to make a moment ago is only credentials that he is in the context of the memorandum and is not a unilateral action. That's how you'll move every time. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] It is still this bill of advertising fraud, because it is not really dealing with the effects of absolute impoverishment either. It does not relieve impoverished people, but an infinite number of them. And you say, "Let the people wait." What's he waiting for? The crumbs that you minimized in comparison to the ones of the Thessaloniki program? The three measures you have announced are 23% of them in Thessaloniki. At the same time, you want to cover the fact that they will continue to poorly poorly, since the anti-grass framework of the memorandum and the directions of the European Union today's coexistence commits itself to complying with it through the recent agreement signed with the troika, apologies, the institutions. The intentional leaks that recently provide that the technical steps identify a budget gap of 2,5 billion euros, as well as the announcement that the primary surplus of 2014 was limited to 0.3% instead of 1.5% of GDP, presenting a black hole of 2 billion euros, aim to prepare in terms of mass propaganda not to demand but to prepare for tougher measures as necessary, thus serving the goal through negotiations to save state resources that will be directed towards the recovery of capital profits through state support. So the tax-payer against the people continues and we are in a situation where the poor family will pay for the even poorest. The capital, of course, is unavoidable. Furthermore, the amendment on internal lending is a snatch of cash available for the insurance funds and other public bodies, which are voluntary, and that is also challenging and dangerous, because there is no guarantee of this money, which belongs to the insured. In the name of internal lending to cover the financial gaps, the labour layers will once again be charged, while capital, profits, its prerogatives remain unavoidable and are even strengthened. The consequences were felt with anguish by the fifty thousand cotton producers, who were lately paid today. However, compensation for thousands of farmers continues, as is the return of oil, organic farming and decommissioning programmes and other outstandings. Even the allowances of OPEKEPE - seasonal and permanent staff - have not been paid. It is a fear that this decision on internal lending will create a risk of new and great delays, with the existence of a risk that farmers will not be able to start spring farming, that small and medium-sized enterprises, which have no savings but only debts, will finally be able to survive. In this sense, it is unfortunate to compare the bill with the EAM's palliative. Here poverty is perpetuating, and that is where they were really fighting for independence. It seems, then, that the government, through internal lending, recognizes the debt, but pays it on the back and on the farm and on the people as a whole. In particular, the bill, already from the first chapter, can provide for free reconnection and supply of electricity with 300 kWh, which alone is of great poverty. What's to cover up first? Lighting? Energy? Heating? In addition, dues are retained, when these should be deleted for people who have no income at all, such as the unemployed. The Communist Party of Greece in an amendment that it tabled calls for the debts of families living in poverty to be cancelled and for the monthly provision to be increased. As far as the rent allowance is concerned, it will be directly granted to the renter of the property, offset by debts to the public and insurance institutions. You're hierarchizing the needs of the lessor. The card-based subsidy to three hundred thousand people is very little when the unemployed are one and a half million. Studies also confirm that the number of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion is constantly growing. Already, seven hundred thousand children - 35.5% of the apprenticeship population confirmed by the Greek Statistical Office - this group has material deprivations of 37.3%. If pensioners are also counted, however, who are retired under four hundred euros a month - it is the income criterion that you put in order to incorporate someone into extreme poverty - millions of people are actually coming together that are very poor. The Communist Party of Greece with its amendment calls for a meal to be given to primary and secondary school pupils at the expense of the state budget. We believe that this is the least you can do. I come to the second chapter on the creation of the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption. Corruption and sepsis exist and there will be as many secretaries as you can make, since they are a genuine child of the present exploitation system and inherent in the economic power of the capitalists and the political power of the bourgeoisie. From this symphony come scandals, corruption, sometimes discussed, but not punished, such as the 'SIEMENS' scandal. Others are not considered to be tasty, even though they are challenging and socially vulgar, such as shipowners' tax exemptions, while the world is hungry, children are hungry in schools. Or even, you give duty-free oil to airline operators and shipowners, when schools and popular households rest, with everything that has to do with their health. The profits of the arm's length capital were inextricably even during the time of the crisis. They made billions of euros. In fact, the tax exemptions they have and the government are keeping fish silence. In the workers' reserves, however, you put your hand on it. As regards benefits in kind for unemployed, etc., you maintain the obstacles placed by the previous government to obtain medical care truly poor people. The minimum of fifty marks you put for medical treatment or the condition that they do not have any debts in their fund or that they have been arranged by the AIFM insured who have ceased their profession is unacceptable. This means that most will continue to remain uninsured, as is the case today. Nowhere are you talking about and you do not cover uninsured farmers in active employment, when about 40% of them do not have to pay the OGA premium and they do not have medical care themselves and their families. The Communist Party of Greece has tabled an amendment to the right to full and free medical and hospital care, which must cover the whole people and be provided without conditions and conditions. Finally, your treasure proved to be carbon. Seaweeds for silk ribbons are presented. You do not really treat the effects of absolute impoverishment either. These measures are also in the context of the European Union and its programmes. It creates poverty, unemployment, afflicts its wild anti-Fraud policy, which you too support, and throws away some crumbs, and these too are supposed to be tackled. You continue where the former people have stopped, who of course suddenly appear to have a prologue face and fight for the poorness that they have increased, and also to criticize for its confrontation. Of course, it is always within the framework of the European Community's policy that the minimum guaranteed income has been reformed, and you are seeing it, which is only another mechanism for covering and recycling poverty, a tool for the further reduction of the privileges and, above all, for the cultivation of reduced demands on the people who are suffering. The hope you cultivated seemed very quickly how much shells she was. Prepare for new anti-grass measures. You are urging the well-known recipe of the burnt land, making use of the Troika's estimates. Your exclusive priority is to honour all the debt repayment obligations that the people did not create and will bleed more to pay and all unpaid. This makes it easier for all the capitalist restructurings of the strengthening and recovery of business groups to be made easier and easier to go through. However, we are saying this clearly: those who had hopes for something better must not be disappointed, but react. Much more should they not abandon the objective of the real abolition of memoranda, implementing laws, anti-grassroots restructuring and recovery of losses, conflict and rupture with the European Union and the capitalist development path, which produces and reproduces poverty, insecurity and exploitation. In this sense we cannot vote for this bill and we are expressing ourselves with'residents'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-five students and students and three teachers - attendants of Petros Lesvos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Paul Haikalis, special speaker of the Group of Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, for an extraordinary event I would like to speak for a moment to make a complaint in this House and I apologise to the two rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u92	Here, Mr. Kutsuko, we are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I take advantage of the lively dialogue process to denounce the fact that about twenty-five people from the district of Exarchia, the well-known site, attacked the offices of PASOK and with special tools broken the armored turquoise doors, launched molotov bombs and endangered human lives. This fact has been repeated about twenty days ago, and the PASOK sent a letter to Mr Panousis, so that he does not withdraw our offices, which are known to be in Charilaos Trikoupi and have been attacked many times in the past. I do not want to give any more implications to the fact, but I take the opportunity that the chief minister, Mr Voutsis, is present in this bill, in order to raise the matter and call on the government to take the necessary steps. We cannot be faced with these attacks constantly, risking human lives and deafening the Minister. That is what I wanted to say and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u94	You're welcome. Mr. Paul Haikalis, special speaker of the Group of Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to begin by condemning, of course, the actions taken at PASOK and I think they do not contribute to the creation of a sufficient climate of political life in the development of things in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, if you were asking me personally, I would say that I am very pleased after two and a half years, if you would like, to have a piece of legislation before me that puts man and social justice above all. If you were to ask me, too, whether I am satisfied, and if it solves all the problems of everyone involved in what we say poverty or extreme poverty, I would say 'no' to you for the simple reason that, as much as I observe Mrs Fotius next to me, it does not remind me of anything about the thirteen-year-old boy we saw on the screens with glasses and sticks in the hand, the so-called Harry Potter. When you can't have the materials and the power to do things, I'm sure you can't fully respond, but, at least, you're putting the foundations to start something real from the beginning, when you're in front of you shattered ruins. This bill proves in practice that the new government is immediately starting to implement its electoral commitments, following the priorities set in our programme statements, with the aim of protecting our weakest fellow citizens. I believe that we all understand the difficult situation in which the country finds itself. In the short time the government has shown many positive signs of negotiation with partners and of defending the interests of Greek citizens. It is reasonable in this very short time that we have been called upon to deal with the problems of years which have maintained and raised the two old parties. It is, however, necessary to prove to the Greek people that what we mean and we support them in acts rather than in simple words. We must not allow the impression that we are staying in the complaint of the incomplete legislation of the previous governments. It is time to prove that there is another way, that of honesty and sincere consultation with the Greek people, to give the solutions that will enable the smile to return to the lips of the bewildered by our memorial politicians. The deep recession in the economy caused by the austerity policies and the economic crisis in recent years have led to dramatic social consequences. All social indicators, poverty, unemployment and, above all, youth unemployment have deteriorated dramatically. Our main concern is to give priority to the protection of first homes and the suspension of auctions. An important aid to the unemployed will also be the provision of free tickets for urban transport, while the neoliberalisation of debts, which will give a note of hope to the businessmen of the country, is seen as supporters of the Greek economy. It is true that in recent years there has been a reduction in resources for social support mechanisms, and that is why additional sources of funding have to be ensured. However, an integrated programme against poverty cannot be based solely on voluntary welfare policies, but must also be linked to development policies, employment, education and vocational training, health, housing and support for childhood and maternity, which must be taken into account immediately. By saying 'children' and'motherhood', of course, the demographic problem comes to everyone's mind, which I think is the country's major problem and that this needs to be addressed immediately. A very big bet we have also taken on the fight against corruption is a bet in which the entire Greek people are at our side. The new General Secretariat against Corruption is called upon to undertake a project of paramount importance for the smooth functioning of the state and the prevalence of law in Greek society. The third chapter regulates the provision of medical care to various categories of our fellow people, who in recent years have been affected by the economic crisis, so that, according to what is happening today, they are not entitled to basic health benefits either. So starting with this positive draft law, we lay the foundations for the minimum protection of our weakest economic fellow citizens and show the way for a state that prioritises our citizens and our daily needs. I believe that these days there is a real dialogue, based on the human factor, which was clearly missing from the previous House. On behalf of the Independent Greeks, I pledge that we will continue this course. But, gentlemen, is the humanitarian crisis just not having to pay the water, the light, the phone? No, of course not. Humanitarian crisis, and even to extreme poverty - minds, I would say, more and more - is this fantastic, fancy world of lovers of the leather round goddess called 'ball' and which we all know is directly related to the scourge, corruption and violence, events that have made a mistaken country and which, at the moment, show a way for our country that is not fit for it. Humanitarian crisis 2015 are the skull sites, full of garbage and constructed veins, which separate citizens in second and third categories. Forgotten, too, in the 'Kopta' camp from the humanitarian crisis are the people who have been there since 1999, from the earthquakes, and to whom no one has paid any attention. They're forgotten by the state. They live one of their own Golgothas. No one has paid any attention to what is going on. They live in limits of actual impoverishment, with cut streams and houses that have been given to them by substances that are currently carcinogenic. I think the state should also be interested in this area. Humanitarian crisis is also the imposition of the power of unscrupulous employers who are exploiting, in the absence of labour contracts, human suffering by imposing their power to the inalienable right - constitutionally guaranteed right - every citizen for work. Humanitarian crisis has a country that cannot react when it is left to store souls without being able to manage these souls. I am talking about the irregular incoming immigrants who live under a special regime in Greece. This is something that no country wants - and from all countries it is hopeless - but they have forced Greece to live it. Humanitarian crisis exists in our country, when we experience a lack of security and when policing has become a joke. Humanitarian crisis, samples of lack of respect, mind, discipline are also Bullying, this last imported fashion. On the occasion of the death of Vangelis Yakoumakis - for which no one spoke - who was found dead yesterday and is a wound to the country, I would like to say that this is an imported fashion that we have to face. It is a sign of extreme poverty and a lack of knowledge and information. It is therefore up to both parents and teachers and the state itself to take steps to ensure that Vangelis Yakumakis is the last victim of this terrible fashion that has come from abroad. Some people show their lazyness and manhood by imposing their power on others, helpless persons. The lack of education and ignorance of our culture is also a humanitarian crisis with extreme poverty, when you do not know these basic elements, which are breathing, air in the place we live in. Humanitarian crisis also has the European Union, when our so-called European partners move our finger against corruption to comply when they themselves lead the country to the limits of poverty, ignoring the recent commands of a people. Ladies and gentlemen, a humanitarian crisis is not a concept which has only a material place, but has a moral place. This moral part is the most offended in our day and if we look, we will see that there is a huge deficit there. I hope we can fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Haikalis. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu, special speaker of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u97	Minister, would you like to say a word about the matter raised by our parliamentary representative or have you not been informed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u98	You know all the offices are guarded. That's it. If anything happened without safekeeping, we have to investigate it and we'll do it right away. I've notified Mr. Panussi. However, for today, where there was a somewhat special demonstration, orders were given to be guardian, public buildings and parties, everything. Let's see if there's any issue, Mr. Kutsuko, alas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, today there has been an intervention in the legislative process. Mr Voutsis announced the government's position on this intervention. Indeed, our response must be immediate, clear and documented and in particular on matters that are agreed. However, the Government gave this right, unfortunately, to the troika, firstly because, with the agreement of 20 February and the 'creative ambiguities', it raised all the issues that Parliament will decide on here and in the Troika's view, whether or not they are a unilateral action and, secondly, because this issue of dealing with the humanitarian crisis has raised it under the approval of creditors, and it is an agreed matter with the European Commission, and I would ask you to come to this reality, to mention it to the European Commission's dear main representative. I have the letter from the European Commission - and the Ministry has it, of course, because it is addressed to Mr Kegeroglu, but it is not personal, it is addressed to the Deputy Minister of Kegeroglu - who gives the approval to this whole project and, of course, it also includes issues relating to its implementation. Where and how, then, will the issues that have been agreed with the European Union be called into question and subject to the approval of lenders? But, unfortunately, you have dismissed this argument, even going to the European Aid Fund for the most deprived, for which we have been given the approval on 15 December, to ask Juncker to give us the approval to implement it. Hey, this is no longer a negotiating tactic! This is not support for the country's interests! You should clarify the road map for the negotiations. After you have dismantled the flag at the International Conference too early to remove most of the debt, you have entered a regularism which does not lead anywhere, in contradictions, to bilingualism and to mutual action. Unfortunately, you do not have a road map. While you were on your way to a loan contract without a programme - a memorandum, you were on a programme without funding. These are not your party case, however. It is not even a case - of course, under no circumstances - of Mr Varoufakis. It's not even a government case. It's a country case. That is why, as soon as possible, we must discuss the roadmap you have chosen. You must choose between the European road and the scarlet ones. The country cannot live the insecurity, live under the terror regime of anyone, the 'accident' or the 'accident'. This is a very clear debate, so that there will also be the necessary national consultation. You refused her from the first moment. But that's wrong. We need to achieve this in the basic principles on the negotiation of the major issues for the country. We disagree - yes! - today for the surplus, if it is 0.3% or if it has to be 1.5%. Do you remember in 2010 what we disagreed about? We disagreed about the deficit of ECU 36 billion. or EUR 34 billion. With the sacrifices of the Greek people we have come to disagree about the surplus. Hey, no! These sacrifices must not be jeopardised, under any circumstances - and in this I think everyone agrees - so that we can move on to the next day. How are we going to get through the next day, how will there be economic recovery, growth, how will there be productive reconstruction if there is no funding for the real economy? When you drain the stone - as you say - and drain public, banks, institutions, insurance funds, OAS, OPEKEPE and when you do all this to pay the IMF dose - I say it because you are scoring that you did not ask for money to finance the programme, that you did not ask for the 11 billion. The euro of the CFSF has neither asked for the continuation and integration of the credit line - then you are really undermining any prospect of economic recovery and, of course, we are driving back. Today, after so much effort, especially in communications, we were in the same position as in September 2014, that is, they accepted us back at the negotiating table. This is the great success of having us back at the negotiating table! Of course, there are changes. There are changes, because only 70% of the previous agenda is now included. The issues have been a little differentiated. The Troika is now called 'the representatives of the three institutions'. I think a fourth was added. The technical stairways are prohibited from being photographed either in hotels or in underground or wherever they make the meetings. But these are meaningless things. Some people talk about it and laugh. "Perry we'll put on those who used to say "troika" again! Is this the issue for the country today or how we will continue to be stronger, even if you want from the outcome of the elections, with you in front, to achieve things that are positive for the economy and society? So here we come to discuss a bill. In the case, then, when we heard from outside, as observers, the right information from the Minister but also from other speakers, about the problem in our country concerning poverty - the people at risk of poverty, the unemployed, the people who experience extreme poverty - and then we heard the reference to the'medium' of this situation, which this House of Greeks agrees - I think most parties support this bill - and we saw that this'medium' is about thirty and sixty thousand instead of five hundred or three hundred thousand, as it was in the programme announcements, it would be like to say ourselves that we are unworthy to address the problem, which we are right to see and despite the fact that we agree. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] Here we should have real measures and protection shields to deal with the humanitarian crisis. And we insist on that, because we have made this choice. That is why we insist and not because the Minister, the government or the others do not want it. We insist, therefore, that the only route is integrated intervention through the new, innovative and modern institution, the guaranteed social income. Instead of multiple interventions, different programmes, opacity, seals and overlapping policies, what is needed is transparency within the framework of a single social protection system. That's something we insist on, because things are not simple. Otherwise, we would have done so throughout the country and would not have proceeded with the pilot project, since it also needs to be evaluated in order to correct errors. This is what the Minister is right about. However, this assessment can be carried out at the same time in the next period. In fact, this is one of the positive things that has been found within the mail Baroufakis and the agreement, as I have said before, despite the fact that it was not a proposal from the Greek Government. So I repeat that this is one of the very positive elements. However, it is not possible to deal particularly with extreme poverty to wait for theoretical assessments and so-called experts around the world or in Greece to agree on exactly how to deal with this issue. So let us start looking at the issue and in the process we will deal with any problems. We say 'yes' to the three issues which have been fragmented, contradictory and improperly promoted by the government. Of course you cannot say 'no' to that. But, to be explained, after the correct corrections made and which were poorly incorporated into the work we did in committee - given that it was very important - and the original text, not the actual one, came back in plenary and not the second reading,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u100	It has been done for technical reasons, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u101	If it was for technical reasons, all right. We would ask the Minister, given that it was very important, and the issues raised by other colleagues, regarding the criteria, objectives, structures and mechanisms with which this will be implemented, to bring the draft joint ministerial decision to the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs to discuss it, to tell everyone what his opinion is, whether or not there are any problems. We are therefore voting for these three articles. However, we must immediately discuss the implementation of the guaranteed social income. It's no different, because the numbers are relentless. It's another won time and breath and another thing that's lost time and inertia. Because that's what this is about. There's a confusion. The government is trying to tell us that the gainful time and breath are matched by inertia and lost time. Oh, no! The sooner, the better, especially when it comes to people, especially when it comes to the problems experienced by each family. And there is the potential, and that is where we can put more pressure on everyone, together and in relation to the budget. What exactly are we going to negotiate on the humanitarian crisis with the institutions? What is the subject of the negotiation? And because you have put it, I will tell you that it is here, given that there is an agreement on the guaranteed social income. Instead of pressing on the agreement and their commitment to implement and enlarge within 2015, we are opening another way, which is good, but small and inefficient, and we are abandoning what we have agreed. That's what this is! We insist! It is the agreed social policy with the basic pillar of guaranteed social income, as we have worked out it and it is within the national strategy for social inclusion, social protection. It's not inconceivable. It is also planned to reform the national plan in two years' time. There's also his specialty until the end of April, June, I don't know how long it will take. The central point is, however, that it is an agreement with the European Commission and therefore no Costello could send us any messages. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a provision which is very correct with regard to insurance, which extends the arrangements that exist for various cases to cover the medical care of many people. From my experience - although I have not been able to convince those who had to sign or legislate in order to have this solution - what is needed today is a universal treatment for all the citizens who do not join in the cases of law. In other words, according to the amendment that I have tabled by those uninsured - or those who have lost their insurance capacity for any reason - are not covered by Article 30 of this bill or by other provisions in force, they are beneficiaries - without any other conditions - of the booklet of insured and economically weak citizens, on the sole criterion of their declared family income in the past three years not to exceed EUR 12 000, on average. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The second paragraph in the same amendment - which I have added - says that the holder of a booklet of uninsured and economically weak citizens is entitled to full access to the ERCY, to the ERCY, with full medical and hospital care. Unfortunately, the law under which the relevant KHS, for which a working party had been set up to change it, and we had changed it, had then signed as the Ministry of Labour, but had not signed the Ministry of Health - and which is now being reviewed by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Xanthos and Mr Milos, will not be able to solve the problem unless the provision I am saying to you is passed, which covers the citizen for full medical care. I close by stressing once again that the actions that we have been doing many times, if the tests - one separately, it seems that it is not what the place, society, needs, to deal with the crisis, while seeing them all with synergy - and it is a good thing to amend Article 4 - then we can have a better result. I will call on the Minister of Economy and, of course, the Minister of Labour to withdraw the withdrawal of the extension of funding of the poverty networks - to which Mrs Fotio referred - for the first half of 2015. On Friday, unfortunately, a revocational decision was adopted to extend the funding of these programmes and we are in March. Do you know what that means? It means that seventy thousand beneficiaries and about three thousand workers in these networks are in the air. It needs to be completed in six months, as the regions have the corresponding funding to integrate them into the RDPs and to launch this process smoothly. I would ask you, because it is not primarily about the Ministry of Labour, but about the Ministry of Economy, to ask Mr Stathakis to withdraw the decision because it will actually cause enormous problems. Thank you and wish the articles with the debate more converging than disagreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u102	Thank you to the rapporteur for the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Mr Kegeroglu. The Minister of State for the Fight against Corruption and the Violation of Economic Crime, Mr. Nicoludis, has called for the floor. Before I give him the floor, however, I would like to say on a proposal from the Vice-President of this House, Mr Lambroulis, from what I have said. The list is eighty-four. I therefore propose that we apply the six-minute period and, in the course of the five-minute period, in order to speak as much as possible. You will be aware that after the roll-call vote at the outset, which will take place tomorrow at 12 noon and is expected to be completed at the latest at 13.30 p.m., we will enter the next two meetings that will still be held. So I can also propose to this House those who will not make it possible for them to speak in principle to be preferable in the debate on the articles. Does this House agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u103	So the House unanimously agreed. Well, that's pleasant. Come on, Mr. Nicoludis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor, firstly, to describe the purpose of this bill under discussion and, in particular, Articles 6 to 15. I will try as briefly as possible, since I think it is clear to everyone what the purpose of this bill and of these articles is. Secondly, to identify with the utmost accuracy and clarity the meaning of some of the terms contained in the text of the bill, believing that some explanations will be given in this way and that the debate on the next speakers will be facilitated, which I think is unnecessary in some respects to mention after the clarifications we are going to make. Thirdly, to give some answers to specific questions and requests raised during the debate in the committee responsible. The aim of the bill and articles under discussion, therefore, is to enhance efficiency in the fight against corruption and economic crime, both in the field of prevention and in the field of repression. This is reflected in the term 'fight', which includes both the above concepts, namely the concept of prevention and the concept of repression. As someone will likely notice, there is talk of corruption in the text of the bill and sometimes of economic crime. I think that I am obliged to make some definitions of the meaning of these two conditions. The reference to one term sometimes and never to another was random. It was precisely for reasons of symbolicity and, in particular, in order to enjoy the Government's intention to combat both of these public life sufferings. However, from a scientific point of view it is the same criminal phenomenon, even if some in their theoretical approach want to say that they can clearly distinguish the boundaries of one another. In international scientific literature corruption is always referred to as the economic crime of the reputable persons, the known "white-collar-rime", i.e. the crime of the bearers of white incorporation. But also in our own, corruption as a forensic concept is no longer limited to the individual cases of the old service crimes of the Criminal Code - the well-known "bribery", "bribery" in Articles 235 et seq. of the Criminal Code - but also includes other phenomena of unfair enrichment through abuses of public office or office, such as the known "lobying", illegal political money, etc. These are, therefore, aspects of a single multi-faceted and multi-educated phenomenon that is generally described as an economic crime and relates to the breach of the terms of the 'legally exchanged', with a view to proclaiming an illegal asset. As a result, some apparent ambiguity in the use of the terms 'corruption' and 'economic crime' merely reflects the real picture, the real ambiguity, of the above criminal forms. It is not the fault of words we sometimes formulate them anyway. If something is to blame - or we are looking to find out what it is to blame - it is the real ambiguity in social reality and in the criminal reality that brings these two criminal forms to confuse and connect many. During the debate before the committee, various aspects were asked to ensure that the provisions of the draft law do not leave any scope for intervention by the administration in the work and the responsibilities of the judicial authorities, which would in any way violate their independence guaranteed by the Constitution. In order to avoid any trace or suspicion of such intent or of such a possibility, Article 10 of the draft law has been recast twice. And I would be quite frankly ready to formulate it seven times, if necessary, in order to avoid the slightest doubt. On the other hand, I have not agreed to recast the provisions of Article 7(1)(d) of the draft law and the provisions of Article 13. And I will try to explain to you - I think it is convincing - why I refused it. First of all, let us look at the provisions for those who were not in the committee responsible to have a clear and very vivid picture of what these provisions say. Therefore, Article 7(1)(d) of the draft law states: ‘The General Secretariat for the Combat of Corruption removes conflicts and resolves issues of overlaps between services or bodies involved in the fight against corruption’. One could say, "But the prosecutors are involved in the fight against corruption. So it is possible to break conflicts too'? Here you will allow me to disagree fully with any thought or suspicion. Entities shall be specific and measurable. It's the Prosecutor's Office, it's the Port, the Police, the Police of Economic Crime, the Internal Audit Service. All other bodies, i.e. the police with the Port Authority, the Economic Crime with the IMO, can be admitted to conflict at some point. None of them, but none of them can conflict with the D.A. The D.A.'s role in our country is well known. In no case can we imagine that there will be disagreement or conflict of competence between the prosecutor and the ILO, between the prosecutor and the port, and that in this case the General Secretariat will be required to intervene in order to eliminate conflicts. I am interested in the essential and that is what I wanted to explain to the House. Moreover, I can only note that the exact same wording, Mr Athanasios, exists in subsection IC.2 verses (e) and (n). 4152/2013, setting out the responsibilities of the National Coordinator for the fight against corruption. Of course, there has never been any problem, and obviously this debate has taken place when this law was to be passed, and from what I saw no one raised the question of whether this could give rise to issues relating to the role of prosecutors. Please see them. This provision is precisely - literally - the same as that. Let us now see Article 12(1a) of the draft law, which provides that the Minister of State is to draw up coordinated action programmes and controls their implementation by the supervisory, prosecuting and management bodies. Beyond the clear word, this is about the mechanisms and bodies of the administration which, in my opinion, leave no doubt - we are talking about control mechanisms, administrative mechanisms and bodies - the 'administrative' refers to all of this - I would like to note some further elements. The prosecutor, ladies and gentlemen, is in no way a mechanism. No one can understand the prosecutor as a mechanism. The public prosecutor is organised in the individual system, and this has become more clear from the time of Zisiadis and Buropoulos already. So when the Minister says that it is aimed at mechanisms, it cannot in any case be considered as being addressed to the prosecutor. Therefore, my refusal to make any modifications had no other reason or any kind of stubbornness, of course. There's no place around where anyone's gonna project their beliefs. I just think that for something that is absolutely clear, if you want to try to clarify it, you are doing exactly the opposite, because you are creating an artificial confusion. That's why I've always refused. I hope my arguments have persuaded and heard any doubts. It would be wrong to attempt any clarification on these two elements. Finally, I want to refer to an issue on which I have a sensitivity, and I suppose that everyone can easily understand it. I asked myself in the debate before the committee - and I asked directly - why Tena is being abolished. That was the word question. I shall therefore try directly to give you an answer. Mr. Tendes is an excellent scientist, he has been an excellent judiciary officer and he is an excellent man. I do not even have any problem saying that he has served in an excellent way the institution of the national coordinator. The one who proved insufficient to deal effectively with the critical issues of corruption is not Mr Tendes, but the institution itself of the National Coordinator against Corruption and that for a very simple but also very important reason. Ladies and gentlemen, this institution did not have operational powers. It did not have the operational control of individual control and prosecution mechanisms and services. If these powers do not exist, there can be no mention of results in the fight against corruption. The establishment of the national coordinator, as was the case in the short time, despite Mr Ten - I repeat and end with this reference to the person - is the 'ayast' with which we sought to relieve the public space of rodents. It is, in my opinion, the pleasure of the raids on public money to have such institutions, which seem to us to be putting them on to fight against corruption, but it is, in fact, nothing but the 'ayast'! The corruption, ladies and gentlemen, is not done with sanctuaries! Corruption wants a fight. It can't be with scout exercises. It's known to all of us that to expel the rats, sanctuary is good. In any case, however, you also need a cat. And the "cat" is provided and provided with the draft law under discussion, and it is nothing but the provision of operational competence to enable operational action to be taken to those and those who will be called upon to activate and operate the individual institutions and bodies. The last point I would like to make is that it is known to all of you that I do not have the status of parliament. This makes me feel hypocrisy to feel that I owe increased and particular respect to those who have this status. I have imposed my obligation on myself for as long as I am Minister and I will appear before Parliament to systematically avoid any kind of confrontation. I would therefore like to state first of all that any disagreement I am going to make today and whenever I am given the opportunity and the honour of being in your presence, does not have the meaning of confrontation. It is simply a different opinion. After this brief prologue, I would like to address the honourable Mrs Manolakou, the representative of the JRC, who I have heard two times say: 'You will not be building a General Secretariat for the Combat of Corruption, you will not be building anything you want, corruption will not be combated! Corruption will only be fought when the capitalist system ceases to exist." I do not have, dear lady, any attitude at any political level to oppose you as to whether corruption depends on the existence of the capitalist system in the economic field, even though I have some thoughts that it is not only a pure phenomenon of the capitalist system. And in other, non-capitalist systems, there was corruption as far as I know. However, it is not the field in which I wish to express an opposing opinion in the same way. I stayed with the question. So, what do you say, dear and honorable lady? Because we cannot change the capitalist system, should we raise our hands high in the fight against corruption? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] My answer - let me always be allowed in the same context - is no. We are here to fight corruption, regardless of what the socio-economic system is, in which we move and exist. One more thing, which - please - should not be taken as a magnificence. We're not just here to fight. We're to win. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And since we are given the necessary time, I assure you, in full consciousness of the burden that this kind of assurance has, that I cannot promise that we will make this world, this country paradise. However, if we are given a little time, this country in this sector, in the area of corruption, will be another country! And you'll remember. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u106	Madam President, on personal grounds I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u107	Mrs Manolakou, do you want the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u108	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u109	I do not think there has been a personal insult, but because the Minister referred to your speech, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u110	I must clarify that the JRC is fighting against corruption and corrupt policies. Politicians - not people - and anti-corruption politicians. We are very clear and with concrete examples. When shipowners are given tax relief provocatively and at the same time people are hungry, this is a corrupt policy! In this sense, no committee, no secretariat against corruption is going to go after such a policy. So in this respect, Minister, you should also take the position of the JRC into account. Because when there is a tax exemption on the shipowner and the same tax exemption does not mean that the ordinary man does not have it, then that is a challenge and a rot! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. With regard to the other systems, yes, corruption has also been in those countries that have tried to build socialism. But when was it even increased? When they went to copy capitalist structures. That's why the capitalist system is inherent in corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr Panos Skourletis has been asked for the floor. Minister, would you like the floor for an intervention or a speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u112	For intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u113	I mean, you want the five minutes you're entitled to at all times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u114	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u115	Can I have the floor on the Rules of Procedure, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u116	You don't have the floor, Mr. Kutsuko. I've given the floor to the Minister. I'll give you the floor later. Mr. Skourlet, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u117	I take the floor, because I want to make a clarification. Before Mr Kegeroglou said there has been a decision to withdraw from the Ministry of Development and Mr Stathakis in relation to poverty structures. I can inform you that no such move has been made. So there is no point in revoking the revocation, as he has said. What has been done is that there has been a change in the technical notes, so that we have all the full elements that will help us to redesign, to extend and continue the operation. One issue is that. The second issue I would like to comment on is something that, in the end, even though it has also been put forward as a question, has not been answered. It is heard and again heard the need to extend the minimum guaranteed income programme. Of course, the crucial question is why you have not received any benefits, because you have not put the corresponding amount in the budget that is running, you have not answered us. I would also like to raise a third point. We do not want to let this work as it is. Obviously, we understand the pressing needs of the unemployed and the Greek society today, but understand that when they are given, for example, 100 euros cannot go to the unemployed and all the rest are lost to a network of exploiting this whole grid and the mechanism. We will therefore redesign it so that we have as much effectiveness as possible of all kinds of programmes from the European funds, because we are interested at the end of this process in staying jobs and not just in having a recycling of unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u118	Now may I have the floor on the Rules of Procedure, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Minister, on the occasion of this, I would like to remind you of planning until tomorrow afternoon to explain the reasons for the amendment you have tabled so that the House can decide whether or not to accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u120	I've got it in mind. I'm going to make a basic intervention to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u121	Deal. Mr Koutsoukos has asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative. Do you want your dentistry, Mr. Kutsuko? Because you have intervened several times. I have not counted them, but, in order to respect the Members who expect them to start talking, we must now enter a normality, which you invoke. You want to tell us what process?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u122	By the same procedure that you, as a parliamentary representative and rapporteur of SYRIZA, were taking the floor every time on a point of order. Same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u123	In what process? If you invoke anything, you have to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u124	There is an article in the Rules of Procedure saying that the ministers will speak after the first six Members. So because we have fourteen ministers who sign and eighty-four Members, if they continue - I have not intervened, when Mr Nicoludis spoke, who, as an extra-parliamentary officer, said he also respects Parliament - so the debate is not going to speak. I would therefore ask you to ask the ministers to apply the Rules of Procedure. That's what I said. Remove it from my time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u125	Mr Kutsukouko, it is good that these complaints should come from non-speakers and not from the many speakers. We are entering the list of speakers. I invite the first speaker, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos. You have the floor for six minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u126	The first measures to tackle the impoverishment of broad social strata in the five-year neoliberal moratorium in Greece do not eliminate, ladies and gentlemen, poverty or even extreme poverty. They're just comforting, but not underestimating it. Because, at the same time as these measures, they mobilise the structures of the solidarity society, from networks without intermediaries to social hospitals, social pharmacies, Church interventions and many other humanitarian interventions, to the conditions we live in. Personally, I would be happy if the government that I support could assure that a highly indebted country, which is subject to blackmailing to serve a loan, which also includes distorted capitalist development and ruthless budgetary discipline, austerity in favour of wealth and the maintenance of the misery of the client state and intertwined corruption, will not have homeless to sleep on benches or socks, will not have hungry people who are forced to imitate Giannis Agiannis or faint in schools, will not have students forced to turn a manoeuvre on or families with a cut stream. I would also be happy if the Government of Social Rescue can tell us - I think Mrs Fotio can assure us - that the Government can turn Greece into a normal European country, which applies the United Europe's Charter of Fundamental Rights for Food or Housing, Energy, Health and Public Goods. The JRC claims that measures are crumbs, seaweeds for silk ribbons, advertising fraud and that SYRIZA is not aimed at overthrowing capitalism, which is responsible for poverty and social inequalities. I think he's wrong. Measures shall contribute to addressing extreme poverty. They also have symbolic character and gravity. They show the way for a society without poor and rich, without class competition, without exploitation and alienation, in a human emancipation society and it is important political intervention in the circumstances. You have just heard the Minister, Mr Voutsi, say about the blackmail that we see now and at the same time, even the technical tiles of lenders - and not only Mr Draghi or Mr Siomple - insist that we demonstrate that we are implementing the criteria for the fifth evaluation of the current programme and not the seven reforms, which were agreed on 20 February. They want us to apply the nineteen prerequisites, team redundancies, lockout, pension cuts, etc. The tragic thing is that they want to mortgage the future income that the Bank of Greece will have. And if the JRC criticises the view of a dogmatic anti-capitalism, which does not understand that, in order to reach the free and equal producers' society, it needs a strategy that will lead to overthrows of the correlations, and at this historic stage, the criticism of the New Democracy, the PASOK and some others, I think it is challenging. They know very well - because they point out that little money is being given - that we would have another possibility of financing, but in terms of subjection and humiliation that this government is not going to do. It is double provocative, because they claim to have shared a social surplus, moved to the logic of minimum guaranteed income and left Greece standing. For the first twelve to answer. Whether Greece is standing is revealing the overall picture we have. A working group, set up under the responsibility of the Deputy Minister for Health and collected information from the OENGE, associations of hospital doctors, hospital administrations, leads us to the conclusion that we are facing a tragic reality that must be tackled urgently in parallel with the first measures taken by the government to deal with the humanitarian tragedy. I think that what we are taking today as a tragic suppression of public hospitals - especially those in the difficult areas, in the islands, in the regions of the country - in medical, nursing, laboratory staff - who presents an image of sport - with explosive deficiencies, dangerous and guilty of the wrong course to deal with the health problems of many people, we must now tackle it and do everything we can to convince the Ministries of Administrative Reform and Finance that addressing this situation - that is, the measures we will take to rectify the public health system in this critical phase that the poor do not have to pay and that the public health system opens to all, insured, uninsured - must ensure all those structures that Greece can say have a decent intervention in its public health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. The time is 22.20 minutes, at 18.00 hours the meeting was due and I am the second person on the list. As you can see if we do not find a way to get a better understanding in this Chamber, sooner or later Members will simply not be able to speak. You have set a limit on the twelfth memorial tomorrow to make the roll-call vote and then to enter the debate on the articles. This means that very few Members will be placed in the first place. And that is a problem of Parliament. I come a little bit to the debate on this bill. First of all, I am pleased that Mr Voutsis is still here to make a few things clear. On 20 February your government signed an agreement on Eurogroup. The government of Alexis Tsipras, the government of social salvation, the "first time left" put wide signature in an agreement. This agreement poorly, you have not brought it to the House to discuss it. Because if you had brought her to the House to discuss it, we would probably have caught up with today's developments. You decided to take all the blame on you. In this agreement, Mr Voutsi, you have signed - because it is nice to see what you have signed - that you are bound, Alexis Tsipras and his Government, that you will not proceed with any unilateral energy, and you too, the Government of Social Rescue, have signed up to measures only if you have found budgetary equivalents. That's what you signed. We as a new Republic are voting in principle on the bill. We vote in good faith that you who are bringing this agreement and who are responsible for implementing it have made the necessary arrangements so that they do not all the things we are voting on here for the purposes of stopping the country's funding. Because, again, your government, your government representative and today's statement said that it would be a disaster not to continue financing the country. So if we're all informed, the responsibility for everything that's going on is only you. We vote for the bill of good faith. Don't laugh, don't laugh at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u129	And you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u130	I'm persecuting my party. Because the mandate you received from the Greek people on 25 January is to find a solution within the euro. And listen to what we are living today: Mr. Diaselblum - who is no passer by, is the President of the Eurogroup with whom you are negotiating and concluding an agreement - said that the Cyprus scenario is being considered for Greece. I do not remember any Greek citizen giving his approval to your Government to have closed banks and deposit haircuts. Because that's the Cyprus script for those who don't know it. Also, in order to be clear and informed in this Chamber, at no point in the election campaign Mr. Alexis Tsipras said that we might be meeting with an internal payment stop, such as the one we live today. Because I heard the previous colleague in Stepa who closed down with his concern about the public health system. Do you know what the reality of the public health system is? Papageorgiou Hospital today. I'm talking about the Thessaloniki MPs. EOPY does not pay for what he owed to the Papageorgiou Hospital, my dear Mr. Amanatidis - I was found by the association of hospital workers - who had to give early January and February. They used the money in January and February for suppliers to pay salaries and pensions. They have no more money to even pay wages and pensions next month.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u131	The pensions? Is that Copy-paste?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u132	Wages. And I say'retirements'. Workers' wages. Already one company confiscated for 2.5 million. Don't laugh at all. If the Papageorgiou Hospital closes, do not laugh at all, Mr. Phile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u133	We're laughing at your mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u134	One company confiscated the hospital a few days ago and the Papageorgiou Hospital is at risk over the government of social salvation and while there were bills on the humanitarian crisis in the next 20 days to be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u135	Another version of ATMs is this. From terrorism to terrorism, you're going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u136	So, Mr. Voutsi, you are making an internal payment stop. Why have you done this? In order to pay the instalments to the lenders and not to go bankrupt, at the outset of Mr. Varoufakis "we will plunge the stone and draw blood to pay our lenders". If anyone from New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, had said, "We will pour the stone out and pay our lenders," the ceilings would have fallen here. In any case, Mr Varoufakis said so. So Mr. Varoufakis stands up for the stone. Which one? Cash assets of the insurance funds, hospitals and agencies. That's what pays our lenders, but he's making an internal payment stop. And Mr Voutsis now comes here and says 'we do not retreat'. Yes, very good. The responsibility lies with you, who want to and take it, who even had a plan. You misinformed to take authority. You wanted to drop the Samara government, don't lose Venice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I ask for a minute's tolerance, Madam President. So to collect it, you had to have brought here the agreement you signed to know the terms. You didn't. You rule for yourself in hiding and violating. You have not informed us whether all of this has been discussed with the European partners. Suddenly, we learn from the other side that they consider it a unilateral energy, and we are, as National Representation, in the dark. Responsibility is all for you. And to close, because I hear a number of comments about the major successes to rename the troika in institutions and stuff like that. You will enter all blogs to see today's statement by Angela Merkel, Chancellor who is going to meet the Prime Minister in Berlin on Monday. What did Angela Merkel say to her MPs? Listen to the phrase, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because the world has a tomb and you hide the joy: "The meeting with Alexis Tsipras in no way reduces the importance of the evaluation of Greece by the troika." Now how does Chancellor Merkel, who is going to meet Mr. Tsipras, say to her MPs that she expects the evaluation of the troika, the same troika that you killed and abolished, that is only you and the Government of Social Rescue know that. As far as the draft law is concerned, we have said it in committee too, Minister. A bill based on common ministerial decisions, which, based on the rate you are ruling, will take at least one year to be adopted, is the least mockery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. You spoke seven minutes and forty-five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u139	The Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Voutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u140	Obviously not on personal grounds, although I was named by Mr Georgiadis too many times, perhaps assuming that I would interrupt him at the time. But now, because we are serious about this, I will say that we have really had time to hear in this House such a strong and coherent, apologetic rhetoric in favour of the austerity powers and monuments in Europe, with full coverage and an alibi for Mr Diaselblum - by name - for Mrs Merkel, for Mr Costellos, etc. Perhaps - I do not know - if the previous speaker had more time to say about others. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Look, instead of saying that there is one-sided action against the country, multiple unilateral energy, by closing the neck of liquidity, even from the 1 trillion Draghi Plan - which is outside the European Union's rules, and while it was right that these decisions were made to have minimum liquidity across Europe, it is for the most needy one, our country - you are coming and saying that we have a responsibility? For what? For a payoff stop! Six, eight, four and a half billion? Do you remember the years that we spent here, which we owed the public because of the implementation of the memorial policies to the small, medium-sized, hospitals, normal payment stop over three years, so that they can come out falsely allegedly misappropriated and allegedly surpluses? Where do you say that? So where are you talking? To nothing people who haven't heard, don't they know where they are in another world? And you're talking about a payment stop? Of course, they may have been late for cotton producers for three and a half days and were given today. 200 million has been credited and you know that, after your intervention, which you were right to do, because that is the role of counter-population. And you absolve the government for unilateral energy? Should we have guilt? Should we have guilt that doesn't pay us as a country for bonds, for which we should have a larger cap, for not giving what they won from the Greek bonds from the Central Bank, for not putting us in the Draghi plan, for the fact that the Juncker project is at stake? On the contrary, you should have been pretty concerned. I would not say proud, because you are not this political school. That's your right. You should have been quite concerned, because we have really managed to reach a political level, for the first time, the debate and, at the same time, to be an issue that concerns all international fora and public dialogue, not in the sense of 'what is going to happen with poor Greece', but in the sense of seeking another strategy, an alternative strategy beyond austerity. So we're going to get time. There will be time for the Greek people, more political connections will come and this rota will change. That's for sure. If you were right about what you said, you know what it is? Because you repeat it three times. Indeed, responsibility is all ours, for this new path that the country follows, responsibility is all ours! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Anyone who wants to share it from the wings of the House welcome and find together and compositions and get influenced and take two steps from here, two steps from there. But what the Prime Minister said 'no step back' will come into force until the last minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u142	Is this how the procedure will go, Madam President? Will a minister answer to every Member?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u143	I would like to speak on staff for a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u144	If you would like, first of all, to say, Mr Georgiadis, that I do not imagine you imply that Parliament can be blackmailed in relation to the vote of Members from anyone's statements. Now let me make some announcements about the setting-up of committees. The decision of the President of Parliament of 12 March 2015, No 4044/2562/13-03-2015, established under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period, was made. Excuse me, the diaspora. The Minister responsible spoke a lot and "language language". But he doesn't tell the truth. The decision of the President of Parliament of 12 March 2015, No 4046/2564/13-03-2015, established under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period, was made. In its decision of 12 March 2015 of the President of Parliament, No 4048/2566/13-03-2015, the Special Standing Committee on Research and Technology was set up under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period. The decision of the President of Parliament of 12 March 2015, No 4049/2567/13-03-2015, established under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period, was made. The decision of the President of Parliament of 12 March 2015, No 4050/2568/13-03-2015, established under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period, Special Standing Committee on Road Safety. The decision of the President of Parliament of 12 March 2015, No 4052/2569/13-03-2015, established under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period, the Special Permanent Committee of the Penitentiary System and other structures of Incarceration of Residents. The relevant decisions have already been posted to the 'Parliamentary Transparency' many days ago and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Amanatidis, are you insisting that you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u146	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u148	Madam President, thank you for that. It is precisely because my name has been mentioned and has essentially given my face ignorance of the problem of the Papageorgiou Hospital, I would like to make the following statement: that we also communicate and have contacts with the unions. The problem has been known for a week and the promise we have from the Ministry of Health is that this problem will be solved immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u149	I too want the floor on personal grounds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u150	Not even 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u151	Madam President, I want the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u152	You don't have the power to ask for the floor. And before weeping for the speakers who won't speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u153	You referred to me personally. The president said my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u154	There are next speakers. Respect them. You have spoken to the House many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u155	Madam President, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u157	I address Mr Voutsi above all to you and to Mr Voutsi. I did not say that our Parliament is being blackmailed, Madam President. You gave me something I didn't say. I said that your government - as far as I know, you have not, personally, disagreed - and Mr Tsipras has certainly signed a paper on 20 February to which Mr Tsipras and his government are committed - that he will not take unilateral action. So if anyone's blackmailed our Parliament, it's not me, it's you! So don't put what you do to us. You have signed, Madam President, that you will not take unilateral action. Mr. Voutissis has signed it as a member of the Government. Don't come here to teach us lessons! Secondly, throughout the election period we said you wouldn't get an increase in interest rates because you don't follow the rules to get it. And that's what's happening now. And third and lastly, with all this conversation -- that you've been stabbed in your throat -- I'm not rejoicing. I want to tell you what to do right to get it to save Greece and interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u158	Are there any rules? Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u159	Of course there are. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u160	What are the rules? Is that a trillion rules?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u161	Don't get upset! Don't interrupt me! If it gives me time, I'll explain why you don't know. But listen, because here things are serious and you play with the fate of the country. Regarding the fact that your government is with the knife in the neck you're going to go through now and say 'the poor Tsipras who is pressing him by the strangers', what government of recent years has not been with the knife in the neck, Mr. Voutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u162	Oh, no! It was with the tooth knife!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u163	Was there any government since the day of the bankruptcy he did what he wanted? Oh, no! So don't play it, you poor bastards!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u164	No, it wasn't like that! It was against the people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u165	You've taken Greece and taken it to the rocks! Hey, we're not leaving you, sir! We're not leaving you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u166	Against the people was the knife and you know it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u167	Please, if any Minister wants to have the floor, ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u168	Madam President, what will happen now? We'll never end like this! We have to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u169	So go ahead with the process. However, Mr Georgiadis, because you have addressed the Bureau, this Parliament and Parliament are not under any blackmail. I hope that will please you and not regret you, as it seems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u170	To Mr. Tsipras, tell that and not to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u171	The next speaker is Mr George Galeos from the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u172	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to speak on this issue which is of particular concern to us of the Golden Dawn, which at present some of our fellow Members are not in the Chamber. I believe that some people serve certain interests, which do not want these people to be present in the debate and to give their opinion. And I think it's good to stop this. I wish tomorrow that we will not only have a debate, but that we also have a vote, that they should be present. Unless the D.A. on a single day forbids to come to discussions and double votes. I'm closing the parentheses. I'm coming to the bill. We've heard too many things about this bill. We heard it was rough. In my opinion it is not a clipboard - of course, it is not very detailed - and I fully agree that it is a first step. I hope the government takes the next steps. It has another positive one: it coordinates and directs all resources and all the money in one direction. We must recognise that. Of course, I have some reservations with regard to NGOs, because governments usually grant and finance NGOs, which, when they deduct their costs richly, the rest - if anything remains - give it to those who really need it. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It seems to me, of course, that none of the Members here found the slightest point of these bills. No one criticised this thing that really lacks the bill. And I will confine myself to the first bill on humanitarian aid. Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, but I have to tell you that the bill is not meant. And that's his vulnerability. Of course, you're going to tell me that we're going to give money, alleviate people from poverty, and that's our goal. I agree. This may be a strategic objective, but the objectives have two characteristics. They're specific and moderate. What are you gonna come and tell us in six months or a year here? We relieved the poor? And we'll tell you, "No, you didn't relieve them"? Are we going to speak in Parliament on this basis? You will allow me to give you an example. The numbers are random. What if your goal was to double family incomes by three or more people, who have an annual income of 6,000 euros and below? That would be a difficult target. I'm making it hard for you. I'll help you. We'll find it together. If you give these people the rent subsidy, you will give them more than EUR 2,700. If you add both PPC and some piles, you doubled their income. You could tell us specifically, that you want this thing. If you do, tell us. If not, don't tell us about random, creative, but unclear goals. There's a bad one. They think that if the targets are specific and moderate it is good for the opposition, because she will tell them "you did it there, you didn't do it". That's wrong. The objectives are for the government itself. You, Minister, if you do not achieve your goal and if you see that you are not well, how will you measure that and how will you know at any time, so that you yourself can take the necessary steps to achieve your goal at the end? How will you do that if it is not measured and if the target is not specific? But I'm going on at one last point. My colleague said earlier that you were asking for a white check. Indeed, at the core of the bill, in Article 5, you're asking for a white check. And we have no objections, nor do we doubt the main ministers who will make their decisions. The question is this: are we, as a Parliament, doing our job properly? Can we vote unclear laws? That's the point. That is why I told you earlier that if you had set targets that would have been specific and mitigated, you would not have needed ministerial decisions. By themselves, the objectives would be what it would be necessary. You'd try to achieve the goals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be a minute, Madam President. In conclusion, I would like to say that, as you quite rightly said, you have brought various bodies to Parliament. For the first time there were twenty and more. You have made various changes - as in Article 4 - and this is very important. But I would like you to tell me, remember what at least 80% of the operators told you? Do you remember what their request was and why you ignored it? The request from the fifteen or sixteen bodies was to define what "short poverty" means. This is laid down in Article 5. And you, Article 5, want to define it by ministerial decision. That's your weak spot. Finally, I hope - and I believe - that our fellow citizens will benefit somewhat from the bill. But if you make some changes in the direction I have told you, I think that the benefit will be even greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u173	Mrs Catherine Marcou has the floor. Mr Christos Katsotis will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with great interest we were all waiting for the first bill of co-determination of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks as a first sample of writing at both political and procedural level. We have already been disappointed on the second level. Public consultation was a pretext that lasted a few hours. This is the first sign of what will follow. The hundred-dollar bill will come as an emergency to create the government's accomplished before the Prime Minister's meeting with Ms. Merkel. You need to ask yourself whether the Denktash-type tactics will allow the country to pass the crisis unspeakable. Also, the amendments tabled - and then others come - are of little relevance to the other bill. Among them, there is also an amendment to NERIT for which another bill is pending. These procedural shortcomings could have no significance, since we were in fact in agreement - take note, in essence - and not in the types. In fact, the major issue is the exercise of social policy in a really difficult period for the country. First of all, let's agree on something. When we say'social policy' we mean an integrated system of incentives that keeps society in cohesion. We do not mean a redistribution without a plan, a programme and resources. As our rapporteur has said, over time, the resources allocated to social benefits have finally been unwanted, since they are distributed more in medium-income, rather than in really poor, and thus result in inequality reductions. According to ELSTAT from 2009 to 2013, the decline in the risk of poverty, following social transfers, varies, to 3% to 4%, from very low compared to the rest of Europe. If we do not want to continue with this policy, we need elements, evaluation, indicators of efficiency, quality in our interventions. We need to concentrate our knowledge from previous programmes and from the proposed ones, see what the developed countries and especially those by means of a method of exploring the means of living for the beneficiaries, with the aim of designing a more permanent mechanism for those most in need. Can this permanent social policy mechanism, among other things, be the minimum guaranteed income? We say he can. However, we must prioritise the evaluation of the pilot project, which we do not understand whether and when it will be done by whom. However, the bill does not describe a system of monitoring, monitoring and evaluating the distribution of benefits, a system which distinguishes those who really need from those who are in need of the bad motives and unfavourable announcements of the ANEL-SYRIZA conflict simply do not fulfil their obligations to the State, while they can clearly. Finally, today's bill, despite undeniable positive intentions, ends up being a rapid redistribution operation without resources, which I fear will have little effect on it. It can relieve occasionally some in need - and that is positive - but serious solution, perspective, will not give. The ANE - SYRIZA conference itself admits that this is a series of emergency measures. However, we have not heard at the four meetings of the committees what will be the regular and permanent measures. We do not say this either to reduce the size of the problems faced by thousands of our fellow citizens, nor to underestimate the conflict. We do not welcome the difficulties, nor do we expect failures in the policy of convergence to denounce it. I'll see you in a position to help. Instead of talking about the tampering, however, to put forward proposals on the problems, governance has led to public debate in an unfounded debate on dignity in general and vaguely. Defiance doesn't mean charity. Defiance means jobs and incomes for the unemployed. Conservatives do charity. The progressives are making reintegration programmes, positive active policies, actions aimed at social integration of our fellow citizens in need. Policies are needed to create jobs, investment by individuals and states. Recall that the investment law has been implemented since the beginning of 2014. And we read that the new Minister intends to change him again. A system of active policies for education, health, welfare, reintegration into the labour market and social fabric is needed. This is the real redistribution policy. As far as resources are concerned, we must agree with Europeans on a financing system for citizens in need of reintegration. These should be our negotiations with the partners rather than be the belligerents and the country is constantly isolated. And we should not use people's anger for political purposes. That's going to be back, and much faster than some people think. These are, therefore, broadly speaking, the directions to be followed by the ANE-SYRIZA coexistence if it really wants to give solutions. And it can be certain then that it will also have the support it needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u175	Thank you for keeping the exact time. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor. The Deputy Minister for Social Security will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Madam President. I will dwell on the first part of the bill that deals with taking immediate measures to tackle the humanitarian crisis. But how is the humanitarian crisis actually defined? One and a half million unemployed, where do you incorporate them? 90% that doesn't receive an unemployment benefit, how is it characterized? The self-employed put in a locker, they owe everywhere, where are they counted? Those who work in the elastic forms of work and their wages are bad - especially young people - who join? What is the undermining of pupils in primary and secondary education? At 400 euros, the family income? The 450, 600, 700, but also the 1000 what needs are they facing? The term 'humanist' comes to cover just the class causes of this poverty and impoverishment. Because not everyone lives in poverty and impoverishment. Capitalism gives birth to poverty. It can't be dealt with in its frame. "Social..." - says SYRIZA MP - "without poor and rich. That's what we want." This is not the case with the ownership of the means of production in the monopolies and business groups, with the indulgence of the wealth produced. It's known the evidence of the concentration of wealth. The five hundred five who held 60 billion became five hundred sixty - five to 70 billion. The millionaires have increased during the crisis. So the causes of the crisis, the causes of the deterioration of the state of the working class, the populaces are known and cannot be sought elsewhere than in the own capitalist system, whether this is followed by a restrictive policy supported by the New Democracy and the PASOK, or an expansionist policy supported by the SYRIZA, but also by other forces in the European Union. The attack, the war against the working class and the people, expresses precisely the interests and objectives of capital, as reflected in the various decisions, in the Treaties of the European Union and implemented by governments in all member countries. And, of course, poverty and impoverishment, as you know, exist in all the countries - members of the European Union. The loan contracts, signed to meet the needs of capital, were accompanied by memoranda with hundreds of implementing laws implementing the decisions of the European Union. Really, which ones do you intend to abolish? Nobody! You are all committed to these implementation, to continue to apply and, of course, to implement others with the reforms you have promised that you will be doing the next period in order to support the debt coverage, but also the capitalist recovery of the next period. The eruption of unemployment, the continuing reduction in wages and pensions, unpaid work, generalised flexibility or flexicurity, as has been baptized by the European Union, the abolition of fixed work with rights, the abolition of collective agreements, taxation and all kinds of carpeting, are just measures that have been taken to ensure that the capitalist crisis, debt, deficits, are charged to labour, to the populace, and, of course, with the consequences we are experiencing today. The policies that have been pursued and continue to be carried out at their centre have precisely the salvation and recovery of capital, the creation of a friendly environment for investors, the strengthening of their competitiveness. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues with the new bridge agreement, which will link the previous memorials with the next, with the continuation of reforms and the counsellor with the OECD, a body of great capital, known as the toolbox, which, of course, SYRIZA was then redeeming and many secular surnames said about this organization. Within the maturation of the SYRIZA Government - its adaptation to realism - the "government of social salvation", as you call it, inhibits social salvation. To recover the trust of the lenders, it freezes, it even bores the crumbs of the Thessaloniki program for this reason. For those who had a family income of over 700 euros, SYRIZA's executives said to argue about the realisticity of the programme, that there is not even 1 euro. This amount was supposed to be the limit of poverty. Now this threshold has gone to EUR 400 family income. Reinstatement of the minimum wage to EUR 751 and the institution of collective agreements has now become an ambition for reintroduction. That's how it's written. Isn't that right, Mr. Voutsi? The ambition has been restored! A strong commitment is also the 'no unilateral energy!'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some more time, Madam President. That is why the objections to the legislative work today, because there is a strong commitment to 'no unilateral action'. And they are a unilateral energy of 200 million, what you say about extreme poverty. "We will pay our obligations," the government says. And that comes to serve the amendment on the cash flow of insurance undertakings. To testify to the Bank of Greece for the creditors to get them. What does that mean to insurance funds? It is well known that even today unions of workers and pension organizations have shown a protest to the Ministry with the main request 'underside the hands of the members' contributions!'. Since time is over, we must say that monopolies and business groups are applauding, they support the policy pursued by the new conflict, because they now want precisely this mixture of policy, the end of austerity, the further state aid with warm money, but also the mere life for the people, as well as the maintenance of their achievements which are all the anti-government arsenal that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has committed itself to maintaining, tax exemptions, their further relief from insurance contributions and other privileges.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Katsotis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u178	To conclude, I say that the working class, the people have no other way than their organization in unions, in other bodies, in the organisation of the struggle to recover the losses, in order to claim the modern needs. They mustn't compromise with the crumbs. The wealth produced by the workers and the people is pocketed by a dragon of capitalists. We are addressing the majority of the people and we are calling it in association with the JRC in the fight for unilateral debt deletion, for the release of the European Union, for socialisation of the concentrated means of production, with the popular order in power. There's no other way philatelic than him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u179	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u180	Madam President, this is not the case! Not a single circle of speakers from all parties has been completed! What's that? It's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Constantinople, what exactly do you want? Tell me. I've given the floor to the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u182	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u183	All right, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor on a point of order. Wait a minute, Mr. Army, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u184	Until now, over the past few years, the procedure was not to interfere with at least the speeches of the rapporteurs and the first circle of speakers. Two Ministers have already intervened and will intervene thirdly. In other words, what the JRC says in your act is that the urban Parliament is not shut up, it simply listens to and endorses the government's decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u185	I would just like to say that I have asked the President for the floor because I have a health problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u186	Madam President, this is not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u187	Otherwise, I agree. I just asked for less time than the man I deserve, because I have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u188	Madam President, it's not personal for Mr. Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u189	I know it's not personal for Mr. Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u190	All MPs, all parliamentary representatives of the parties, except one...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Brutsi, you have taken the floor without giving it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u192	You're right, but it's something that we see is evolving wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u193	Well, we'll do good from now on. We're making a small concession for Mr. Army. I am sorry, but six Members had to speak and have spoken five without Minister's intervention. Allow me. Mr. Army, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wanted to say that I fully agree with and am covered by the position taken by my colleague Minister Nikos Voutsi a little while ago by statements from the so-called 'institutions', that they are unilateral actions by the Greek Government to table and debate in the Greek Parliament of two bills, one which is being discussed today, the humanitarian crisis and the settlement of debts in insurance funds. My colleague's statements give rise to democratic and patriotic sensitivity and dignity and cover me fully. I consider these statements made by such factors today to be completely improper, completely unjustified and, in practice, in practice and in fact, they are being blackmailed for the people and for the homeland. It cannot be considered a unilateral action to discuss in the Greek Parliament of the bill on the humanitarian crisis. So, what do those who made the statements today want? To continue in our country to have hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens hungry, to have no roof, to have no electricity? Is it unilateral energy to meet the needs of these people, whose memoranda led to absolute economic and social impoverishment, misery and despair? Can they speak of a unilateral action by the Greek Government, when it tables a bill on the regulation of late payments to the public and insurance funds, which has no budgetary costs at all, on the contrary, budgetary gains and is expected for the public and the insurance funds to collect billions of euros? Only the insurance funds, from the arrangements in which earlier regulations will be incorporated, will receive EUR 1,46 billion this year. Is this a unilateral energy? Is that a financial cost? What do they want? Don't collect public revenues? Don't collect revenues from our insurance funds? They want to drown our people and our country? Do they have a plan together with any decisions taken by the European Central Bank on credit suffocation, on blackmail in the government? Is that possible? All those who make these statements should know that our country is not Banana, that our country is not a protectorate, that our country is not a colony. It's a free, a sovereign, an independent country. We are a people with great history, with admirable culture, with heroic struggles for freedom, social justice, dignity, democracy. We demand that they respect the people's mandate in their vote, as our people also respect the choices of the other peoples. And we can't stand swinging our fingers. And we've said it a thousand times, and we repeat it. Some people have to understand it. The difference of democracy and dictatorship is that in democracy peoples vote, they choose programs of political forces that are exhibited to them by election and choose and choose governments to implement these programmes. We are sure and know that our people support the government's efforts to negotiate their own interests and their homeland hard. We are sure that it will continue and strengthen this support and its struggles for our efforts to respect its people's mandate and vote. We are sure and we know it - and they did it on Saturday with a demonstration in Germany - that there is solidarity among the peoples of Europe in our efforts. We know that when we fight to break austerity, we are also fighting for the other peoples of Europe. We consider that the political forces of the country - and those who are involved and those who are not involved in Parliament, but above all those who are involved - are of the highest democratic and patriotic duty to give a practical political response to these blackmails against the people and the country, by voting on both bills, which are the first to face the humanitarian crisis and the second to give a breath to the public, public revenue, to the insurance funds. It gives breathing conditions to small, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed and the possibility of breaking the cycle of austerity and recession and restarting our economy and our society. I think it is incomprehensible - and I agree with the second intervention by my colleague Nikos Voutsi, the Minister of the Interior, and all the co-rapporteurs - to listen to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, not just to smuggle - to wrestle literally - the arguments of the country's lenders and those of these circles, the sovereigns, in Germany and the Eurozone are seeking to blackmail the government, the people and our country, but to iron and say - how he said it, it is incredible! - "Good cologne"! What about the coliforms? What's that? So we are also insulting the memory of the '21 fighters who fought to have free home today, to have democracy today, to have this open confrontation of the political and social forces? Irony and the fighters of the '21s, that's as far as it is! I would like to say to him, but above all to those who make the statements and since in Greece they play the role of the fifth phalanx in these blackmails, that our government neither subjectes to blackmail nor fears nor retreats and the programme for which the Greek people have chosen it will implement it and implement it to the end. Now, with regard to the bill, Articles 30 and 31 are the responsibility of the portfolio for which I am responsible, it continues to cover for another year with health care for the underemployed who have completed the previous year fifty times, instead of a hundred years under the law. Our Government pledges that it will also bring an article, where the hundreds of articles that are conditional on insurance and health insurance will also do so by law of fifty. Secondly, it covers OAS members who have ceased their professional activity or made a declaration of inertial work in the DU, since their family income in the past three years for each year does not exceed EUR 12 000. Thirdly, it covers the uninsured over-ages and homosexuals who, unfortunately, have been cut off by the OGA from EUR 360, and they do not even have health care. There is the commitment of our Government - it has already been given, and the relevant legislation has been prepared and it will come to Parliament very quickly - to regain this little pension of the OGA so that at least these people can eat. Fourthly, we are extending the coverage for the long-term unemployed, since they have carried out in the insurance of any body in the past six hundred working days. Fifth, we cover with health care the workers at Scaramaga shipyards and the members of their families, as well as the Caravan Materials Company of Greece, regardless of the days of their insurance, without even a sign. We have already tabled an amendment for which I had committed myself during the committee meeting and we extend the health coverage on condition that neither the unemployed nor the uninsured in the Perama shipyards' zone that cannot be completed, because they have no job, nor a formal one per month, nor that of the Elefsis shipyard workers who have known that they have not been in work for fourteen months or have not been paid. We are committed - we have already made a project team together with the Ministry of Health - that very soon a joint ministerial decision will emerge, with which we will implement the fourth of the seven axes to address the humanitarian crisis that our programme in Thessaloniki said about the health coverage of the unemployed and the uninsured. It's a matter of days. We have gone too far and we will bring this joint ministerial decision to tackle the problem of humanitarian crisis and misery that has been created in our country, which are our compatriots who have no access to medicine, hospital, doctor. Finally, with Article 31, we are pleased with a request from school guards to extend for three months the opportunity to recognise as time of insurance the time they were working as school guards in work experience programmes so that this quarter can also be restored to work. Already, as far as you know, it is submitted in a few days' time and the relevant bill for bringing back to work and those of cleaners and teachers and those who were in insurance funds, but also other civil servants who were made redundant through the unconstitutional and inhumane institution of availability - redundancy. In addition, we are giving an extension - because it was with the knife in the neck of up to 28 February - to the subsidiary funds and to the single commissions on whether they would go to a private fund or join the EIB. We are therefore giving an extra four months opportunity to make a substantial dialogue with them and with the aim of abolishing Article 220, with which many problems have arisen both in themselves and in their funds. And these, as Mrs Fotou said - and I am ending with this, Madam President - are the first step, the first example of measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis. And it is clear that our commitment is true and with the support of the Greek people, the peoples of Europe and our international support we will be able to honour the people's mandate and implement the programme for which the Greek people have chosen us. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u195	We, too, thank the Minister, who only spoke ten minutes out of the eighteen at his disposal. Mr Constantinople has the floor and Mrs Eleni Alonitou will follow. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to wish all my fellow Members, especially the young 'good power' in this parliamentary term. Madam President, you announced a moment ago that the hundred-dollar bill was submitted to Parliament. We would like you to tell us whether it is the government's intention to testify to it or whether it has already been submitted. Because if he has come under the urgency procedure, we would like to know and have the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard Mr Skourletis say this morning that there are circles in Europe that blackmail - they have always blackmailed in Europe over the last five years - and want our country outside the euro. So I think that we are all here, from the standpoint of the Opposition, to condemn it and you from the government to do everything it takes through your election commitments and your programme to keep the country in the European Union and the euro. But there are politicians inside the country who are also talking about exiting the euro. Today a Member of Parliament told you in an interview with him: "SYRIZA's strategy has come to an end. The time has come when Greece and its partners must understand that they are flogging a dead horse. Instead, they must work together for an exit." It is also Mr Lapavitsas, who invites us to - invites you, the majority and is elected MP! - work with our partners on leaving the European Union, friend of Shoeble? Mr. Lapavitsa, Mr. Voutsi - as you did quite rightly earlier - and you denounced the voices that exist in the Civic Opposition or any other single voice - will you denounce him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u197	Why? It's a point of view! It's not random...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, in the bill you brought about the humanitarian crisis - with which you really wanted to show your support for a very large part of the population, which is going through very difficult - you have also brought amendments, which you yourself said you would in no way table in unrelated bills. And I ask you, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, about this, where the President said that you will vote tomorrow on whether this amendment is relevant or irrelevant to the bill. In fact, amendments setting out the Presidency of the Republic. There is a ministerial amendment, four Ministers for the Establishment of a Special Secretariat in the Presidency of the Republic, which behind this recommendation hides some post-call consultants. Do you think it needs and should be voted on in the humanitarian crisis plan? If you think so, vote for it. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the text of the agreement which was reached on the 20th day of the month because you have not brought it and I would like to trust the government of the country for what it has signed. But, ladies and gentlemen, there are your officials here who say different things and are in the same ministry. Yesterday, Mrs Valvaani said that the revenues from the ICTF would go to social policy. If you go to the Ministry of Finance's site, Mr. Varoufakis said to Eurogroup that "on the question of TEAD, we will not catch the goals that the previous government has told you since privatisations, but whatever is guaranteed, it will go to debt".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u199	Read a little below.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u200	Please, Mr. Leuchako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u201	Read a little below. It doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u202	Please. I ask Mr. Voutsi. There's a government representative here. Which one of them is telling the truth? And because you are talking about your sensitivity, you will allow me to tell you about some of the actions we have had - because, unfortunately, time ends - about people who had a real problem with electricity. I want to give you some information and the government is here again to deny it. Firstly, in the social tariff with a discount of up to 45%, six hundred and fifty thousand poor families have joined any one of which has not cut the current. The six hundred and fifty thousand families are about two million people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The eight thousand very poor households in our country, by decision of local commissions, municipalities and PPC have free power. If that's true, tell us. There is a 70% reduction in the flow of all solidarity agents, social, ecclesiastical, municipal sludges. That was something the previous government did. But I want to admit that the government's communication policy in recent years has not just changed a page, it has changed a book. We can't in any way get the government to touch. But, Minister, it is a reality and you have to tell the Greek people that what you are doing is positive, but there was one. Madam President, Minister, Mr Voutsi, I am ending with something you said in Thessaloniki. The prime Prime Minister - President of the then, an officer opposition - had declared that he would be able to redistribute from the NSRP 3 billion, 1.5 billion from the NSRP 2007-2013 and 1.5 billion from the NSRP 2014-2020. In fact, at that time, Mr Stathakis was talking about 'nature' when we told him that this was not possible. I shall now submit to the Minutes both of Mr Stathakis and of our own responses.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u203	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Stathakis is Minister today. Fifty-five days has not only made any redistribution of funds, but we are waiting for him in committee - and we have asked him - to come and tell us what is going on both with the previous NSRP 2007-2013, which will not make any redistribution for any process but also for the NSRP 2014-2020 and the fears that exist internally - for foreign affairs I am not talking about - so that no funds will be lost. I really hope you win the bet, not for your party but for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. I should like to inform you that the President of Parliament has already announced that the hundred-dollar bill has been tabled and will be discussed in plenary in urgent procedure. It's been filed and it's on the site of the House, and you're an old parliamentarian, Mr. Constantinople. Mrs Aylonitou has the floor and Mrs Plenipotis is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the historian of the future wants to sum up the situation of Greece at the beginning of 2015, after five memorial years, he will be able to resort briefly to the text of the first bill of cooperation of the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks of the draft "Consolidations on direct measures to counter the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the government and the governmental bodies and other provisions" that we are debating today. Because today's bill summarises in a few pages exactly where we are today and why. The first chapter of the bill provides that people must eat, they must be housed, they must have electricity. These were once self-evident. But since some people are no longer, we are legislating today. Of course, in the long term, we want these basic needs to be met by people's wages and pensions. But with the country in a deep recession, unemployment at 27% and wage and pension cuts today require special measures. And that's what today's bill stipulates. The planned benefits are at the level of the present possibilities that are not unlimited, but are delimiting our priorities. Our aim is that such arrangements should not be needed in the future. But as long as it takes, we'll do it. The second chapter works on how and why we got here. Money rivers introduced into the Treasury in the previous years from the indirect taxes we were all paying, but also from the direct taxes that we paid mainly for those who are employed and retired. Money rivers have been introduced into the country from the various European Union programmes. Money rivers have been invaded by loans that are plagued by us now. Really, where did all that money go? They went to misery, overpriced, useless expenses, and bills abroad. They have been imprisoned by the law on the responsibility of ministers. They're gone. They became invisible. They left behind a beastly public debt strangling the country. Then, then, our first care, which is the immediate measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, we are now making sure that it ends the tolerance and the suffering of corruption in Greece. The problem here is not limited to the undeniable fact that corruption exists in the country, but to the unheard of fact that our political system has come to see corruption as acceptable, even desirable. Even in the implementation of the memorandums corruption has been treated as something that should be protected against the people's income sacrificed without second thought. No negotiation on the debt, no social benefit plans and no legislative regulation on any thing will give a solution to the problems of the country if corruption is not effectively fought. The experience of this matter so far shows us that despite the existence of the relevant agencies and laws, the corruption cases that had political coverage have always been found in the system in order to pierce until they have been registered. By subscribing all the relevant anti-corruption services to the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption, which is now being recommended, it is now being sought that these no longer exist, that there is no administrative confusion and that political responsibilities be clear. Today's bill therefore catches the top and bottom of the country's problem. It touches on the source of problems, corruption and the worst consequence of corruption, the humanitarian crisis. Let's not be fooled. If the first one is not solved, it will not be possible to finalise the second one. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because here too much has been said about the minimum guaranteed income, I would say hypocritically, you care very much about it, when you yourself have not made sure you put within the budget one euro for a cost of 1.5 billion. You also speak and say that what is now being prepared - the humanitarian crisis bill - 'we would do so because we are in full consultation with the European support funds'. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, couldn't you? Didn't you make it? You tried, but you didn't find any sense? How did you manage not to absorb 1% of these European support funds that belong to us? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, citizens need support now, urgently. They need feeding, they need food, they need electricity. So as a government, as a government chosen by the Greek people on the 25th of January, we come to cover this need, as well, first of all, under any unfavourable circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou. Mrs Iro's speech is on the agenda, and then the Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr. Harris Theocharis, immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I would like to highlight three points in relation to the humanitarian crisis bill and the general symbolism it has. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The first point, which is one way or another, is what it talks about the causes of the humanitarian crisis. We all know that it did not rain a humanitarian crisis, not a god cursed us, nor are we just talking about unpunished people, not just a bad word, but a snooping of reality. The stones know her, too. All of this is the result of policies which have been pursued in Greece and, by extension, in Europe. The second point is who supported and strengthened this crisis. An entire propaganda machine, starting in Maximos, reaching the channels, tried to convince that this road is a one-way road to the rescue of the country. Which country did they mean salvation? In the country of riches that become richer and poorer. A stone, a stone built this country and reached it in a country with two and a half million people below the poverty line and a half million unemployed. They deserve congratulations, of course, because the figures seem to have done their job well. There is also another category of supposedly anti-immemorial forces that strengthened the crisis at all levels, such as the Golden Dawn, which says that it also agrees that there is a humanitarian crisis and we have to deal with it. Its involvement with the humanitarian crisis was of course the so-called aggregations only for Greeks and canals, while members at the same time engaged in murderous attacks on workers and trade unions in Perama, because they were disturbed, as were the shipowners who were disturbed by people's claims for jobs and decent wages. And the third point is who will face this crisis. So there comes a government that changes the dominant narrative and the rhetoric of a one-way road, which proves that there is another way and another way and starts to walk it by making social needs laws, even though the means it currently has are poor. This is a reversal to the data so far, not because this bill solves the problems - it has also been mentioned by others - but because it starts trying to solve them, and above all because it has changed its sign so far, a policy that has been pursued. So the parties who participated in the Memorandum Governments, and not only do they vote in good faith, as Mr Adonis Georgiadis said, the bill and this is still a victory for this government and proof of a hegemony that we will take on it - a step primarily with society. He did not dare not vote on a certain relief proposed by the government for the victims of their policies, and this is a first step and a good signal. I do not want to say about the criticism you are making of these crumbs. I do not believe that this approach leads anywhere, and I do not believe that the distance from social reality that is tortured daily for people and from a high point of view only leads to ideology. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is legislating and must continue with even greater areas in its policy for the benefit of the people below, for it is precisely the government that the Greek people have chosen with their vote and the government that supported it and supported it much more than the Greek society has voted for it. So our policy within the country determines this contract and no one else is entitled to decide, instead of us, which bills will be submitted and what content and even if they were well-meaning, they will learn. The testimony of bills that are trying to deal with the absolute lack of any justice in this country for the workers, for the unemployed, for the poor, for the people who are being tested daily is a conflict with the course so far and will also appear in the next bills on matters of democracy, employment and others. We therefore welcome the first legislative initiative of this government and you must be sure and sure that our relationship with the Greek people - and I refer to those who are suffering and struggling for years now - will constantly strengthen and be the relationship of confidence that has to exist between people and those who have chosen to represent them. And those who ask whether there is social justice within capitalism, of course answering that there is no, let them wonder whether there is any way of creating the conditions for another example for all of Europe, this example that is being built in Greece today with the left government and which everyone wants to break, precisely why it proves that the system of austerity, memorials and neoliberal politics is not a one-way path. Finally, as you well know, this system has embraced corruption and it is important that in this bill there is the signal that this symptom of this policy will also be addressed. It is thus implemented, as our rapporteur has said, as the Minister has said, the government's commitment to absolute and unnegotiable transparency in economic sizes and public-private contracts and criminal sanctions in cases of corruption. Divided and multi-level services could not implement this project, which was also a social demand. So we start with this humanitarian crisis bill, but also with the next one, including workers to Easter, fighting and believing that we will manage, even though we are all opposed to neoliberalism, urban policies, corruption, creditors, channels, 20 a.m. and domestic interests with their representatives and within Parliament. But with us, it's the greatest power. And that is the popular and social mobilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u209	The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Theocharis speaks for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in Potami we have been asking for a long time to rule. It's been 50 days and we've started. We're beginning to fear it was better when you didn't rule the first 50 days. Two policies in every department. That is what we see so far. Two policies in immigration, now they're opening, now they're closing. But Mr Varoufakis says in the Eurogroup, signing and making an agreement that we welcomed on 20 February and we actively supported, but Mrs Valavani said yesterday. The purpose of the HICP is changed, not as the country's Minister of Finance had said and pledged to his counterparts. Revenue from the GDR does not go in favour of debt relief, go in favour of strengthening social security. It's a polite cause, nobody says otherwise. But that's another thing to say, and the next day we can undo it. The credibility of the government and the parties that support it is important - you have to understand it - it is not a game. Mr. Tsipras finally sees Mrs. Merkel. We said he should have done it earlier. Even now it won't be us calling him a mercanizer. We'll support him. We wish and everything else we can do when he goes to Germany, we will be close to him. Mr Varoufakis says that he must not say the word 'cut' and he has promised. The President of the Parliament shall announce a committee recommendation in accordance with Rule 49 for the debts and unsatisfactory debts. But the government says, but the Bureau says. We have two policies. Fortunately, there may be some compassion there, because with wisdom the President of Parliament used Rule 49 to make this committee. So much he believes in burdensome and shameful debt. Rule 49 - I would remind you - sets out committees to promote the international cooperation of the Parliament with the European Parliament, the parliaments of the other countries and the international organisations. What is this cooperation exactly? We will propose to her, if she wants to help her, that she appoint the committee according to 49c, perhaps it is better, Friendship Parliamentary Groups for this shameful debt. Of course, the two articles differ. The committee shall be set up directly by the Chair, the latter shall require a written request by Members. We are prepared to make the written application to help it. I think we should try to be a little more serious about what we are trying to achieve. The Greek people voted for you to change the priorities, to get the money out of here and get it there, to get it out of corruption and give it to the world, get it from the rich and redistribute it for the poor. Not to say more one day and more next. We're with you when you're trustworthy, not when you're not. We have the first bills. The first bills, looking at them, are rough. Good or bad, it's rough, you have to understand. Nobody says they don't deal with serious issues. We know that, and we agree with the ministers who import it. These are very serious issues and the social crisis needs to be addressed. But when you bring the ERT bill, for example, you cannot reopen licenses by putting them with the canals. The hard things to leave for later. Let's look at the hard stuff and we'll support it. Here they are, and we're waiting for them. These things we don't see. We're looking at them easy. In the bill, what you brought about the humanitarian crisis, there is a lack of the humanitarian crisis. He's on the right, on the left. He's on the right because he doesn't tell that money the little he gives where he's going to get it from. He doesn't say. Say, for example, 'with it and this action we will take this money'. And he's on the left, too, because he's just giving it a little bit. It gives 200 million when even the social dividend, which was a drop in the ocean, was 450 million last year, unfortunately. This is because five articles at thirty-seven, thirty-eight, forty - we will see how far they will come out of the amendments - deal with the humanitarian crisis. He does because you give 15 euros a month, half euros a day, for the current, when Mr. Fotopoulos took 6 euros a day. Ask how he did it. He knew more than that. Ask his chief minister, who gives these kind of increases to PPC, but he shouts when PPC increases power. There are relations between these two. As they say, better young and rich than poor and old. Obviously that's what I want, too. It's not like that, though. The previous government understood it very painful. You do not rule with 'yes', you rule with 'no', with how many and what's not' you say. That's what they make government. We need to look at 'no'. You brought a bill that he's giving without getting somewhere. Some limits have to be put to costs too. I will now say more in relation to the specific provisions of the bill. Some limits must be placed on expenditure in the first articles relating to the humanitarian crisis, so that the CSMs - the ministerial decisions - authorizing ministers to set the criteria, are not unconstitutional. It says that the Scientific Service of the Parliament cannot be considered as relevant criteria. If they go through some limits, even that thing gets tempered. There'll be problems. We talked about it in committee too. We give 15 euros power, but you have to pay 35 euros to get the power and pay the ERT and all the rest. Try to give a solution to this. You are feeding, but not on the social demand that is institutionalised. You're giving her a bank card. That's better and you really need to do it. But it'll take time. He won't give a solution right away. I estimate that it will take at least six months to enable it to function properly, so that it can be provided with the feeding card. I wish it would be sooner. Only three months will the CIA take you. If that happens as I say, from EUR 200 million, it may not even reach EUR 80 million in the world. I hope that more will be achieved, and that is where we will be applauding it. Repeat for the last time: Evaluate this year the minimum guaranteed income, all that can give a coherent response to the phenomenon of extreme poverty. That's all. You blame the previous government for not enrolling funds this year in the budget for the minimum guaranteed income. You're doing good! Restart it from 1-1-2016. You put the funds in the next budget. Close the holes with the provisions you say. If you do that, then we understand that you have a particular plan. I shall say a few words about Chapter Two: National Coordinator against Corruption. We have here and the Minister in charge. There is indeed a need to target operational actions and an institution that will make real coordination. That is, I would say, a 'upgrade' for the ministries, but it leads to a tighter embrace with the government. This is a disadvantage in relation to the former institution, the National Coordinator against corruption, which is an institution praised by the European Union and well. We are therefore making concrete proposals to you. We talked about it in committee too. They should also be heard in plenary. So I told you in committee and we did not agree at that time, Minister, that you should place the National Plan against Corruption on the responsibilities. Don't let go. It is now written by the Scientific Council. Responsibility for the abolition of the National Coordinator is lost and it is not the explicit responsibility of the General Secretariat. Put it on. It's your job.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u211	There's this plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u212	Read the report of the Scientific Council. It says so. The plan is there now. At some point, the plan is being abolished. It's getting old. You need to update it. You must have the power. That's what we're telling you. We're not saying anything else. Also, this hug that brings the Coordinator against Corruption and the Minister closer to the government and the Prime Minister should in some way be balanced. Give the Citizens' Counsel to prepare a national report on the state of the fight against corruption and submit it to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency in the House. This will bring about a balance and the Minister will have greater accountability, because his position is very sensitive. I'll say a few more words and I'll finish. Firstly, with KISYP we have new structures, directly competitive with the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, we have already seen the first signs of competition between these two economic positions. We must not add new competition to the services. Thirty seats are created here, fifteen employees from the private sector. We should not create more problems than we have. Other arrangements are also made in the bill. I will not go into them any more. I'll only talk about two. After our criticism you have legally improved the provisions for volunteers. You have set criteria - and we welcome this - to be distinguished scientists or specialists. That's right and good for you. But we need to be careful because there are more missing. There is no limit to their number and there is no incompatibility. Will anyone - not you, the next government - be able to hire a volunteer scientific doctor who has a clinic to the Minister of Health? Would he be able to hire a scientist, a construction company, to the Minister of Transport? Insert, where appropriate, the same provisions as apply to the incompatibilities and the limit. As far as the Deputys are concerned, you have promised - the Minister is missing - that we do not have Deputys together with the Generals and that you did bring a legislative improvement. I have a feeling she's sketchy. Look at me, at least, it seems paradoxical to me that the Minister cannot have a Deputy, has only a general one, but the Deputy Minister has the right to have both and General and Deputy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u213	It's coming back. We've said it ten times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u214	As it is written, the positions of the Deputys are not recommended to the Minister, so they only remain with the Secretary-General, but they are recommended to the Deputy Minister, who also has a Secretary-General. So that creates a problem. Take the goodwill. If I'm wrong, I'll admit it. But I have the feeling that I'm right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Mr Ilias Kamaeros has the floor, and then Mr Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please excuse me for some confusion, which you will certainly see, with what I have heard so long in the Chamber. Where should I start? From Mr. Georgiadis? He dared and told us he was in danger of closing a hospital in Thessaloniki. Let's come and see how many hospitals are closing in our area in the Dodecanese. Let him come to the hospital in Kos, which works with military doctors. Let's go to the islands that don't have a rural doctor, and every 15 days someone gets seconded and changes every 15 days. Who did all this? Who was the Minister? Who are those responsible for the situation of the hospitals? We are being prosecuted and renounced by our Ministers that they have signed an agreement not to be taken by any unilateral actions. Who are we being prosecuted by? Those who had accepted unilateral actions only by lenders and who simply signed what they were recommended. I hear, on the other hand, from the old socialist party that we are only looking after a hundred and fifty thousand people for both power and food, and that we should have for five hundred thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u217	Current for sixty-five thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u218	Okay. However, it is very far from the one and a half million unemployed who you have created and the millions of poor people you have created. I don't understand. Total confusion. Both of us are told that our Minister told us that "we will unite the stone in order to be able to succeed". Uh, of course, what about you, who only know how to stir people? That's what you've been doing for so long. You're the only people you've got. Look, I won't say much. I will only refer to one matter of urgency - there has been a debate and questions, as 'they will come bills, they will not come, they will be in accordance with the urgency procedure, etc.' - and I've even seen a blockage of hours on this subject. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, all this is urgent. The world can't wait. People are dying. Every hour that passes, we have suicides, they close shops, they create unemployed. They can't wait for all of this. If it is not urgent, what is it? What you have permanently voted on, the reductions in wages, pensions and carpets not only as an emergency but also with legislative acts? I wouldn't talk about all this because many people say it, we've been watching it all day. I'll finish with a report. If I wanted to talk, it was just to put a note on our islands. Because I think it was an opportunity in this bill for the humanitarian crisis to go through two, three issues on the islands. I know it's very difficult. I've had a little talk with the Minister. If some of them cannot pass through, we must certainly have a special debate on the islands, and indeed - I propose - a special bill for the small islands to deal with their problems. Because if we are talking about a humanitarian crisis and say that our fellow people need food, power and shelter, I must tell you that for some of our fellow people who live in certain areas and especially on these small islands they are not enough. Let me say that they have food and shelter both in prisons and in the islands - do not think - they are like prisons. There are serious problems. It could, for example, pass the electricity issue in the bill. Why, in some islands where we have forty inhabitants, which we have ten inhabitants, are not entitled to have free electricity? You know we should see the demographic problem. That is why I suggested that we should make a special bill for the smaller islands. Slowly they'll be gone and devastated, we'll have desertification of the islands. There's an island that has a student, a child. There is an island that has four students and must, for example, be transferred from the Arquis to Agathonisi. And here the bill talks about mileage distances for the transfer of students. It speaks of the law on insurance - although we could say many examples of the islands - and of fifty marks. Tell me what kind of thing one will do on an island of ten inhabitants or forty inhabitants or eighty inhabitants. These people on these islands shouldn't they have free insurance? And not only free insurance, but free transport and a whole range of other incentives, which I propose and which the government will take seriously. We have to deal with and make a special bill 'Incentives for the retention of residents in the small islands'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Cameroon. Mr Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u220	I thank Mr. Karathanasopoulos for giving me his turn. Let's start with the bill. This bill comes at a time when the country is living conditions of economic suffocation. And it comes to address an issue that concerns an important part of society, which has been experiencing the policies of the memorandum over the past five years. Is he responding to the crisis as a whole? Oh, no. Does it solve the problems of all the subordinate classes that have experienced this social catastrophe in the last five years? Oh, no. It is, however, a step which shows another example. It is a step, which shows that a coordinate society can walk in a different way. And it is a step that is taking place today and not with the expectation of the Monday Presence, where everything will be solved by magic. It is a step that responds to daily needs of people who live without power, without shelter and without food. It's not everything. In a bill, we have not solved the problem of the crisis over the last five years. It is important, however, that this bill is of major political and symbolic importance for three specific reasons. The first reason is that even the Memorandum parties recognize the failure of the policies of austerity worldwide both in Greece and in Europe. They recognize, in other words, that their policies have created a social disaster. They admit it even here in the Chamber and the New Democracy and the PASOK that these policies pushed a part of society into extreme poverty. And that's our victory. Because so far with the success story and the exit from the crisis, you've been admitting nothing. All those people you hid underneath the carpet. Today, then, the bill comes and forces you to see reality in the face. And not just you, but Europe too. The humanitarian crisis - that is the second reason - is now entering into legislation. And that's important to us again. Because we can now, with other data, claim from the European Union justice for the policies that have created this social crisis. And we can now say in the European Union that fundamental social and human rights have been violated over the last five years, such as access to health, access to energy, access to education, access to food, access to housing. And you can't be proud of a country that has people eating from garbage. You shouldn't even laugh when we say these things. You should not even come and support what you are supporting here today to say that you are in a European country of the 21st century. But the third reason for me is the most important. Here is a breach in neoliberal logic. For neoliberal logic there is no society, there are people fighting alone and losing. And for that, there is no help at all. So this bill opens a path and says that the orderly state is facing subordinate classes organized because it recognizes them as having problems. Neoliberal policy says that social destruction is a natural phenomenon and those who have been defeated in an inhuman competition are forced to suffer the consequences. So we do not admit that. We do not support a jungle society. We do not support a competition society where the economic and socially weak should be constantly on the canvass. We tell society to stand up, stand up and claim what it deserves, but what it should have for many years of prosperity that have lived for the past twenty years. So that logic has brought us a break in neoliberal logic and says that when coordinates of social classes they can claim things, then they succeed. I want to finish with Mr. Costello, not Elvis, the singer, Abbott, the co-player in movies. A Mr. Costello told us that this bill is a unilateral energy, and we'd better freeze it. So listen well - although the Members of the New Democracy are not here most - the following: between the European Union, Deutsche Bank and the European and Greek elites and between the people who live in extreme poverty and the humanitarian crisis, we dogmatically and extremistly dogmatically are in favour of the latter. Amongst, then, the subordinate classes and those who have wealth and hold him, we are extremistly dogmatic with the subordinate classes. If that is what Mr Costello thinks of as a unilateral action, I am sorry, but we will take him to unilateral action. From now on, the bills that will come will be unilateral actions. If he can't get used to it, he's fine to quit. Because in this Europe that we are looking forward to living in societies and people will be above money, not banks and shipowners. With this logic, we do not expect socialism, but we build it on a daily basis with examples that we give society and an effort to breathe at last, so that it can inspire and move forward. We are not waiting for Monday's presence, we are experiencing it and we are creating it today. With this, then, we are voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, before I refer to the bill, to denounce on behalf of the JRC the Golden Dawn Act of tabling a roll-call vote, a roll-call vote - caricature, once the bill is voted at first. Why is he doing this? It's nothing but a communal trick. It's a bad show he wants to set up. And from this point of view, let some people think about this, let some or some of the majority, who have opened up a very dangerous debate in the past, creating objective bridges of communication and conciliation with the Golden Dawn, but also a stop to the criminalisation of the Golden Dawn, this Nazi organisation. And from this point of view, developments will be a good example of some. I now come to the bill we are discussing. I shall not go into the procedural matters, they have dealt with the debate quite a bit, as to how the debate can be organised. But let's talk about the bill. We also caused the government to answer the basic question of who is to blame for poverty and impoverishment, because the government claims it wants to deal with it. Sure. However, in order to be effective in dealing with poverty and impoverishment, you must identify and who is responsible and the government claims that it is responsible for the Memorandum policies. Of course! Memorandum policies, the laws and measures which have led to a reduction in wages, pensions, the overthrowing of labour relations, the increase in unemployment, the increase in taxation. Yes, there is, but at least since that is what it is, why don't you bring a law to abolish all the implementing laws, which have led to widespread popular strata of poverty and impoverishment? Do it, then, with a law all these laws. But you don't do that either. But that's all it is? If that was all the fault, then it should have been a phenomenon that only ends in Greece or, well, in the African and Asian countries. But that's not the way it is. Poverty, unemployment and impoverishment characterises all capitalist economies and the more developed ones. The evidence is indisputable. For example, the United States of America is an economy in development, the most powerful economic center of imperialism. What's wrong with him? Based on the data of the International Monetary Fund, it has fifty million who live below the poverty line and 25% of children in the United States are at this level, that is, living below the poverty line. Uninsured in 2013 were forty - three million and with aggregations of charity living in the United States forty - six million. It is hard to bring them over thirty - two million. So where? In the metropolis of capitalism! But in the European Union too, the evidence is that it is a hundred and twenty-four million - with moderate calculations, as poverty in the European Union is considered and recorded - at the same time as other elements, as presented in Davos, say that the wealth of 1% of the world population increased. In other words, the richest, this 1% of the rich, even increased its assets, reaching 50% of the world's wealth, while, on the contrary, 80% of those on the pyramid are only going through 5% of the world's wealth. Worldwide, then, there is an increase in social inequalities. Who is responsible for this exacerbation of social inequalities? Incompetent governments, or is it the capitalist system itself, which, by its role and its character, reproduces the inequality of socialism and exacerbates it even more, concentrating social wealth on less and less hands? That's the problem. This is the cause of the problem. We have no delusion and neither denounce SYRIZA that he has come to overthrow the capitalist system. That's not how SYRIZA intended to overthrow the capitalist system. It adapts to the capitalist system and tries to vomit it. But we said "brothers, if you want to take some measures to relieve the most impoverished layers, limit at least the action of business groups, capitalists, capitalists and get them to pay something for this thing". You don't even do that! Not that you are not building socialism - with these wordings science raises its hands up - but you are not even limiting the action of the capitalists. Did you make shipowners a special contribution to pay to give money to the most impoverished populace layers? Did you tell the magnificines, the bankers, the big dealers that I make an emergency contribution to pay this package, as you call it, which relieves populace? Oh, no. Where are you going to do all this? By making some arrangements within the budget, which, at the bottom of the script, the state budget is financed by the taxation of the populace. People pay taxes. They are not paid either by the shipowners or by the industrialists or by anyone else. Or they're paying little. You don't even do that! You were afraid to touch them. And not only did you fear to touch them, but you are also taking measures and planning and negotiating issues that favour the activity of business groups in the name of accelerating capitalist recovery. That's what you want to do. From this point of view, we are clearly saying that the SYRIZA Government is not doing anything else on the substance of the matter than the previous governments. It negotiates hard with the institutions, the troika, the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, but this is not about measures to alleviate the people's strands, and much more about restoring the loss and satisfying the people's needs, that is, it is not on behalf of the people, but is negotiating on behalf of capital. In fact, this negotiation is part of a more comprehensive negotiation between the imperialist centres. And the negotiation has to do with the dispute, in essence, between the United States of America and the European Union, a dispute in which the Americans want to lower Germany's role at European Union level. It is a dispute between the currencies, in the name of the Transatlantic Trade Agreement, which the Germans want to impose and resist, in the name of who will control the pipelines, who will be dominant and who will have the upper hand in exploiting the wealthy production sources, the energy and the paths. In this context, the negotiation by SYRIZA and not by a different level of discussion that wants to come into conflict, which wants to break, which wants to shape the conditions for reversal with the European Union - which has become a twilight alliance - with the Eurozone and the other imperialist centres. That is why we say that the whole debate, which is taking place, regardless of what result it will lead to, whether there will be compromise and implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding or whether it will be any other option, will be in an anti-popular direction. Why? Because it is not in the mood and not only is it not in the mood, it does not even have in the field of visualisation to collide with the capitalists, to collide with the business groups, but it negotiates how a more favourable ground will be formed to accelerate capitalist economic activity and through this process it makes use of the legislative framework established by the Memorandumary Laws and the labour market and the insurance system. He won't - he says - unilateral actions. He wants to find money through the internal lending he makes on the one hand to pay off the lenders, but at the same time also has a coin to finance the capitalists, capitalists, new investment and to expand even further the exploitation of the working class. In this respect, then, we say that all you are doing is an effort in which the measures you have announced are inconsistent with the reality of the wide-ranging populaces. It has nothing to do with it, it is crumbs and even crumbs that do not even meet the level of your commitments in Thessaloniki. You have still limited this package. We're not telling the rest of the four measures you haven't announced yet. We're talking about three meters. You're cut. In other words, you have tired of these crumbs of Thessaloniki, so that you can pay the lenders - which is why you have tired them - and to serve the International Monetary Fund and the other loan obligations of Greece. And more so, you have invented this logic of the humanitarian crisis, which is a falsely written logic, a logic that masks the class character of the crisis and the consequences it has on workers. And within this framework of the so-called humanitarian crisis, you are also making a new distinction between absolute poverty - EUR 400, and something is absolute poverty for a four-member family - and the rest of the poor. What are you doing on the substance of this logic? You're redistributing poverty into wider populaces and calling on the fewer poor to pay for most of the poor. For this very reason, we say that we cannot vote in principle on your bill and on what concerns it. I now come to a second point, because there is a second topic. There are provisions for the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption. We were criticised by the Minister and heard the criticism. We welcome it. But I insist, Minister. First of all, can't you think of what? That we are dealing with a capitalist system that by its very nature is profitable, so unjust, deeply classic. And from this point of view, there is a legislative framework that legalises capitalist property, which legalises capitalist exploitation. Which legalizes what? That socially produced wealth is cured by direct producers, by capitalists. This is a stealing, but it is legal in capitalism. And there is a huge legislative framework that gives incentives, which gives new subsidies, which gives new exemptions to capitalists, in the name of capitalist development. It is not only enough that they are exploited but also a part of this wealth taken by the workers that the capitalist state is distracting it to give it back to the capitalists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, you have a little patience. I will finish my thoughts, because it is essential. So there is this legal framework that legalises them and of course there are other than this legal framework and acts, those that say illegally, those that say corruption abuses, but which are the result of a slap between economic and political power. You said, of course, not only in capitalism itself. You said he was in socialism too. What do we say? I say this, Minister, so it doesn't seem like we want to evade. What do you say? That such phenomena appeared in socialism, at the time when socialist construction laws were called into question...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u223	Stalin!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u224	...and in their place there were the capitalist logics that led from the result and the overthrow of the socialist system. In this context, however, we do not fly along with the old and the child and draw conclusions. And the second element of this debate that needs to be considered is that historically the case of combating fraud and corruption has been exploited for reactionary turns in the civil system. Italy's example in the early 1990s is very revealing. I don't do any parallels with today. What did we have out there? We had the prosecutors who wanted to fight corruption. Where did Italy's political system go? He reacted and made Berlusconies. But mafia and corruption in Italy continue. Secondly, in the name of dealing with corruption, the European Union is building a legal framework and in the name of combating political money that it wants to criminalise and restrict the action of radical parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you're finishing up. It's already too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u226	So we, Minister, of course say to defend your work, of course, to tackle corruption, but we are very afraid that, in the name of combating corruption, in the name of combating these phenomena, they will be legitimized in popular consciousness - and this will seek - anti-grassroots measures. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Petrakos has the floor. Then Mr. Lappas will speak. Here, Mr. Petrako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, my dear colleague, Mr Carathanasopoulos, unfortunately, the few that you call them "fly" are in need of tens of thousands of our fellow people. I would like to remind you that the song of EAM in his first verse says: “HAM saved us from hunger, will save us from slavery too”.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u229	This isn't about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u230	Secondly, through this bill and with what the Minister said, we move on to pay those who did not pay these years and taxed their money abroad. So, we're not afraid of them either. No one is afraid. We are also not afraid of the threats of lenders. Our response to the disastrous challenge of lenders is the deposit of the second bill, which will be passed this week and which is coming to regulate the debts of small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed in taxation and the insurance funds. The first answer is the adoption of this draft law on the humanitarian crisis and the fight against corruption. It will be followed by a third and fourth and a fifth bill - a response, such as the bill for the protection of first residence, the red loans, the reopening of the ERT, the reintegration of illegally dismissed officials and, in total, the implementation of our programme that we committed to the Greek people and the Greek Parliament. Let Mr Symble and Mr Costello also understand that there were elections in Greece and the people with their vote ended the memorial. The Government of National and Social Rescue of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks will implement the program with which the Greek Parliament took a vote of confidence. "No step back" said in his interview yesterday, the President of the Government, Alexis Tsipras. So let everyone decide. This government will not be subjected to the extreme austerity blackmailers. The austerity imposed by the Memorandum Governments has led to the humanitarian crisis. The memorials they imposed led to social destruction. So their courage, to hold it for those to whom they can impose their wills. We're not blackmailing. It's over and out. One-sided actions, it's Mr. Costello's nerve. Unilateral actions are the blackmail of Mr. Draghi. Unilateral energy is Mr Shoeble's statements. We know their target. It is to retreat the Greek Government and go on the road to memorials. The Greek people and their Government, however, will no longer tolerate the continuing policy of austerity and impoverishment that the neoliberal elite of the European Union thinks can continue to impose. Greece is not a protectorate. That is why we also call on the Greek people to react massively and racingly and to put their mark on positive developments and progressive roads that respond to both the interests of the Greek and European peoples. But we also call on the Members of all the parties to vote in favour of today's bill and next week to give a practical response to the fragmentation of the blackmailers and to join with the will of the Greek people. It is regrettable, however, that there should be MPs from New Democracy and Potami, who essentially justify the extortion of creditors. However, the Greek people judge, as they judged and will judge even more severely in their future and their judgment will be cruel to all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions that this bill will solve all the problems created by the hard memorandum policies but are the first and absolutely necessary measures to address the needs of people who are below the limits of extreme poverty. We are proposing measures of immediate need for feeding, housing, power supply and following for free movement for the long-term unemployed in public transport. It is a bill progressive, which is on the way to today's need for people who cannot live. It's a part of what we're committed to in the Thessaloniki program. With this programme, there is an attempt to ensure the basic social rights of vulnerable groups, to ensure the gradual reintegration of people in extreme poverty and to partly increase their purchasing capacity with the second bill. The opposition claims that these measures already exist. If these measures exist, how have poverty, homeless people, participaters in the masses, people going to social grocery stores? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. How has the number of households living without electricity increased, without heating, without being able to meet their basic nutritional needs? You ask us that we do not implement the entire programme of Thessaloniki in forty days, you who have given land and water to the lenders. There's no more hypocrisy. When you criticized the new government, you better criticise yourself and Mr. Hardouvelis, who was advertising the stability of the economy, but at the same time sent his money abroad and said he was afraid to lose it in the country. Well, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the most memorial party in which the Potami emerges, we are not going to apologise to what you are saying. We apologise to the Greek people and we are slowly implementing the programme we are committed to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Petrakos. Mr. Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the thread from where Christos Karagiannides left it, and I would like to say to Mr Georgiadis, a representative of the New Democracy and to the friends of the New Democracy that your political criticism, at best, is seen as a political joke, in the worst case as a political hurricane. Because the Greek people exceeded the 25th of January, dear friends. I must remind you what Heraklitos said, that the people more than the fire must erase the envy. And this hurricane was erased on January 25th. On the humanitarian crisis, I have two things to say. Firstly, for the first time a bill, a text of law, considers dignity, i.e. the value of man, as enshrined in Article 2(1) of the Constitution, as a word on a legislative text for the first time. Secondly, in the context of any compromise with the European partners, the humanitarian crisis will now be evaluated on an annual basis and we hope for the benefit of society and the Greek people. That is what I am ending with the issue of the humanitarian crisis. What Christos Karayannides did not say shows a picture, my friends, which reminds me of what Sophocles said in ancient Athens, that where the state is poor, 99% are poor and a handful rich. In particular, he says to his "Antigone": "When the state is unhappy, those who declare and live as rich and happy are his enemies". I do not want to say anything else about the humanitarian crisis, and the notion was understood. Corruption. While the humanitarian crisis dissolves the social fabric, impoverishes citizens and inactivates state structures, corruption has spread its grey veil to the state and society by glamorizing everything. While we have a violent bankruptcy of the Greek people, some - merciful, of course - have had a party of corruption and interlocutory by transforming political and social life into a cancerous melanoma which is rapidly spreading into the body of society and the state. Humanitarian crisis and corruption attempted to say that they were two things incompatible and poorly conducive to and condone in a single bill. They're making a big mistake. They are relevant and I would say, in response to the friends of the JRC, that their relationship is scientifically dialectical. They have cause and cause. The cause is corruption. The cause, the result, is the humanitarian crisis, poverty, impoverishment, and societal pain. This second, the cause, we will eliminate it by fighting the cause of corruption. The Greek people are tortured by the humanitarian crisis. The consequences of corruption are tragic. Corruption, as they all say - and we lawyers and the science of forensics - is a complex phenomenon but always walks along with the pluralism that prevails, namely, in the belief that the main objective of a man, a person of our time, must be to acquire as much wealth as possible by any means, without any moral suspension at all. I am reading an excerpt from the preface of a writing, Mr Minister, which you are well aware of. It's Charalambou Diopoulos. I'll tell you then who writes him: "Corruption, however, is essentially similar to inequality, injustice, lack of rationality and transparency, social exclusion, unfair competition, the loss of comparative advantages for the country and the people, the failure to operate the rule of law and the social state, the crisis of legitimising modern representative democracy. Corruption is also not just a top problem but a problem involving all levels of authority, competence, power, influence or skill." Who says that and who writes it? Evangelos Venizelos, in the preface of the book of Charalambos Dimopoulou "At the Corruption". I ask the friends who ruled the country to this day. What responsibility - at least political, I mean - does the political world of yesterday have for what Mr Venizelos see? If it has, when and how was it checked? How many and what, therefore, are their responsibilities? How were they identified? When did they get charged? There's no answer from the system he was running until yesterday. There is, however, a response from their own people, who are responsible, at key points, from which their findings are made public, such as the Public Administration Inspector General, Mr Rakinzi and the Transparency Secretary General, your own man, Mr Sourla, who, as catapults, clearly denounce the refusal of certain factors in the political system to put the knife in deep to fight corruption. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Rakinzis said: 'Synthesis of competence, non-formality of methods, practices, reports, etc.'. And it concludes - and this is interesting, Minister - that is to say, it is one of the causes of corruption, because only by unification of the control mechanisms, we may have the least political effect. Mr Sourlas, for his part, accounts for this phenomenon of corruption - the primary, unprecedented world-wide, at least the civilized world - which exists in Greece, the lack of political will and specifically states: 'The one that has not existed to date, resulting in the gigantic phenomena and corruption being giggled. They still need politicians..." - he says - "with pure hands and moral conscience, hands that must not be filled with dirty, illegal money, betraying the people, selling their interests. We need a moral conscience, this great control mechanism towards ourselves and society." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. "Politicians are required, who are determined not to bend to power and not to be bend to power, politicians who have realised that a force of conflict with the forces that sustain and reproduce the phenomenon is needed." This is what Mr Surlas says in his last report. I conclude, Mr President, by recalling what Apollos Rhodius said in 296 BC. that politicians and politicians must never abstain from morality, which is part of their political thought and conscience. He said that those who separate politics from morality cannot understand either.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Parliamentary Representative of the River has asked for the floor. What are you asking for, Mr Theochari? Because you've already spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u234	On staff, Mr President, the report on the Memorandum of Understanding...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u235	Do you think there was a staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u236	I think we're ranked by Mr. Petrakos...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u237	If you think there was a staff, you have the floor, but soon, if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u238	I'm gonna need a minute. I don't have much to develop. Don't worry Mr. Petrakos, that's what I'm going to ask him. We are not a nocturnal Memorandum Party. It would be nice to see who his allies are. The river allied with the government to help negotiate. But that does not mean that we will stop criticizing what we see to be a bad text. We are not a media instrument to praise the government, nor are we journalists who, from one Prime Minister, are earning reports within the House and singing out the next government. That is not our parliamentary purpose. We're here to judge you. Your unreliability must be based, so that we can get the right results. It is not our fault, if you promised 1,3 billion euros in Thessaloniki and brought 200 million euros to the rest of the amendments together, we have almost 40 million costs, and we have 200 million on the main theme of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u239	It's 1.8.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr Theocharis, for taking the floor on specific staff. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Petrako, please be quiet. Mrs Asmakopoulou has taken the floor. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after two months of government of SYRIZA and of Independent Greeks and in the new political era of creative ambiguity, we are finally coming to Parliament to discuss a bill, something with paper, which is supposed to be specific and clear. I would like to begin with a comment on the statement by the Commission representative, who described this bill as a unilateral action. I clarify something, which should be self-evident. And I and those who are with the New Democracy party, are obviously not joining the lenders and we are not joining the SYRIZA, but we are joining the country. However, from what I see from the government's attitude, which does not think it is a unilateral energy, at least creative ambiguity has not led to the two parties seeing the agreement of 20 February in the same way as what it is and what is not a unilateral energy. I too, personally, always thought that clarity was in favour of the weakest in an agreement rather than the strongest. Clearly, the weak one wants it, because he wants to know what he gets and - much more importantly - wants to know what he's going to give. I really don't know what creative ambiguity is after all this time. Unfortunately, as far as I can see, it is rather a veil behind which the current government is hiding and behind which it hides certain things. Firstly, the discrepancy between its pre-election words and its post-election works, secondly, the inconsistency between the members of the Government on all grounds and thirdly, its inability to rule on any project - at least it does not appear that there is one - but also efficiency. And if the Troika 'Brussels Group' or 'positions' were baptized, and if the extension 'bridge' was baptized, and if the new agreement, which is essentially a third memorandum coming, in any case,'social contract', 'the development agreement', I think that creative ambiguity, you have baptized your political hypocrisy. And this bill is a sample of your hypocrisy policy - and I begin with the title 'confronting the humanitarian crisis' - when five of the thirty-two articles deal with this issue, when it came to the public debate for a total of 13 hours, five of which were post-mortem and had eleven comments, when it was accompanied by eight amendments, which do not seem to me to have an absolute connection with the bill - at least on the face of it - and when it costs 200 million euros compared to 2 billion in the Thessaloniki programme. You will allow me to begin with your recent Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, and also to use some figures now that I am going to speak more extensively. The Antonis Samaras government, to deal with this problem, gave seven hundred thousand people 450 million as a social dividend, or EUR 650 per beneficiary. He had given 30 million in sixty - four thousand uniforms. He'd reconnected the power to people who needed it. He had applied the social invoice for six hundred and fifty thousand families. He had given free hospital coverage. He had given 20 million euros for the homeless. He had given thirteen municipalities, pilots, 30m euros for the minimum guaranteed income, which the Minister, she says, says, and in general, we are told by the government that one billion euros for the full implementation of the programme, had not been entered in the budget. Well, if that really is a good institution that the government wants to support, because it is agreed, because it allows dignity, because it is something that has a sustainability and has within it a plan, then that could still be EUR 200 million - which we do not know where it will get - to give for the minimum guaranteed income and move on to finding the rest together. However, political hypocrisy continues in the second part of the bill, where - very briefly, as our rapporteur has analysed this issue very well - the fight against corruption and tax evasion is through institutions that are directly linked and supervised by the political leadership, obviously opening windows for micro-party interests and their service, so that we do not go ahead with possible political blackmail. And, of course, political hypocrisy is still going on and we're supposed to have a smaller government, with fewer consultants and everything else. When one reads the bill, even with the legislative improvements, one sees the position of counsellors as having taken innumerable secondment, as well as volunteer counsellors who take them, we do not know how much travelingly. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obviously associated with the rapporteur of the bill, the rapporteur of the New Democracy for the bill, Mr Panayotopoulos and his position. Because we have said, as a Qualified Opposition, that we will support everything good that comes, and of course we will be against all harmful, with the sole aim of the interest of the country. Unfortunately, within creative ambiguity, I'm beginning to wonder where you're taking the place. I am beginning to fear that neither you know where you are going and that you cannot agree with each other, because you do not agree with what is a unilateral energy, you do not agree to how much is the primary surplus, you do not agree that resources will go from the militarisations, you do not agree whether or not your election commitments will be complied with. And in the meantime, we are with a real economy that is dead, we are in a financial suffocation, and you are talking, in this time, about creating a climate that is too bad for the place, about who will be loaded with the "bug" if you are not successful. And of course, we want you to succeed, because it's for the good of the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude by saying that in order to tackle a problem, we must address the cause of the problem. The cause of the problem facing this bill is the economic crisis - in you, the Memorandum - and, of course, it is all for us. Well, we don't rule anymore. Now you're ruling, and it's time for you to realize it. The memorandum isn't supposed to exist anymore, is it? So deal with this. Faced with it, because you must realize that you are ruling but in fifty days, unfortunately, you have not managed to deal with it at all. What you have achieved is that the sacrifices of the Greek people begin to turn. And the bad thing is that the people who will be hurt, if a third memorandum comes, are exactly the people who aim for this bill, to whom you give 3 euros a day to eat, while well-paid employees in PPC, take 6 euros a day to drink coffee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. Mr. Christos Dimas has the floor and then Mr. Gikas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which is typically not one but at least two. These are different bills regardless of each other, which should each be discussed and submitted separately. I think that this is clear to all of us, because today we are called on to discuss how our families and fellow people who live in very difficult economic conditions will be helped, and at the same time assess the new administrative structure, and in the end there are three completely irrelevant articles. As far as the amendments are concerned, you are simply once again confirming the misrepresentation of statements and acts in the SYRIZA, since a number of unrelated and even late amendments have been tabled. We are, of course, clear that we are not opposed to this plan in the first place. But, Minister, we must stress the need to comply with the compromise agreement with our partners. You must therefore consult with them so that it is not considered a unilateral action. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, that you have not been instructed by Greek citizens to lead the country to international and European isolation nor to jeopardise the position of Greece in the Eurozone. For the first time, there is so much concern among Greek citizens about whether wages and pensions will be paid, whether the funds will be licensed, whether the deposits will be committed or even if there will be a capital restriction. As long as this conversation continues, our country is damaged. So, you have to work methodically so that we can move forward. The only way out is effective cooperation with our partners and not isolation. We don't care what he's gonna call himself, where the meetings are going to take place and so forth. But we want clear progress on the debates on the reforms that the country needs. This bill is malicious, clipboard and contains too many ambiguities. If we need to distinguish the clearest point, that's the inability to cost it. In Chapter 3 of his report, the General Accounting Office of the State, referring to measures to address the humanitarian crisis, says precisely: "The level of expenditure cannot be assessed, because it depends on the adoption of the relevant joint ministerial decision". In short, the General Accounting Office of the State tells us: 'I cannot cost what you intend to do'. It is very reasonable to answer, Minister, and let me set an example. You have not yet decided how many and who will benefit. In the program of Thessaloniki, mention the phrases "Free current in three hundred thousand households below the poverty line and a feeding grant program with feeding coupons to three hundred thousand apes". Then, about a month ago, the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, in his last letter to the Eurogroup, referred to three hundred thousand households with regard to the feeding measure. Of course, last week during the relevant debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I heard you talking about a hundred and fifty-three thousand households. Now how many households will benefit from free electricity, I think you haven't made it clear anywhere. You believe there 22.100,000 euros with no criteria. What will come into effect from all this? Ladies and gentlemen, with the country's financial data, we should all agree on one thing, that when we talk about money we have to say how much and exactly we will find them. We all agree on actions to relieve our fellow citizens of needing help. But we should do the right thing. In this case, the General Accounting Office of the State tells us: 'We do not even know what numbers to add'. That's the truth. As far as the capital relating to the organisation of the government and the governmental bodies, Minister, is concerned, it is certainly the government's right to create structures that will facilitate its work and better coordinate its operation. But let's tell the truth. These regulations do not simply make the shape more flexible, but on the contrary increase it and create even greater bureaucracy. The worst is, however, that with the forecasts made, there is a leak - beyond the usual - hundreds of civil servants from their services in the new general secretariats, with all the consequences that this may have for public administration. I am referring specifically to Article 23 where the number of seconded persons is not too much or too doubled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In other words, it is not enough that we have the most populous government, despite the differing election announcements - even in television footage, it seems that this is the most twisted Ministerial Council, it is not possible for the ministers to sit! - but with your bill, you are already telling us that this cosmos is constructive and that there must also be in the ministerial and political offices. I say this because with what we read, Mr President, we understand that at least four hundred civil servants will only be seconded by the public authorities to serve the Offices of Ministers, Deputys, State Secretarys, Vice-Presidents and others. And of course these employees will cost the Greek taxpayer much more than if they remained in place, since they will now receive an overtime allowance of course. This is serious inconsistency in relation to what you have said in the election, in terms of small and flexible shapes and what you are finally doing. How much more, it relates to the need for good administration that the country so needs and we all admit. But these bureaucratic forecasts do not end here. You are creating dozens of positions for new Deputy Secretarys and with the staff corresponding to them. I mean, an administrative officer and a special advisor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And what do you say to convince us that red tape and overpopulation are decreasing in the government institutions? So you tell us that the position of the National Coordinator for Combating Corruption and the eight employees he is entitled to is abolished. So you're pulling out nine seats to create sixty. That's what you're telling us! Overall - and I think that this is important to keep - in the regulations that have been introduced, the secondments from the public to the government are almost tripling in relation to what has happened in the past. In fact, there is also the unknown ‘h’. This is the number and payments of travellers and volunteers working at the political offices of the Prime Minister, the Vice-Presidents of the Government and the Ministers. Why don't you tell us how many of these volunteers can be and how many money a month for their journeys?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Colleague, please, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, please, I would like your tolerance for a while. Besides, I'm not the first to break time. There is another point I would like to say before I close my speech. I would like to believe that the mistake in the original wording of Article 10 regarding the functioning of the new General Secretariat for Combating Corruption, which directly infringed the principle of separation of powers, has fortunately been corrected. However, the question remains and is this: What new and innovative is the Secretariat-General for Combating Corruption offered by the National Coordinator for Corruption? In the relevant committees, Mr Minister, you have not been able to answer this question at all, as has been the case today. You are abolishing an independent authority by creating a General Secretariat under the government, with all the questions that this may put about transparency in its independent operation. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by saying, as I have said before, that we are not negative to the Multifibre Arrangement, but, of course, provided that the compromise signed by Mr Varoufakis is not violated but, of course, that you have not brought to Parliament for ratification. In the first bill brought to Parliament, the new government is neither the problem areas nor the unclear ones. It is a rough and illegitimate bill, but we hope that at the last minute some of our remarks will be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr. Christos Dimas. Mr Gikas has the floor, and then Mrs Makri and Mr Sevastakis. However, given that it is quite late, I would ask the last speakers to respect this year. Here, Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. This is my first speech today, but it's okay. For prostitutes, it's okay! Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it was completed about two months ago that you were in the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u248	Is it 25 March?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u249	Almost two months. So it's been almost two months and the Greek people waited for you to do much more. You got into a revolutionary air, you went to Europe, you thought you would treat Europeans, as you treat citizens internally, and of course you faced a wall. I am a military officer - three decades I served the glorious Navy - and I know from diplomacy, because I have done many years in NATO. So I tell you that this policy you are following is nationally dangerous. And it is nationally dangerous not only at economic level but at all levels. I hope I'm disproved. And I'm talking good intentions. As time runs, as far as the bill is concerned, I will not go into the text, but I would like to make two points. It is good that our unreliable fellow citizens are being treated. We agree, as our rapporteur said, in principle. However, most of the issues raised in this bill, at least in the part concerning the humanitarian crisis, were dealt with in one way or another by the previous government. Our rapporteur has said so very well, and Mrs Asmakopoulou has said so very well, and I will not go into this process. I will say, however, that the minimum guaranteed income, which many of our SYRIZA colleagues - if you wish - have rejected, is a very serious measure, which, if you follow it, will solve the problem of poverty and tolerance. It must be admitted that poverty exists and poverty exists and misery exists in the years of the Memorandum. I'm going to go into a provision concerning the National Coordinator against Corruption. I had the opportunity a couple of weeks ago to visit Mr Tent - and I am glad that the Minister spoke with these words, because he is, indeed, a man of ruthless authority and ethos - and he explained exactly to me the philosophy of the National Coordinator against Corruption. The question, Minister, is not control, is prevention. There were working groups that were set up in all ministries and produced work. They were trying to locate all the "monkeys", all the "holes" - forgive me for the expression - which the existing legislation has and has. And, of course, these working groups and the work they produced - most of them have already delivered the work to the National Coordinator - are gone. It is a matter of prevention, Minister, and not control. There are too many control mechanisms. You spoke of a lack of operational responsibilities. Why don't you give the National Coordinator operational responsibilities? Why don't you let him perform this work independently? And - be careful - we are not talking about faces, we are talking about the substance, the result, to fight corruption. Saying this, think about it. We're talking about changing structures. I can agree with you on many things. However, I cannot agree with the provision on 'voluntary advisors'. How will they be rewarded if they are not rewarded? How will they live? You're telling me they're taking a ride. Does it not make you mind that they can use the strength of the post, the card we call the Minister's Adviser for their own benefit? Do we, then, create new 'Windows' for corruption? I'm saying, is that it? That's a good idea, Minister. As I come from an island area, I take the trigger from Mr Cameroon, who spoke about the small islands. You know, we have the Overseas Islands in Corfu and too much of what he said I sign them. In such a bill perhaps there should be some provisions for the small islands. I fully agree with his proposal to become a new bill, which will deal with all of the problems of the smaller islands, whether it concerns incentives for doctors, maritime transport, projects or anything. Finally, I would like to say that in principle we will of course support anything that has to do with help to our fellow people and I would like to ask the Minister to reconsider the matter of the National Coordinator against Corruption. Give him operational responsibilities. Don't remove him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Gika. Mrs Macrie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u251	I must say, Mr President, that I have heard very interesting things today in the debate on the first bill submitted by SYRIZA. I have heard the New Democracy speak of good administration, the Communist Party of Greece that capitalism is responsible for the creation of poverty and, of course, the Parliamentary Representative of the Party Potami tells us: "Go to the Germans and we are with you." So, listening to all these arguments, I have come to my mind some specific things. Let me say, therefore, that for the matter of "all is the fault of capitalism and of poverty", I came to mind a quote from George Orwell's well-known book "The Farm of Animals" where at the end of the book they looked at the animals from the window one of the pigs and one of the people but they couldn't separate who were the pigs and who were the people. I think we all know what the meaning of this great book by George Orwell is. On the argument of the Parliamentary Representative of the River, he reminded me of the famous line in the Greek film "The Germans are our friends". That's a great movie! However, I remembered something else by listening to the Parliamentary Representative of the River. I remembered a question I had tabled on 18-6-2014, when it appeared when the government of Samaras - Venizelos as Secretary of State for Income, claiming a EUR 5 million bonus from the Greek State. This question has never been answered, although I had also submitted a request for documents to be filed in order to request the famous 'the gold contract', as the publications of that period said. I do not expect him to answer me, but it is time to see about your contract and we will see exactly whether or not you claimed the EUR 5 million to the detriment of the Greek people. The debate on the first draft law by the SYRIZA government could only concern the relief of society from the effects of the humanitarian crisis. The legislative initiative demonstrates the priorities of the government of all Greeks. With all the resources we can find instantly, we aim to relieve those in need. The humanitarian crisis is, ladies and gentlemen, a social phenomenon and there are many specific reasons for its birth. Failed political, economic, practical and ideological strangles, meaningless austerity, inappropriate internal devaluation, undefeated neoliberal oligarchs' pocket service against the needs of many, are key genetic factors of the social phenomenon which is not justified in a country that is supposed to have gone through underdevelopment. It is the policies of the previous governments that have created the nightmare in many citizens. Today, we are being called upon to solve the problem that we have been inherited. This bill is the beginning of the solution. We are not claiming laurels of perfection, since both time and resources are limited. But we believe that since the beginning is half of everything, we have at least made a first good approach. We are critical of the extent of the efforts, because - he says - we cover a few hundred thousand households, not twice or three times, because we provide so much euros and not twice or three times, because - he says - we bring amendments. We must note that yes, there are many amendments which, as the President of Parliament said, will be analysed by the ministers in detail, which you have never done. It is the House that will decide whether to accept them, which you have never done. The notified difference in these amendments from your own, is that we serve the interests of the citizens and not the interests and pockets of the oligarchs that you served. We shall be able to see them before the plenary sitting ends, so that your disgrace does not appear, for example, in the case of transactions such as Amendment No 1251/67 which you have spent in one night, where you have been relieved of fewer people. According to a report from the magazine “UNFOLLOW”, it was your government that erased fines and certified tax obligations, which only for one company for 2010 and 2011 amount to EUR 480 million from EUR 800 million that was the original one. It is therefore not the case that those who contributed, by their actions or omissions, to the humanitarian crisis and did nothing essential to limit it, to present themselves as critics of their efforts to resolve the problem they have created. I firmly believe that if the ministers of government were able to alleviate even more, they would. I believe that we will be able to extend efforts to include even more of our fellow citizens, in addition to those who are experiencing extreme poverty, to the beneficiaries of a program to relaunch the Greek economy, because the re-start must be made from the basis of society and not from the supposed investors targeted by the previous government... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for some more time. Of course, we want investments, but they will have a positive social dimension. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. We believe in a state that can operate and control the market for the benefit of citizens and competition, which is why we are calling for dignity at all levels. It is true that we have limited, Minister, the ministries and the post-calls and the secretaries, but at a time when we ask the citizens to squeeze blood from the rock, we must work to stop the phenomena of undiversity and anarchist appointings, which of course gigantically giggled the old-party political system. It is not possible, for example, for pilots of the Air Force to risk their lives and physical integrity for crumbs and to provide three and four times the wages for the general secretaries and at the same time to provide cars, drivers, safety and working costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u252	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u253	I shall conclude, Mr President. SYRIZA is a radical party and must first of all The aim of these injustices is to do the Prime Minister's statement "equal pay for equal work" and only honest and worthy will participate in the government of all Greeks. The savings so far have been necessary, but we must continue, have the necessary state positions and have them managed by worthy of formal and practical qualifications. The past practices of the collapsing party virtues must enter the timeline of history along with those who support such logic and the resources that will be saved to society. Citizens understand that we are trying but demanding speed, as the pressure conditions they take are suffocating.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u254	Your Honor, you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u255	From the study - and I close, Mr President - of the bill, one can see that the government is making the first steps to complete and implement its pre-election commitments. Of course, there is still much to be done. We know that, so far, the only moves have been aimed at impressive and not essentially. We know that the concepts were chilling and the resources were being wasted, so that the ministers could walk around and make them comfortable. But we also know that the Greek people were clear and clear in order to put an end to all this. In conclusion, I should like to say that we must - since it is a day of mourning for Greek society - condemn what has happened today. I'm talking about the kid who was buried, which was killed by a cowardly slogan. I would like to express my warmest condolences to the family along with the commitment - I believe in the whole House - that we will do everything we can to ensure that this incident is the last in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u258	Wait a minute! You don't have the floor. Mr Sevastakis has asked for the floor. I've already announced him, and I want him to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u259	No, Mr President, I would now like to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Sevastakis is patiently waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u261	By the time Mr. Sevastakis was up in Step, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u262	Come on, Mr. Sevastaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u263	Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u264	You'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u265	Now I want the floor, Mr President, please very much. I want to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u266	First of all, what do you want to talk about? You've spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u267	I would like to say a few words as a parliamentary representative of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u268	You've spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u269	It doesn't matter. I have the right as a parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u270	Mr Theocharis has asked for the floor before you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u271	Well, it's okay. Mr Theocharis has not asked for the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u272	I beg both of you because the speakers are waiting so long...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u273	No, Mr. President, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u274	It's a little arbitrary now what you're doing. You don't respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u275	I'd be done now. Look, as a JRC, we accept criticism and warfare, but not obscene, because if some or some people think that they are resorting to old anti-communism methods, to justify the crimes of capitalism, they are deeply laughed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much. Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u278	On what matter, personal? Like the last one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u279	Didn't you hear what was said about the five million? Shouldn't that be answered?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u280	Okay, I appreciate - with all the courage - that it's too much. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u281	If it's not personal, then what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u282	Now that's it, yeah. But before that, it was not personal with regard to Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u283	It wouldn't be worth the trouble of answering Mrs. McCree. He couldn't understand me. However, despite the late time, there are worthy colleagues I respect, and I must therefore reply for the sake of the Minutes. I quit a sense of duty, and when I left, I left my place, unlike others did. I did not get one euro from my resignation, and I have not signed a contract while I was Secretary-General, as opposed to the next ones who followed this position. I cannot, then, hear from the Step here of the House slander! Be very careful when Mrs. Macras decides to deal with these issues that she knows...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u284	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u286	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u287	I have a right to reply from the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u288	Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u289	It would therefore be worth it, Mr Theocharis, not answering me, for I mentioned it with evidence. I have tabled a specific question to Parliament and the government the previous one who appointed you has refused to answer it. Therefore, do not say that you detest to answer to me. You don't answer me. Answer the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u290	I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u291	Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Sevastakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u292	The last one in my first speech. It's almost a pun. In the programming statements Mr Stakoras - I think - had spoken of a different office that this government is refusing to recommend. However, I think that this bill is a truly different office, a different hierarchy, and I consider this to be politically productive. It links two areas, which are organically related, namely a fundamental concept, on the other hand, the rebuilding of certain characteristics of the State, the removal of certain characteristics that are counterproductive, i.e. public space structured, on the other hand, supporting structures. I think the bill has some very interesting elements, such as, for example, setting up a single support area through synergies - added value says it - of existing structures that I think may change a worldview that dominates society. I find this extremely interesting from a cultural point of view. I also find it interesting that this bill, while it relates to 'now', has an almost strong connection with the past, with the past year. In essence, policies for forty years that produce huge class and social inequalities, which produce exclusion phenomena, familiarize society in the sense of exclusion, and create a collective mistrialism, are illustrated. This bill comes to resurrect and restore a social continuity that has been shattered. She said Mrs. Libertyraki that the measures are fragmentary. Extreme poverty itself is a distraction from culturally acceptable. Therefore, the bill tries to mitigate this extremeity. He won't solve it. He won't give a class answer, Mr. Karathanasopoulou, to any systemic question. It cannot do this and it is not the treaty that Greek society can set up this answer. But she can be attempted by recommending a new collectiveness. It is a question, who organises the file on the basis of which these supporting structures will be created, that is to say, the aid to the citizens. Who's organizing this honest file that illustrates reality? This also highlights the question of the second chapter of the chapter on corruption. Indeed, our country is suffering from the organisation of a archive, a reliable reading of reality, a reliable valuation of reality. It is clear that not all governments were able to build, form state structures that have quality, morality and productivity. And that is precisely why the hit on corruption, which is a political choice and is a productive specificity - corruption is a productive specificity, it is an economic one, it is not just a moral problem - it is both the great demanding and the rationalist, what it wants to build a reality that is functional. I think the capitalist system does not just produce inequality. It produces a system of values that eliminates, demolitions inequality, i.e. eliminates them or creates a sense of natural inequality. So the capitalist system primarily is a cultural system, a system that defines different visas. And this conflict is much deeper than simply denouncing the system, than mere morality against the system. In conclusion, I would like to say that one can build illusions. One can respond to the illusions, making a political or other handling. However, this phenomenon of garbage people, I think, leads us to a composition. We must respond as an organised society to this phenomenon, even using a bill that cannot provide a definitive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u293	We thank Mr Sevastakis, firstly, for having had the patience to sit down and speak as the last speaker and secondly for keeping his time. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-17-S1-commons.u294	With the consent of the House at 01.13' the sitting for today Wednesday, 18 March 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: Continue the debate on the principle of the draft law: "Consolidating direct measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and the governmental bodies and other provisions".
