ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The third question will be discussed under No 51/16-3-2015, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia, to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the government's planning to address the threat of jihadists. The Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr. Ioannis Panousis. Here, Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's topical question concerns the very vital issue of jihadists. There are several alarming reports on our homeland. For example, we read on approved websites such as www.prothema.gr and DefenceNet.gr, the following: "Greek in the jihadist jihadists of Obama", "Alarm in the jihadists, hundred suspected jihadists", but also on other sites, such as "In Theva the flag of Islamists has gone up" and "The jihadists have appeared against the Dodecanese". Unfortunately, we also had a case last December in Piraeus of our unfortunate compatriot, a thirty-five-year-old Greek who was found decapitated by the method used by the jihadists. What investigations did the Greek police do about it? Here I have the relevant post, if you wish, I will present it at the end of my speech in the Minutes. Golden Dawn for many years had warned that the massive entry of illegal immigrants from Turkey, in particular, would create conditions of an asymmetric war in our country, beyond the creation of humanitarian crisis conditions. We are talking about those who do not have the necessary documents to justify their presence in our country. These are illegal immigrants. It is beyond doubt that thousands of jihadists, playing immigrants, have already landed in our country. They are jihadists taking orders from the secret services of Turkey and Saudi Arabia. Clearly it is not by chance Gaddafi's cousin's statement that there are many terrorists among them, between ten and fifty per thousand. At the same wavelength was the statement we read yesterday in British Ambassador John Kitmer's "KYRIKIS' "KATHMENIS' "that organised, criminal circuits do not only move migrants but also individuals who may develop into terrorists. We must point out and realise that these jihadists are trained in conditions of real war and the methods that will be applied in our country, when they consider that the right time has come, will run out of regular simple terrorist attacks. We would like you to tell us if there is a government planning to address the threat of jihadists. Given that jihadists have entered our homeland, why does the government support them by gradually releasing illegal immigrants? Does it have a picture of how many jihadists are currently on the Greek territory? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Zarulia. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u4	Madam Papoutsis, no matter how much one wants to degrade the criminal phenomenon of jihanism, it must not forget that the situation seems to be out of control and late and methodically seems to be a carpet of a regional or global religious war, which serves geopolitical and geostrategic purposes. Thus, the civilised community and Greece must react and create the framework for international cooperation against terrorism. This is the image of the appalling face of terrorism, jihanism, which has as an acne of the spear, religious fundamentalism, that is, the interconnection of politics with religion. At the current juncture in the bay of Islam, the great fundamentalist movements appear. However, since the current investigations of the competent police services, information on the presence of extremist jihadists in our country has not been confirmed. In order to address, however, the risk of the possible spread of Islamic terrorists - jihadists in our country, as well as the spread of international terrorism and violent extremism, Greek police services, firstly, focus on preventing the use of illegal immigration networks by Islamic extremists, with a view to their transfer to European territory and with a point of entry into our country, secondly, they are on constant vigilance to detect suspected extremist activities, thirdly, they analyse and evaluate any information contained in their knowledge and is related to this topic. Moreover, through international cooperation channels, they are closely following up the upheavals taking place in the Middle East - Syria, Iraq and others - and the security problems that arise in terms of the action and movement of Islamic terrorists. They provide continuous instructions and directions for raising awareness of police personnel and, in particular, of frontline police officers to deal with suspicious movements of people to and from our country. There's a related profile. They carry out continuous training of staff on radicalisation issues leading to violent extremism and terrorism, with a view to identifying suspicious individuals and activities. I shall return to my second speech, because I too have read about the Italian police, for example, which has shown a filmed material lasting three minutes, which claims to have been taken to Albania and in which some people appear in a jihadist uniform that tears their red passports. In fact, some website claims to be Kosovo passports. Then there is a closed space where they are supposed to be trained, but they also train young children. So we have to keep our eyes open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. What I heard, Minister, I am delighted. Indeed, if and if they are complied with, I think it is in the right direction, as well as the statement you made the other day, about the fact that the country cannot withstand other immigrants. We would just like to see that what you say is indeed going to happen so that Greek society does not experience similar bloody phenomena, such as what we have seen happening recently in Europe. In ending and not wanting to become evil prophets, we on our part simply reiterate the consistent position of Golden Dawn for implementing the existing legislation on illegal immigration and removal from the ideologies of globalisation and multiracial society, which can only lead to destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs Zarulia, and thank you for being brief. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u8	You have confidence in the police, Mrs. Zarulia. The Hellenic Police is an institution of democracy and mobilizes all services in the context of the counter-terrorism operations. Let us remember on 15-1-2015 in the cities of Belgium the dismantling of the jihadist core that brought the Greek Police and Anti-terrorism together with that of Belgium and we arrested an Algerian national who seemed to be the leader. And despite the fact that it was not, it was of interest to the Belgian authorities. That is why a European arrest warrant was requested, its extradition to the country above, and therefore international cooperation was carried out with all those who have put terrorism - whatever terrorism - in the first place on the agenda. However, we must stress that during the Greek Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the European strategy to tackle radicalisation leading to violent extremism and terrorism has been revised, which will form the basis for the new national strategies. Regarding the question of the interruption of the detention of irregular immigrants, we know that the services of the Greek Police are operating under the Community Directive 2008/115 in respect of persons in this category. For those foreigners, firstly, there are no grounds for public policy and security, secondly, they are registered in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in existing national and Union law. All cases held for more than six months in the upper framework shall be reviewed. At the same time, every effort is made by our Ministry and the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police to deal effectively with the phenomenon of irregular immigration, in a way that ensures that foreigners are controlled in our country, as well as their circulation and movement. Already in full cooperation with the co-responsibility bodies, the formulation of the framework for rational management of the migration issue. Finally, according to our information - and this is crucial, especially for me I was nineteen years in Thrace - the living Muslim economic migrants, the ordinary Muslims in our country are following moderate Islam's intra-religious flows and so far no suspected extremist activities have been found to jeopardise the country's public order and national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Next is the sixth question (No 42/16-3-2015) by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the cut-off of the provincial district network "Hania Aullari - Platanas - Kymis Beach". The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis. Here, Mr Mavragani, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. It's a simple matter. On this provincial network "National Class II Street", as described by the n. 315/1955, the former prefecture now has the successor person, that is, the Region of Central Greece. There have been many occasions here, Minister. I remember at least more than five, six times that of this national network due to the waves of the Aegean Sea, which impact on Kymi Beach. Characteristics, the whole network has been literally folded in the middle. In fact, I have the picture and I will submit it to the Minutes so that the Minister can also see the importance of the matter. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We note that the region has 3,600,000 as a budget for the repair and maintenance of these roads this year. However, there has been no repair in the way that had to be done, because we also need to be armoured by sea, because even if it is still handwashed again after one, two, three or even six months we will have the same. It is the road - and I would point this out - that leads to the port of Kymi. The port of Kymi has been located since 2003 as a strategic port of Greece. So we can't leave this road a feather of his luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. Here, Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, Mr Mavragani, this is a simple matter as you have put it, and I have a number of documents and a file on them, but I do not need to go into detail. It is a case where there seems to be a maliciousness of local self-government and how to perceive things even in times of crisis, such as this. There is already a study on all this road construction, which is the main road of high height - we have all the amounts from the region - and this is a part which, despite the fact that it was a municipality - one could say - already the region has undertaken to make the restoration. Many times, indeed, it has been hurt in the way you said and related to the waves and the whole shape over there. It was wrong to stop the project and there are any objections to the regional contractor - I repeat - with money of hers than I understand. It is impossible to understand a competition as to who will lead the way, when the opposite problem exists throughout the country, to restore damage and problems and misartery. I am also afraid that every year - from information we have had from the services - this superficial repair and the municipality is being repeated too much and a safe and technically sound infrastructure is not being created in that area. I think that you are very right to identify the issue. For our part, we will do what we need to do and also to point out to the municipality the completely inappropriate nature of this action and of this type of competition, which only raises questions, rather than resolves issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Mavraani, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u14	I will need much less time, Mr President, because the answer was very comprehensive. I just want to point out this, and that is why my question was addressed to the Ministry of Shipping and also to the Ministry of Finance, as far as the defence of the sea is concerned, and on the other hand, any work must be done within the sea so that the main road leading to the port of Kymi can be adequately and technically well protected. That is why I would like the Minister - although I know that it is a side of his responsibilities - to make an effort in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce, because some stoners must definitely fall to end this problem once and for all and not to have bloody expenditure every year in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u16	Yes, despite the fact that you, as well as as an engineer, are talking about these issues, in any case, we have been informed that a study is under way in consultation with the Port Agency and so on. And when the construction takes place, it'll be fine. Pharaonic-type constructions and various projects must be avoided, which may exist in the area, because aesthetics with functionality and excellent construction can indeed be in this very sensitive and beautiful region of Evia, for many years from there and after being restored - the point of reference. So there is no need for excessive studies, excessive costs, excessive costs in his name, that the problem is presenting every little and little. He needs a proper study, a good construction, surveillance. The region has all the data in front of it. Also, the municipality can in addition and fully in cooperation check how this is to be done, support and support in connection with ripples. I think that, following the publicity of this debate, the necessary and immediate provision will be demonstrated, because it is not right for public affairs to react when the work can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. We enter the seventh under No. 43/16-3-2015 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliamentary of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the non-compliance with the protocol of official guests during the recent public events in Rhodes on the national anniversary of the Dodecanese in Greece. Mr. Kremastein, you can develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, Minister, it would be funny to ask the Minister of the Interior why the protocol was not respected at an anniversary celebration. It would be funny, and indeed, when I personally do not believe in the customary parade. I personally believe that parades must take a European character. We are in Europe and we must honor the dead and heroes in the way that all other peoples of Europe honor them. Why am I saying all this? Because I was in this parade, necessarily representing the President of PASOK who could not be there, even though he had been called. Of course, it did not give me any special impression when I found no position, replacing the President of PASOK and headed for the place where the MPs are sitting. That is where I found the MPs behind the mayors, not only local government and anti-regions. I made the mistake of getting down modestly and humbly from the platform, without saying anything to anyone. I was asked by the journalists why I came down and said that from the time the Dodecanese was released in 1947 to 2015 a protocol is kept that is for everyone. This is not about me personally - because I, I repeat, do not go on platforms - but the institution of the Member cannot be abused. That's what I said, and I said it in public. He followed a series of controversy from the district manager, abusive - if you would like - announcements which I, instead of answering, sent them to see and appreciate them. I would ask you to tell them, if anything, to respect institutions, not the faces. The institutions. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kremastein. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u20	Mr Papoutsis, you are not right to suggest anything different about disciplinary measures, etc., which decentralised administration has its own procedures to impose if, for example, this was something too serious to be on the basis of substance. It is something serious about its institutional dimension, its local resonance and influence on society. We have an answer. You know that we should also address the region. You know that the district manager also considers that you refused to climb the platform. Only Mr. Consolas wanted to get on the platform. Two of our Members, Mr Gatis, Mr Santorinios, on grounds of ideological, political, etc. They didn't want to go up. There is a general description here of a situation which does not give us an honour to discuss it. They were invited, he says, to the empty positions in the first row to sit in order, in accordance with the protocol, Vice-President, President of the Regional Council, and so on, so you stayed behind, even though you were a Member. An invitation was sent to PASOK for the appointment of a representative and it says that the region did not receive a reply that you were a representative of Mr Venizelos. Generally speaking, there should be a mutual respect between all the institutions, in order for the citizens and society to respect us and the necessary self-respect, which for all of us is a code, and we are all judged in public. In this sense, I think that you have rightly raised the issue in the public space to be discussed. It will take everyone - let us say - the message of such a civilised debate that is taking place here. Unfortunately, however, it seems that on a local level sometimes they see things, with local competition or do not know how, with behaviour that could be resolved on the ground. You know that better than all of us. You're the oldest, and if you want to respect the benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I am not in the mood to give a second answer, but I have to reply because it is public that Mr Consolas, Member of the New Democracy, had indeed risen to the platform and sat behind the Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents, etc. And the President of the City Council told him that if you don't come by me, then I'm going down too. This, as you can see, is a degeneration of the concept of the Parliamentary institution. And Mr. Consolas went forward. What I say to you, Mr Consolas said to me and to me, and in the presence of others, and there was no one in the mood, nor now I, after this story you said, to create issues without any reason. But when a district officer is lying, the problem is not the customary one. Because he could say that there was an ignorance of the protocol by someone there and nothing else, and there would be no discussion. But lying in a turbulence and exaggerating people who, anyway, appreciates their society, loves them - as you say -, this is a big problem and it is broadcast by stations, radios, etc. And how could I be in front of so many journalists to get off the platform and say that I got off because I didn't have a seat? I would be told, "But, since there is a place" journalists themselves. These are self-proofing and insulting and all that, so that I don't describe them. That is why I was forced instead of responding in the same way, to address you and to send you all the things you have in front of you, to assess the situation today. My request is that you transfer these, because I am not asking for punishments and disciplinarys, which could be said in the narrow spirit of the law. I ask for self-evident, that is to say, that there should be no respect for the institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Minister, would you like to come back?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u24	Yes, Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u25	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u26	I believe that the public debate on this issue will help effectively to relocate and to relocate the opinion, the opinion and the Commissioner for Regional Affairs. In any case, the Minutes of this debate will be sent to him to take account of the fact that these issues with a different style should be resolved on the local scale and always on the basis of respect for the institutions and the elected at all levels. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. We enter the second under number 46/16-3-2015 topical question of the second question of the Deputy of Serres of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy regarding the flooding protection of Serres Law. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis. Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, one of the greatest problems facing the Serres Prefecture is the overflow of both Lake Kerkin and the Strymonous River as a result of intense weather phenomena. Issues that have to do with natural disasters, fellow citizens in despair and in need cannot become a field of party confrontation. It is precisely because I do not believe in the sterile opposition that I must acknowledge to the government: in short, we had three ministers in our prefecture to visit him. In particular, both Mr Apostle and Mrs Maria Kollia gave the first answers to complex and difficult issues. What we understood is that there is reason to believe that the compensation solution will be given in consultation with the European Union to avoid the bad example of fines and charges. However, as we recognise the positive so we will be strict with the government if we do not see immediate and tangible results. Today, much of the county has been placed in an emergency. The difficult situation in recent weeks has deteriorated particularly in the last two days. The lake level has risen dangerously. The results are large areas of the campus under floods. It's already over fifty thousand acres. Also, impurities in various parts of the prefecture have either been destroyed or retreated. The situation therefore needs immediate action which only the government can implement. So I ask you: does the government intend to help the region directly in the process of dealing with the situation at political but, above all, at economic level? Secondly, a plan has been drawn up for the immediate relief of the affected producers and, in particular, those who possess unscathed agricultural land, which are in danger of losing the growing season, the incomes of this time and the next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr Karamanlis. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, this question by Mr Karamanlis is a first opportunity - because I fear that other such 'opportunities' will come - to talk about restoring damage from specific climatic and other side effects that often occur in our country. In the past few months, we have had too much problems. Perhaps, Mr President, there should be some discussion at some point on the basis of these questions, and not on their formal side, real synergy and on how effectively the central government can deal effectively with multi-dimensional, multi-factorial problems encountered in such damage. Because the issue concerns at least half of the Ministerial Council in a group of ministries, in the region, in decentralised administrations, in funds which are very different in terms and which can be collected and dealt effectively. In this regard, you are very well aware that the Ministry's State Secretary, Mrs Kollia Tsaruha, in this capacity as State Secretary, beyond her capacity as your colleague in Serres, has been mobilised. He contacted other MPs in your region - with the district commander, with all the authorities, with the Armed Forces, with the Army. You mentioned yourself, but I will do it for the Minutes, that they have dealt with and made commitments that several of them have started to implement, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Tsironis, Mr. Sguridis, Mr. Apostleos, Mr. Lafazanis. We have dealt with and will continue to work. So the subject is at the heart of attention. The same to a large extent had been done for Arta recently. It's not that easy. For example, technically, I have been informed - and I believe that because I understand this - that if we do not really have the potential for absorption, absorption, in order to make it possible to measure ourselves, which is accurate, then it is not possible to divide and register in relation to the actual damage, compensation, etc. In other words, it is something that is evolving. The technical services have it in their programme and there will soon be a response. Also on the periphery's side have been gathered from the municipalities and elsewhere the recordings in relation to damage to infrastructure, homes, etc. The overall possibility of compensation has not yet been triggered. We'll move on. We'll push, we'll work together. This has already been done by the Ministry of Agriculture. They've moved on. That is right. Even more correctly, in my opinion, since the very first moment with responsibility and initiative of the Undersecretary, we have responded to the possibilities. I would point out, however, that on this issue, which is indeed very serious, for the theories which at a different time, from different causes, are hitting certain parts in the country, a substantial task must be done, so that every time we know that it is not just civil protection or a ministry. Others deal with kitchens, others deal with fields, others deal with bridges, others deal with income. This experience of services at some point has to be gathered to the good of the citizens and the public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karamanlis, here you go for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u32	Minister, you are absolutely right. This is not a simple matter. You will allow me some further points that I think can help. A long-term solution discussed with the Regional Director, Mr. Djitzkosta, was to become a major flooding project with funding from the new programming period. Announcements for these projects I think they'll be coming out in the next quarter. At the same time, however, I think we should see what we need to do in the medium term, now in the summer. See if there is any possibility, for example, that Strymon be cleansed of the firing matter and that the impurities be strengthened, so that we do not have the same phenomena of time. Many are concerned that cleaning is technically and difficult and dangerous. Lake Kerkin has been cleansed for decades. There is a concern as to whether a dredge can be entered because of the complex role of the lake, which is a irrigation reservoir, a flooding dredging and a significant water land. So, as you can see, there are some environmental restrictions. The other thing we need to see is the general management of the water resources of the county. In summer in several parts of the prefecture there are producers who have no water to water and in winter they flood their fields. Another aspect I would like to take into account is the management of water inflows from Bulgaria, which can be discussed at transnational level. That is why we need to discuss the problem with the waters of the Angite at interregional level. I'm telling you all this to have a picture. But in order for our fellow citizens to be informed, I have to ask you some clarifications. First of all, I think it is useful to have a timetable. We understand that the people who have suffered these disasters want to know even what the government's position is to answer them as to whether and to what extent they will ultimately be able to compensate them. That's true for everyone. However, it is much more true for those who have not yet grown. When do you think - although I do not think you can answer that, but the Agriculture Minister - that there will be a clear picture from the European Union? The second point I would like to make is that at the meeting we had with the presence of the State Secretary, Mr Kollia, there was an issue for a committee of technocrats to examine in depth such a problem. Unfortunately, the committees in Greece have the bad precedent of meeting but do not take decisions. I would therefore like an answer to this question whether this committee should be set up as quickly as possible to give a medium-term solution to start in the summer, but also to give a long-term solution to these flooding phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr Karamanlis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u34	I believe that the presence of the State Secretary guarantees that the commitments made by the Ministry of the Interior, but also by the other ministries, will be on the road to implementation as quickly as possible. I can't give you, obviously, precise dates. You realise that all this substance of regional development - because this issue you have raised and analysed - concerning water potential - and not only - in the region, it is a matter on which the region, too, has its views and its interventions, as a whole, regardless of the administration or the officer or other opposition, and the Ministry of Macedonia Thrace has general supervision and supervision. Indeed, the latter, as the State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, has the potential of horizontal mobilising mechanisms of technocrats, the activation of committees such as you said, so that in the long term, and not just in the short term, the outstanding issues you have raised are dealt with. For our part, I think that we are in a position to guarantee this, to make it public. We will do everything we can to ensure that we are always open to the proposals of the competent authorities, but also to the elected representatives of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. We enter the debate of the first under No 52-17-2015 topical question of the first cycle of MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on ensuring the publicity and protection of witnesses in the forthcoming trial of the Golden Dawn. The Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Paradopoulos. Here, Mrs Catrivanou, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as we know, the Golden Dawn trial is coming. It is a process of flagship to defend democracy against violence and neo-naziism for both Greece and internationally. It is a historic trial of absolute importance and it is our responsibility to ensure that it is carried out in the best way. They are the terms of democracy that we are being imposed on us. We have seen that in previous trials of the Golden Dawn, what is being done is actually flooded by members of the Golden Dawn, who prey, ravaging, terrorizing the witnesses, the lawyers, the public, the journalists. This affects all the atmosphere and the procedure of the trial as well as the judges. Now, this trial will be held in the area of Korydalos. We consider it to be an inappropriate area. It has reduced accessibility and why it is not in the center of Athens, but also because it is spatially in prison. It does not have the right space for the public, to have a large number of public, journalists, international observers and those who wish to be there, to ensure that the trial is publicised, which is a key element in informing the public on such a serious issue, which is avenged and at stake. Also, the prison site, in order for a trial to be held there, has certain unpleasant associations for a democratic city that prevents and the presence of the world. These are also written in their memorandum by the lawyers of civil law, Mr. Kabayannis, Mr. Zotos, Mr. Papadakis. We also have a memo from the Municipality of Korydallos where it mentions the difficulty of conducting the trial there. In the area there are schools, the road will be closed, children will not be able to go to schools and it is the same time that the pan-Hellenic exams take place. Therefore, it will create great disruption and malfunctions in the region. But our main concern is the precedent, namely that there is no proper infrastructure, the right space. It is not a central point and does not have the accessibility associated with this trial. And we have the following questions: Firstly, how will the public be assured of the presence and uninterrupted follow-up of the trial, of journalists, of international observers and of organisations? Secondly, why is the trial not being held at the Athens Court, which is the natural area of trial and is located in the center of Athens, accessible and in the surrounding area are courts, does it not generally disturb the neighborhood, disrupt anything, there is capacity and infrastructure for such a trial and is it clearly a more suitable place? Thirdly, will you ensure the timely and regular publicity of practices, which is a key issue in informing the citizens and in ensuring that the trial is conducted uninterrupted? This is a question of Greek society, democracy, but it is also an issue of international interest, as you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Nikolaos Paradiseopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with you, Madam President, that this is a trial of great importance. Of course, we are all aware that this is an extreme trial in terms of size. We had never dealt with the phenomenon of trials with such a large number of indictees and so many journalists and stakeholders about this trial. Therefore, our country in terms of infrastructure was unprepared and could not be prepared at the speed needed to deal with this trial, which appeared in modern times. The preparation of the trial in terms of space had certainly begun during the previous government, when Mr. Athanasios was at the Ministry of Justice. The preparation concerned exactly the space, which is available at the Court of Appeal from the Korydallos penitentiary. This area does have problems. That was obvious. In fact, when the day of the trial was approached, because it was identified for 20 April, there were various representations to the Ministry of Justice over my term of office that presented these problems and asked for a different solution. I addressed orally to the President of the Court of Appeal, but very quickly came the answer from the competent three-member Council of the Athens Court, which stated that the trial would be held in the women's room of Korydallos, where this court will meet. An oral explanation was that the Council, of the sevens it was expected that the conduct of this trial would constitute a more general disturbance in the functioning of that court and arrhythmia. So we're in a state of emergency. Although Korydallos and the Court of Appeal have problems, it is not easy to find a third site and we have to choose between these two. In view of the fact that the procedures for conducting the trial in Korydalos have been initiated and the calls of the players of the administration, of the defendants, of the witnesses, have been sent, at the moment despite the problems the space actually has in Korydalos, cannot change the Chamber. I agree with you on the problems. The problems will exist not only in the environment - and they have caused the mayor and local society to protest - but of course they are also capacity problems. The room, which has been prepared or prepared, will have a hundred and fifty three seats of the audience, a hundred and twenty-eight seats for lawyers and in next room, with the possibility of monitoring the procedure with visual material, will be the area of journalists. Of course these are problematic conditions for a trial, but I think it is difficult to find an alternative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Catrivanu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u40	First of all, I would like to thank you for the honesty and the way you approach the issue, recognising the problem that exists. We believe that, although there is this option to move to the Korydallos area, you must rethink very seriously that it will be a long-term trial, which will cause many problems in the region. Accessibility will not be possible in the way we want. We have a responsibility to carry out the trial on the best terms and to ensure that the public who wants to watch it, to watch it, and to the journalists who want to go, to go. Also, the area is deserved. There have been too many attacks there either on the fishermen in Perama or against the FAME. It's the whole area in trouble. This trial - which is so eccentric and with such importance for the Hellenic Republic - needs to be held in the centre and indistinguishably. You also didn't answer me for the Minutes. I consider it very crucial that there should be a meeting in practice which will be held and made public in both Greece and internationally. This is important both in order to be able to monitor them as citizens, but also in order to ensure the proper conduct of the trial, so that we can have a democratic environment for the conduct of the trial. We are constantly receiving calls from international observers who are concerned about how to conduct the trial and how to get the Minutes, so that the international society can be informed of what is going on in Greece and how we are dealing with the neonazi violence and this criminal organisation. That is why we consider the issue of the Minutes to be very crucial. Also, as you know, both the lawyers and the residents of Korydallos and the conditions really guide that better choice, no matter how much this is done, is now the center, the Court of Appeal, and not the remote area of the prisons in Korydalos with all the reports, all the problems, all the difficulties that will be related to the procedure for this trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u41	Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Nikolaos Paradopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Catrivanou, the possibility of changing the Chamber does not exist at this time. However, what can be the only way out of the way to find solutions to the problems you raise, is on the first day of the trial, or at the beginning, to raise the matter before the court, if one of the parties to the trial finally finds that the President will have the power to postpone proceedings - if there are no appropriate conditions - in order to find another solution. The Ministry of Justice will certainly have the responsibility of preparing an alternative, which at the moment does not exist. As regards technical preparation for the trial, the minutes or the way in which the witnesses are examined, I must tell you that, for the second time at least, there is a preparation that goes ahead and I think we will be ready. Of course, compliance with the minutes by recording means a very large cost, for which we are not ready for the moment, and I fear that we will not be able to respond to this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. The third question will now be discussed under number 50/16-3-2015 of the second question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the oligopoly demonstrated by the authorities responsible for dealing with paedophilia. Mr. Panayotarou's timely question will be answered by the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Nikolaos Paradopoulos. Here, Mr Panayotare, you have the reason to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, before entering the question, I would like to mention once again the fact that this House operates with fewer than three hundred Members. It's a matter of your Ministry's responsibilities. Foreigners to Parliament continue to influence and impose their will. It is something that should be solved for the benefit of parliament, democracy and institutions. As for the question, when this timely question about paedophilia was tabled, it was timely. It's been a month. Unfortunately, however, this issue remains very topical in the unpleasant sense of the term and now will remain, even if drastic measures are not taken. The timely question we tabled has some evidence on it. I can read to you a few: the occasion was this unacceptable incident with the forty-year-old pedophile from the Pedophile, who, when he was arrested, had been pending a judicial decision against him, which had never been executed, because the Prosecutor had sent the file to the competent police on this matter. The litigation somewhere has gone and nothing has happened, and if it hadn't been arrested, it would continue this unacceptable and trissathy work by the pedophile of Peristeri, who all knew him in the neighborhood. It all retrospectively came out in the forum. They had repeatedly written in his shop with a spray what this man does and no one “has sweated.” The statistics are dramatic. 99% of all cases of paedophilia - there are too many people accused of paedophilia, ninety-eight people from 2003 until now, of whom only fifty-five - 99% of these cases arrive at the court end up in condemnation of the pedophile or pedophile. Legislation exists, but it is not respected. The 'walkers' are too much and we see that they are continuing their work unnecessarily. More stringent measures must be taken and we would like your position on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u46	Mr Papoutsis, your question in the first part relates to legislation and the second to a real issue that has arisen. As far as legislation is concerned, I think we cannot discuss criminal treatment of paedophiles, given that we have legislation that does not punish individuals or types of people, but acts, so we need to talk about punishing perpetrators of concrete acts. I think that our legislation includes all the arsenal that is required to punish acts which affect minors, paedophiles or, as described by our criminal law, acts of seduction. Seduction is a crime that is severely punished. It is even punished by life imprisonment, if it is deadly, but also by other heavy penalties, which are classified according to the victim’s age. The same chapter of our criminal law also includes many other acts, some of which have been developed in modern times and have enriched the Criminal Code, which punishes all the persuasive forms of attack on young people with crimes that have been sexually content. Of course, I am referring particularly to minor perpetrators. However, the real issue you have raised really raises a problem that has existed. I asked the competent authorities to inform them that there was no timely mobilisation of the prosecution mechanism in the direction you indicate, that the first prosecution brought about in this case was carried out in rem, i.e. against an unknown perpetrator and on the basis of which it existed, with the result that the public prosecutor and the competent authorities were somewhat reassured. Meanwhile, the police proceeded via Facebook and discovered the perpetrator. However, when he returned to the prosecutor's office, the case-file proceeded as if the offender were still unknown, i.e. at a rate of law against an unknown person. That was not right, and that is why a sworn administrative examination has been launched, to see if there are any responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. You have answered the question of criminal liability. It is very serious that there are no such tragedies and unacceptable incidents in the future. Unfortunately, the issue of paedophilia is something that concerns not only Greece, but the whole world. The most important weapon of paedophiles, as we know, is the internet. There are millions of websites with child pornography content. False IP phenomena are too much. However, the prosecution authorities have shown that if there is will, everything can be solved. There could be changes to the existing articles in the Criminal Code, adding others, further tightening the penalties. Life imprisonment is provided if, as you have said, the result is deadly. I mean, if it's not deadly, maybe the shooter can take her out with one, two, three, or four years. I read here in the relevant article that in the case of child pornography imprisonment can even reach ten years. If the passion has not completed 10 years, at least 10 years of imprisonment is provided for and it goes by saying. And we see many phenomena, which in the past have been condemned, when the process arrives after many years at the audience and ends, ends, and ends, and in some strange way, after a few years, they find themselves free and commit the same sick passions. From there on, we see that there are global mobilisations. Reading on the Internet - and not only - we see that in Russia Medvedev proposed the chemical castration of those proven to be paedophiles - paedophiles, while in England Prime Minister David Cameron proposed that paedophiles be treated as terrorists. So we see that there is a tendency to tighten up this problem. It is something that Greece should move in too, in order to save the worst. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u50	I'll just say two words. The penalty for seduction, and when it's not deadly, when the victim is a very young victim, reaches twenty years. So one can say that it has sufficient rigour. Otherwise, the legal work for the Criminal Code will also be mobilised, which will see the sentences carefully again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. The next questions are addressed to the Minister, Mr Stathakis. But we have high attractions from the beautiful Xanthi that I must announce! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th Xanthi High School. The House welcomes you. We wish you health and all good! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with a second question with number 45/16-3-2015 on the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on technical integration and the final tradition of the project of Corinth - Kalamata - Sparta. Mr. George Stathakis will answer. Mr Davakis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I would once again, unfortunately, like to raise an issue for all the inhabitants of the Peloponnese and particularly for the areas from which the Corinth-Kalamata-Sparta-Sparta route passes. It is a project of which we have ratified the contract eight years ago in this Chamber, with the concessionaire and on the basis of newspaper publications, and on the basis of the surrounding atmosphere, as it has seen recently, it creates a slap in terms of its performance. It is therefore essential for all of us in this Chamber to clarify what is happening with this project, when it will be completed and attributed to its natural recipient, who is the Greek citizen, the citizen of the Peloponnese. Local authorities, the Peloponnese Region and, in particular, the Vice-President of Laconia and the Mayor of Sparta are pressing vigorously in this direction, but all the citizens of the region are asking us all to know what is happening. The various rumours that exist come to the project's problem, as regards the economic crisis that has occurred since 2008-2009 and the low diffuseness from tolls, where citizens' bruising strengthened and financed the project. In any case, what we will all be judged for, Mr Minister, is the result. And the result is that the road, which has been completed by 95% - I repeat 95% - must finally be put into circulation. I think that you will be the 'accident', let us say this, if this is the case for your day, which is agitating all of us and asking the people of the Peloponnese a huge question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. As you know, this is a project which has a budget - cost EUR 844 million and has been carried out so far, according to the independent engineer, 92.8% of the project. The procedure for the amendment of the provisions of the concession agreement, which was ratified in 2007, is under way. The reason why the need to amend the contract was because we had a significant fall in revenue compared to what had been foreseen by the financial model of the concession agreement. The lending banks, led by the European Investment Bank, urgently request revision of the concession agreement, to ensure the repayment of the loans in the event of a further drop in revenue. The Greek State on 27-06-2013 made a decision and by letter from the Finance and Infrastructure Ministers, Transport and Networks has declared to the European Investment Bank that it will support the project despite the fall in revenue. This raises - as you know - substantial compensation, which will obviously be borne by the public. The European Commission has approved the restructuring measures in the concession agreement, it has been submitted to the Court of Auditors for further amendments and the Court of Auditors has requested additional clarifications in the framework of the pre-contractual audit of the draft agreement amending the provisions of the concession agreement. In these additional clarifications, we are at this very stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Mr Davakis has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u56	Minister, I am pleased to hear your reply, because these additional explanations from the Court of Auditors on the amendment to the Convention are being heard for several months. I would say that the services of the Ministry of Infrastructure should ask the Court of Auditors for better coordination on this matter, since we are all concerned - I think it is absolutely up to you and to us - when this work will finally be delivered, in particular the Lefktro - Sparta project, which is essentially completed and which remains the diagrams and some other interventions by the roads. It's something unexplainable. The gears of bureaucracy go into both the administrative and the courts. This must finally be done - and that is why you have also taken a fresh people's mandate - with the momentum which you see as a new government, to be disturbed. Because when we say that we expect the Court of Auditors to determine and proceed with the additional conditions, you understand - I am afraid - that this will be a long time ago. In addition, I would like to say that during the implementation of this project and especially in the neighbouring region - where there are villages, there is rural life, there is movement, there are people who live from the rural economy - that road has brought about significant changes in the infrastructure, irrigation networks, rural roads and all that make up the activity of these people in their fields, in their place, in their crops. I would therefore like you to have a cooperation not with me, but with the local authorities, the Municipality of Sparta, the local councils of the Communities in Taygetos, from which this road passes. They could give you some clarifications and ask you, in the official Greek state, to make some comments on the improvements to their fields, on their crops and on irrigation networks, which have long been destroyed by road crossings. Negative networks have been destroyed, roads have been destroyed because of the crossing of heavy vehicles to build the road. You understand this road has gone like a truffle. It will create a favourable outlook for the region, but on the other hand it has hit many of these specific infrastructures. I would therefore like to have an answer on this. Before I close, I would also like to ask the Minister to finally tell us what time horizon this road will be delivered to traffic. Can he give a timeline? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like you to explain to me the recent statements - and I ask you for your tolerance for a few seconds, Mr President - of your colleague Minister, Mr Spirtzi, yesterday, that - and I quote - 'the government's pursuit and political position are the contracts with concessionaires to be revised in order to include social indicators of project costs'. It is something that creates a further, I would say, confusion, since this may create a halt to the progress of work, in addition to what is expected from the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u58	I think it must be clear that the current government was critical of the concessions of the motorways. And it seems that we are right because, as you know, the simultaneous development of all the motorways in the country with bank lending, designed and implemented before the 2008 crisis, led to the vast majority of the motorways "on the rocks". The financial models of motorways have therefore collapsed. A revision was made last year, which provides for greater public contribution and risk and participation to complete the projects. We are committed to the completion of projects. From there, however, to go to this project, the amount of subsidy from the Greek State that is called upon to pay additionally is EUR 330 million for a project of EUR 844 million. That government, which ensures in the public interest, will obviously eliminate any possibility of improving, revising, reducing operating costs, lowering interest rates, no additional charges to users, the payment of the concessionaires' commitments, an attempt to reduce the total cost in order to defend the public interest. With light of heart, we will not go to give 330 million in the name of the completion of the project, which we all agree, of its feasibility, where we all agree, of the effects of the positive it may have, for which we all agree. But we will also act on the basis of exactly the mandate given to us by the Greek people, in what we have received from us to optimise, in whatever way we can, the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Minister. The fourth question under number 63/20-3-2015, first question by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the problems of the railway transport of Volos - Larissa, will not be discussed and deleted. The fifth will now be discussed under number 57/17-2015, a topical question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Social Solidarity, on the continuation of the work of METRO Thessaloniki. The Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism will answer Mr. George Stathakis. Mr Vardalis has the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that the subway of Thessaloniki has been planted. The delays are known, I guess. I'm not going to make a detailed regression. However, we need to remember that this is a project that was auctioned in 2003, it started construction in 2006 was to be delivered in 2012, it took four years of extension and is expected to be delivered in November 2016, which, in our view, is impossible. And it is impossible, given that we are in March 2015 and it is not even completed by 50% of the project, but it is around 46-47%. Moreover, these days, and now that we are discussing the project once again, it has stopped, causing problems. I'm not just talking about the city's transport problems. I am referring above all to the self-employed traders, whose shops are around construction sites, but also to workers who are made redundant. Already the AEGEC has made fifty redundancies and is about to fire everyone else. The result of all this is this: in fact, workers, self-employed traders, and a total infarction in the city. On the other hand, the profits of the construction company have been guaranteed and the cost of the project has been detonated. So we ask, Minister, namely, what the government is thinking about, so that the construction of the project can be relaunched immediately and that all these measures can be taken so that it can continue unintentionally, stop workers' redundancies, take back what has already been done - I referred to the fifty - and, of course, ensure that all workers with full rights for all. I say this, and we ask about this, because in the past they have been made redundant from this work and have been re-entered with worse wages and working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. The Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Mr. Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u62	As you know, it is a project that has been through large and many adventures. The ‘ATTIC MEASURES’ took over the construction in 2003 as a classic public project. In April 2006, following the tendering procedure for the award of the project with the scheme, the construction contract was signed between ATTIF and the AIASA contracting consortium, which included the execution of a complementary geotechnical research and the preparation of the studies. Already since the beginning of the project, the contractor’s standing position and a permanent point of friction with the ‘ATTIF’ was the contractual technical object, which corresponds to the flat-rate price, that is to say, that is to say, in his technical offer. Therefore, any subsequent amendment should be compensated, in addition to the flat rate. As regards the costs of the archaeological work, it has been underestimated, as has been shown in retrospectively. The original envelope of archaeological work was 15 million. Today 88 million have been spent, and according to the estimates of the Ministry of Culture, it will amount to 132 million. The ‘ATTIF’ has so far managed to ensure that the additional allocation is financed through two additional contracts. The first provides for 41.8 million and the second 25 million and has been approved and is expected to be signed by the contraaor if it expresses its intention to continue the work. It should be noted that the overall difficult economic environment has in some cases been suspended for the companies making up the consortium. In order to compensate for the liquidity problems faced by the contractor, which have deteriorated further over the past five years, legislation has been promoted with the n. As a percentage, the total amount for the new public works is the same as for the new ones. In order to speed up - resolve the disputes and claims of the contractor that had been referred to justice following their rejection by the "ATTIF", legislative arrangements were promoted with Mr. 4155/2013 and 4264/2014, in order to resolve matters through arbitration. On 1/12-2014, the first arbitration decision on critical disagreement 66 was adopted, which considered by a majority that the extension granted by the ‘ATTIF’ to the total period up to 25-11-2016 was deemed unlawful and, in particular, for the period beyond 1 December 2014, the date which, at the decision on arbitration, is the project limit and the contractor may withdraw, if he so wishes, requesting the dissolution of the contract, which it did on 16-12-2014. As the project's limitation period does not give rise to any reason to the conclusion of the contract, the managing department, by reasoned decision rejected the contractor's request on 30-12-2014. Against this decision, the contraaor objected to the lead authority now on 13-01-2015, which is currently being examined by the ATTIF. During the period of finding a solution, the EAGF has denounced the subcontracting agreement with the consortium and initiated the process of collective redundancies, following provisions of the contract. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On 21-01-2015, as you rightly said, forty-nine workers, who have been fully and fully paid and are still two hundred, who are currently employed, while the others take part in the 2015 licence. The issue, at the request of the Association of Workers in the construction sector of "METRO THESSALONIKI" is being examined by the Department of Labour Relations Inspectorate of the Ministry of Labour, where the legality of mass redundancies is controlled in accordance with the provisions of the Law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vardalis, you have the same time to second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u64	Minister, with all due respect you will allow me to say that what we have heard today is not an answer to the specific questions we have raised. Of course, the problems that have arisen in the construction of the project have been blurred, but, in any case, the city and all of us are aware of that. The question is what we're going to do now. How will it continue? What initiatives will the government take so that the work can continue uninterruptedly, that no worker can be made redundant and that everyone who is needed is recruited so that this project can be carried out? The second thing I want to say to you is this: taking into account the answer you gave to a question we asked about twenty days ago - about the same things you said to us today - we have the feeling that there is an attempt to disorientate from the main cause responsible for the delays in this project. In fact, this effort was exploited by local players in Thessaloniki to deepen a conflict between "ATIO METRO S.A.", the Municipality of Thessaloniki and other bodies, that is to say, one to lay the blame on the other, while the real cause lies elsewhere. The real cause lies in the activities of the major construction groups and their efforts to ensure maximum profitability. There is the problem, and as a Communist Party of Greece, what we are proposing as a solution is - and it has also been proven through the development of this project, namely the metro of Thessaloniki - the need for a single state construction entity. Of course, we don't have any delusion. We do not propose this in order for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to implement it, because we believe that there is a need for more general breaches and another power in the hands of the people, which will plan to develop the economy in its own interests. We are making this proposal to the people and, in this regard, to the workers and the poor people of Thessaloniki, in order to make it their request and fight, so that in a way that the road can be opened in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Minister, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u66	I would just like to say one word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u67	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u68	Look, it is a project, which - I repeat - has suffered enormous suffering. However, we will all recognise - and we must recognise - that it is not a project, which has been designed with haste. It is a project that predicted that study and construction could initially be done in six years. I would remind you that we know that line 4 of Athens subway we know that it took eight years of study and six years of construction, recognizing the special role of archaeological findings. It was therefore expected that in a city such as Thessaloniki, which counts twenty - three centuries of history, it would require extensive archaeological research. It's not an easy answer. We inherit a situation which is unresolved. We recognize it. However, in cooperation with METRO S.A., it is our duty to take all the relevant initiatives in every direction to radically address all the problems of the project, to keep up the work, to complete it as soon as possible and to make full use of European funds. So we are talking about a complete redesign, which will enable both the project to be carried out and to reduce the suffering of the citizens and to ensure, of course and without a second word, jobs for a project that will mitigate unemployment and have a huge impact on Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister. The first question under number 76/24-3-2015 of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary State of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Agalias Kryritsis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the malfunctioning of the payment of obligations in the past years of the Municipality of Kalymnos, but also of many other municipalities in the country, will not be discussed due to lack of competence and deleted. The responsibility lies with the Ministry of Finance. We enter the debate of the fourth under number 59/17-2015 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on direct and substantial assistance to the flood victims in the region of Epirus and Itolokarnania. The question will be answered by the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Mr. George Stathakis. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, indeed, anger and indignation prevails among the inhabitants of Epirus, Itoloakarnania, but also in other regions of the country affected by severe rainfall, particularly at the end of Genoa, the Flevaris authorities. The inhabitants of the region of Epirus and Ioannina were confronted - unprotected - with the severe weather phenomena from the total lack of measures to prevent flooding and infrastructure projects in general in the area for the protection and safety of their homes, their crops. In particular, damage to the place of Arta, Minister, is incalculable and in many cases we have a total disaster. We have been particularly devastated in homes of poor old-built people or in houses made with materials which literally dissolved the volume of water. There are also huge damages to household appliances. The Minister of Interior left, Mr. Voutsis, who said measures were taken in Arta. Minister, you promised - especially for the packages - the EUR 586. The people of the region have not taken a single euro. We have disasters in the agricultural sector as well, but you will be unreserved to answer them. But we also have damages to historical bridges, such as the Plaka Bridge in the Jumerkas that collapsed other bridges, such as the Abruzzi Bridge and the Tebla Bridge. In our question, we are referring extensively and nominally to every region which has suffered enormous catastrophes and to all regional units. We are also referring to the Regional Unity of Arta and the Regional Unit of Ioannina - there is enormous damage, especially to the provincial and rural road networks - and to the Municipal Region of Preveza. But also in Ioannina, in the Community of Clepa, Minister, which I shall refer to in my dentistry, there are major problems. We have homes that have been judged inappropriate and people stay inside. Of course, we have no delusion that there could be projects in the capitalist way that would protect the inhabitants of the region and also of the country in general. Why really, these projects in all the NSRF programmes are coming out, because they do not have great profits for major contractors for the construction groups. Minister, we ask tonight that you give an answer to what you promised, not you personally, but a step forward in the coup d'état that visited Arta. We call for compensation for all damages, especially construction, and for money to be paid for in order to restore housing. We are immediately calling for the contributions of the people affected to be frozen in OAUs, OGAs, banks, and for there to be no indebtedness and interest on debts that they have. We are asking for an end to confiscation and discharge procedures from municipal fees. We are calling for sufficient funding to be provided for flooding projects from the state budget and for all services to be staffed, not just to record, but to start these projects immediately. We also call on these regions to take action in the field of health, because the people of the region are facing serious problems. In particular, we ask PPC to take action, because it is the main responsibility - I will say it in dentistry - for the great damage that has been done because of Pournarios on the Arachthos river. There, indeed, the inhabitants are angry because they believe that the large part of the disaster was caused by the hydroelectric dam in Puernari on the Arachthos river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, I can answer some questions. There is a division of responsibilities between the ministers. Are we going to abolish him, Mr. President? I don't know if that's our target. Some of the issues concern support for floods through the freezing of debts by taxes, banks, etc. That is the responsibility of Mr Varoufakis. The questions you raised concerning PPC and some others, obviously, are the responsibility of Mr Lafasan. I shall therefore answer the questions, which concern me, the restoration of damage and the flood damage, and what is needed, in order to restore the damage which has been done. As you know, the damage was extensive. What we have done to the Ministry is to follow the process as quickly as possible as possible. Naturally, the Restoration Department for Natural Disaster Effects is responsible for restoring damage. The joint Ministerial Decision describes an area affected, as'suffered'. That's what's happened. In the second stage, on the basis of the estimates made by this agency, a draft joint ministerial decision demarcating the affected areas and laying down measures for both housing and restoring the damage to the buildings. The stage at which we are at the moment is precisely the preparation of the joint ministerial decision, which will answer this question. Secondly, there is the issue of anti-military protection. Here, we have design, study, construction and maintenance of anti-military works as you know. This is the responsibility of the region. However, in order to strengthen the efforts of regions to tackle exceptional flood disasters, our Ministry is considering joining the 2015 Public Investment Programme, namely: Firstly, the anti-military protection of Artas and the wider area that passes through the Arachthos river to the Gulf, with an estimated fee of EUR 5 million. Secondly, urgent studies of anti-military works in the laws of Epirus - Arta, Preveza, Thesprotia and Ioannina - about three million euros. Thirdly, drawing up a register of existing anti-military works at the West Central and Epirus Apartments about one million euros. These are our commitments right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Minister. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u74	Minister, I told you why the residents are indignant. Because apart from the weather phenomena, they are also confronted with the impoverishment of the government. When he visited the affected areas, the government had then committed itself directly to these 586 euro crumbs. Not a single euro was given. Leave it to him if you're in charge. I think co-government is a single one. The beekeepers had promised that compensation would be given by the end of March. They didn't get a single euro! Minister, as soon as cameras and cameras were missing, the residents were literally left in their luck. That's the reality. As far as various damages are concerned, particularly in the Community of the mountainous Napakia I have mentioned, there is a serious issue of the risk and protection of human life. This question has been tabled for about a month, and you have answered us here with a number of documents recording the problems, but in fact you have not taken a single measure! So, we ask you: should these residents, who are in prepared houses which had been declared unfit by the Town Planning, wait? And it's not only these six residents' houses, it's also a lot of other houses. Some have taken their things and had the opportunity to be transferred from this community. But that's not enough, Minister. This community is blocked. There is no road to the village and people are forced to walk over a long distance, especially students and people with other needs in the area. On bridges, especially on the Abruzzi Bridge, which joins Ietolokarnia with Karditsa and Evrytania, residents and farmers have been cut off by themselves, through various means, to make rough constructions, to carry either food to animals or other needs they have. Therefore, there is no State protection for projects requiring direct intervention. Minister, I would first like you to see that Mr Lafazanis is competent - to understand that there is an indignation in the area, because PPC, which operates on private economic criteria for the production of a few kilowatts, not for human needs, but to fill the shareholders' funds, did not quickly open the doors of launch, although there was provision from the Meteorological Service for these phenomena. He opened the doors when a large volume of water was gathered, so we have these disasters. There is also something else happening in this area: From information that is not cross-checked at the moment, there are factors, up to Members - not from the JRC, as you can see - that encourages residents to go to legal offices and sue PPC. That is what our people say: 'Where they owed us, they took us the ox'! You mentioned some measures that you'll take for the Ambrose. Do you know that for the Purnier Dam there is a strong protest from the local residents? When the KKE Secretary-General visited the area, it was said at a convention that the construction of the hydroelectric dam in Arachthos, Puernari, has created huge problems in the Ambracian. It does not take bearables, it does not rejuvenate the waters of the Ambrokian, so at the moment that we are talking about the three Arta, Preveza and Istanbul, from the four and a half thousand fishermen there are only four hundred fifty. From the Purnier Dam, the water intensity has drawn a whole dump and entered the Ammracian Bay, Minister, with the result that huge pollution problems are created in the region. We believe that there is an abandonment and that the coup d'état has not responded to anything. Like I said, the promises are over when the cameras were erased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr Moraite. Would you like to add something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u76	I am going to stand by two points: there is a procedure which the government cannot go far enough. This is the procedure for how damages are reflected and how compensation is given. For the process of compensation, we have two tools, with which we can quickly and easily give money and can be justified by people. I fully share everything you have said about the extent of disasters and the intolerable conditions under which they were created. The first process is through the Public Investment Programme. We did everything we could, we incorporated all the projects we have been able to do right now. There is a constant debate and a constant dialogue with the regional authorities in the regions affected. We are also seeking a second source, which only concerns the continent. There is an effort, when we are ready, in other words within the three months provided for in the procedure, to ask for exceptional financial assistance from the European Union Solidarity Fund, for the region of Epirus and for the Regional Units of Aetolakarnania and Evrytania. For this to happen, it needs to be recorded that the losses exceed 0.5% of local GDP. An extensive effort is being made to integrate, and in this case we will be able to proceed with substantial projects, counter-floods and others, which will restore the enormous damage to the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", eighteen students and students and two teachers attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Archangelos Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that by the decision of the President of Parliament of 26 March 2015 (no. 4598/2835/27-3-2015) the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee was set up to claim German debts (war allowances, corrections, repayment of the loan, reimbursement of the stolen archaeological treasures). The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u78	I have two more communications to this House. Mr Georgios Kasapidis, MP Kozani of the New Democracy, is requested permission from a short-day absence abroad for his transition to Taivan from 15-4-2015 to 21-4-2015, following a call from the Taipei Permanent Representation in Greece. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u79	The House approved the requested permission. Also, PASOK's MP Georgios Arvanitidis seeks permission from the work of today's Parliament, Monday, March 30, 2015, to go abroad for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u80	The House approved the requested permission. We enter the sixth question under number 48/16-3-2015 of the second question from the MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the financing of the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources. The question will be answered by the Minister, George Stathakis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since 2013, and in order to strengthen measures to tackle poverty, the impact of the crisis, resources from the European Social Fund have been made available, through the Operational Programme 'Surveying Human Resources', in order to support some seventy thousand poor families in our country, the sixty-seven largest municipalities, through structures that have been created, where around a thousand workers work. This programme was defined in accordance with the end of the current programming period, which expires. Given that the regional operational programmes, which in the new period will be able to support these structures, were not yet ready to finance these actions, I requested in October 2014 by letter of October 2014 to the managing authority that the programme should be extended by six months in order to link it to the start of the new regional operational programmes. In November, the necessary decision was adopted and the programme was extended by six months and the accession decisions were gradually amended so that the new data could be financed by these structures. There seems to be a gap, which may be due to various bureaucratic malfunctions or to the change in the management of the system. However, we have to deal with this because, for example, since January, the structure of Heraklion - for which I am putting the question in question - is not really working. Workers don't work. The entities involved in the structure put everything they had, but they cannot further support this activity. When it comes to two and a half thousand poor people in Heraklion and thirty-three workers, we must overcome all bureaucratic obstacles, wherever it is due. I believe, in other words, that the first time has passed, the Tsipras - Kammenos government - which is the current government - has been informed and is not justified today, because you have been aware of this for at least a month. I want, Minister, to have a concrete response to the workers and, above all, to the operators, so that, if they have the financial capacity, they can support themselves with their own money until the disbursement takes place, but know that this process will be completed and will not remain void. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. It's a sensitive matter. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. The only delay concerns a scheme that has changed under the 2014 Act. In particular, as defined by Mr. See recitals 4270/2014 and CSR 46274/2014. So there is a law that provided for a change of procedure from 1-1-2015 and this change required an amendment to the decision to include the project to extend the operation to which Mr Kegeroglu referred. The third instalment of financing has already been allocated since 2014. It was automatically transferred to the Public Investment Programme of 2015. There is only a slight delay because of the need to amend the accession decision. The project will be completed properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u85	The amendment to include the project, Minister, was indeed signed on 22 January, because the duration of the previous programme expired on those days. From 22 January, however, until today - three days or two, if you wish, with the previous Government of Samara - Venizelos, as you say in your document, in writing, in the official document of the Ministry and the rest of the current Government of Tsipras - Kammenos, in a similar manner to yours - there is no justification for delay. Whatever happens cannot be delayed in supporting poverty structures. But the Director, the Secretary-General, the Minister, whoever says that the obstacles are inexorable, should be overcome in this particular case. There's no other way! That is why a short payment and submission and evaluation were provided for in this procedure because it concerns this sensitive issue. I am in your commitment that the programme will be completed, but I ask you to be in a position to tell us, in time, when you will be paid - if you will - and this payment for the specific network of the Municipality of Heraklion of EUR 112 000 so that there is no gap and not to say to those who are based, fed, dressed by this structure that there is a bureaucracy for which the same director or director or MEP is responsible. I would like you to tell me whether we can tell them something more specific, so that they too can take a risk, so that the workers can work and of course support the two and a half thousand, almost poor people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u87	Look, as far as the time is concerned, the answer is: Immediately. As you know, the priority of dealing with poverty, unemployment and exclusion is at the moment a priority concern for the government, which is currently preparing an extended programme to deal with these three issues, on the basis of the programme which it will now present in the Commission, based on the 2 billion-dollar programme which emerged from the Yunger meeting with the Prime Minister. It is therefore a direct priority. It's the most important axis. I think that the answer to this question is there: there is a delay under the regime of changing certain conditions. From that point on, we will proceed immediately. As far as the second part of the programme, as you know, has been included in the MAGPs and therefore the continuation of the action has been ensured not only for now, but also for the 2014-2020 programming period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister sent the President of Parliament the following document: ‘Subject: “Governmental change” Madam President, we have the honour to beg as you tell this House that: A) By the 26/21-3-2015 Presidential Decree, published at the FEK 30/21-3-2015 (cf. A), the resignation submitted by Dimitrios Army of Ioannis was accepted from the position of Deputy Minister of Health and was relieved of his duties. B) By the 27/21-3-2015 Presidential Decree, published in FEK 31/21-3-2015 (v. A) the following were appointed: 1) Anastasia Christododoulou, Zacharia, at the place of Deputy Minister of the Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. 2) Christos Spirtzis of Panagiotis in place of Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism. 3) Constantine Fotakis of Emmanuel in place of Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs. 4) Dimitrios Army of Ioannis as Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. The Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras’
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, on this point, at the request of the Minister and the honourable Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, Parliament's permission is requested to enter the last debate today on the fifth under the second-cycle question number 62-19-3-2015, which was scheduled to be discussed after the Special Agenda. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u90	Therefore, we enter the debate of the fifth under number 62-19-3-2015, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the auctioning of the section "Patras - Tower" of the "Olympia Odos". Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, what can I say now in front of you, an Iliotic politician, about a road that goes beyond and what is being devastated is happening to make the Arta Bridge! We're talking about Olympia, but it's not enough for Olympia to reach the Tower, of course, it's not enough in the Good Water. To the satisfaction of national contractors, however, those who continue to play various games these days with the government, at the same price, build part of the road only, until Patras. However, the residents of Achaea and Elias - and not only, but Messinia - were amazed that the official decision on the cancellation of the Patras-Pyrgos motorway tender, which was set for the end of March, was being informed. Minister, today, on the occasion of the question, I was invited by most radios in the region, my constituency and also in the wider region. Priority was given to the "symmetrical" of former coexistence. Honestly, I was losing my words by listening to the good colleagues who until yesterday had the responsibility to ask for the change. I really expect the President-in-Office to tell us what was the main reason why things did not go ahead. We've heard a lot of reasons. There was a meeting under Mr. Stathakis. Mr. Spirtzis has accepted other bodies. I hear that in the next few days you will call - and you will do - all operators. But you know, it doesn't change anything. Still the dominant question hasn't been answered, what made you a few days before canceling a tender? Do I need to make arguments about the necessity of this road axis, about its great contribution to the local and wider economy, or about the many victims? Just the day before yesterday, two more young people lost their lives. Every year, the number of people who leave their last breath there or who leave wounded is excessive. It looks like a battlefield. Minister, today everyone is waiting with great interest to tell us from here, from the official Step of the House, if so, you are considering the fragmentation of the work and tell us why you are doing so. If you tell us that you are doing so to prove that the mosaics of Agia Sophia are cheaper than the specific project, which the national contractors are doing - or the "MOREAS" - that did not go back the cost of that contractor - do it, let us see if they are going to have a look at taking part in the new auction of small sections, to which other companies will come. Mr President, four days ago, with regard to the remaining part of the ERGOSE - a small section before reaching Patras - an unknown Italian company, among other things, took part in an international 'ERGOSE' competition and gave a 45% discount. I came here 15 times. I've filed a report. The inspectors have gone. However, they gave a 2% discount to a previous section of the Panagopula area. So, I'm waiting for you to tell us if we're gonna see this. Are we going to meet in front of this tragic surprise? Moreover, people are concerned that this multi-stage will lead to a very long delay. So they want to know, if you break the work, will you take it off the same day, and what will this day be? Will it be soon? You said you're seeing the studies again. He's here, he says, and METKA of Mr. Mytilinaeus. You see, everyone's in the plays now, they're all multi-practical! He even objected to it going to the Competition Committee. Is that true? Tell us. There's a lot going on. This government tells truths no matter how much they hurt. Please tell us what the truth is today. Are you going to move on to the new engraving, to the south engraving? For many years now, all political leaders have admitted that there, in a strip of land, in a beautiful tourist area - Midigli, Brachneika - they cannot pass three, four roads and the rail network. Since you have now made such a decision, perhaps, there is no question of delay. Finally, tell us about the resources. Was it problematic to fund the project? Were they lying to us? Were the resources not secure? I imagine that you will give me, Mr President, as Elios, your tolerance and secondaryity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. It is a crucial issue, Minister. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Nicolopoulou, you know the history of this work very well. The project was one of the motorways stopped by its funding and, perhaps, a project that, when reviewing old contracts for the continuation of projects - which, as you know, had stopped three - four years ago - was out of the question as unsustainable. The previous government, after the project came out of review and European funding - I stress this, European funding - expressed the thought and brought it along with the revision of the other conventions, that it would be done through national resources. Everyone knows that this was a move which did not ensure, firstly, that resources exist, secondly, that the project can proceed under these conditions. The second feature of the project was that they were auctioning it through a specific process, a process - copying the old way of auctioning all the works of this kind. We did two things, and that is why the issue of postponing the project notice was raised. The first has to do with guaranteeing its funding by joining the next PCA, that is, the 2014-2020 Pact, so if it has guaranteed its funding. The second issue that arises concerns the modifications and improvements to the tendering procedures, so that the project is fairer, more effective and more compatible with our aim of building projects and an expanded range of businesses, which can be involved in these projects, apart from the three companies that are generally involved in these projects. These were the two intentions that we moved on with. The third issue, as you ask me in your question, is whether or not it is about the region of the municipal districts of Brachneikos - Beach. There I will assure you that there will be no new engraving. The Council of State has recently taken a decision, so there is no question of road relapsing, which would in fact create huge problems in its implementation. So we move forward as it is, we are studying and reopening the tender in a way that is more compatible with what we are pursuing and ensuring its funding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u95	Minister, I guess it wasn't understood. But, I imagine, we will have the opportunity, at the Minister's meeting, to present all our arguments on the need for a new piece to be drawn up there at the Midigli-Branch. Indeed, I believe it will be done, what the Minister said in public in the next few days. I would, however, like, if the Minister were to tell us what is happening and what is going on with the progress of the Good Water and Chacona road, because there is also a considerable delay in the preparation of the studies. To tell us how we can assure citizens that the resources will be secure, in fact, in the next PCA, as the Minister said, since it is not the handcuff, one would say. As he has said so, I am tempted, in order to give the clear answer, to convey what I have heard today, as I myself have heard from my colleagues - they are not simply excruciating - that you are serving, not big-workers, but micro-enterprises. Indeed, can a government thus bow things to the ground and this can be an argument for the public word, that it gives more? Of course, could competition - for those who have adopted it - bring the best results as the previous one I told you? That's what anyone would expect to hear. Finally, please, Mr Minister, please tell me, if you have been given a service, what can be the date for the auctioning of this work, and if what you have told us here today in this House was known in SYRIZA before you even assume the responsibility for governance, because many SYRIZA colleagues, but I too, too, have come to this Chamber many times through parliamentary control to force the previous government to proceed with this necessary task, as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u97	I would like to raise two points, Mr President. The answer is that as soon as it joins the EWRS the notice will be made. I remind you that engraving is not a small project. It's about 100 million euros. Indeed, because new environmental conditions and new expropriations are needed, this will delay the project much. I would like to reply to you about the Good Water - Chacona road section that the award of a cost-benefit study is being promoted directly to document the required traffic capacity of the new development and the procedures for ensuring the funding for updating and completing the relevant studies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We will be adjourned for a while in accordance with Rule 59(3) of our Rules of Procedure and will be rejoined at 20.30" with a special agenda for the plenary session of the Parliament, "Announcements by the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, pursuant to Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the Greek Parliament of the issues relating to the current negotiation". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u99	Repeated adjournment. Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins, unless you have more to say, so let's wait. I see that the most ruthless are SYRIZA's colleagues. That's good!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFIC PROVISIONS ON BULLETIN Communications by the Prime Minister, Mr Alexis Tsipras, pursuant to Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the information of the Greek Parliament on the issues relating to the current negotiation. Under Rule 142a of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Government may, in addition to the pre-dated debate, request at any time to make statements or statements before it on any serious public matter. The request for an announcement or a statement with their subject-matter shall be made to the President or the President of the Parliament and shall be communicated to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the Opposition Parliaments at least twenty-four hours ago. That's what happened. The relevant request by the Prime Minister yesterday was sent to all the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups more than twenty-four hours ago, as laid down in Rule 142a. The government's announcement or declaration shall be made in person by the Prime Minister at any legislative or parliamentary sitting before the beginning of the discussion on the agenda and shall not exceed 10 minutes of the time. I would point out that this debate was actually put before today's agenda, which concerned the three questions of parliamentary scrutiny, which were also raised after the questions that had been postponed since last week. However, during the previous part-session, it was agreed that the questions identified for the follow-up should be preceded by the Parliament's agreement. We shall thus conclude the debate with the special agenda. The Presidents of the Representation Parliamentary Groups may, in person, develop their views on the content of the announcement or declaration made by the Government for a maximum of five minutes per hour for each. In the event of an absence or illness of the President of the Parliamentary Group in the debate, he shall replace him with a representative of the nominated person. The President-in-Office's reply to the views of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups may not exceed five minutes, the denial of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the Opposition Parliaments may not exceed three minutes and of the Prime Minister, who speaks last, five minutes. In accordance with this procedure, we shall proceed. I will give all the speakers a relative tolerance during the protagonists, but we shall apply the Rules of Procedure strictly in secondary terms. The Prime Minister is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first day of the Government of Social Rescue, we have stated in all directions and in the most emphatic way that we are changing a page in the place. The country stops being a monumental colony and a protagonist in this effort will be the Greek people themselves, the Greek people who decided on 25 January. Our obligation is, every day that passes, that citizens know what is happening, that everything that is unfolding in the difficult and painful negotiation with our partners and lenders. There's no secret diplomacy, no personal strategies. There is a collective negotiation strategy open, clear, transparent to the Greek people. That is why we have not hesitated our plan, our position is immediately known. This simple decision, this strategy of ours, has enabled us to make the citizens of the country a community. This option is at the same time an option for returning democracy to the place. Today, the overwhelming majority of citizens support the new government's negotiating strategy and every day they ask us for one thing: do not step back. This popular mandate, a people's mandate to multiply in the days following the popular verdict of 25 January, a people's mandate to be renewed every day that passes, the mandate to proceed with a sincere and cruel negotiation, the mandate to implement our programme, we are determined to serve it to the end, just as we do two months now. And this strategy bears fruit, despite the fact that the environment was drugged, despite the fact that we received a country, not on the edge of the cliff, but deep down into the cliff. Because it is time to tell truths, truths that are no longer hidden, no matter how much one wants to look up the picture. The previous government was satisfied with the primary surplus of 2014. He was talking about a surplus of 1.8% in 2014, i.e. about 3.3 billion euros. The reality is that the surplus recorded at the close of the financial year was only 0.3%, i.e. EUR 592 billion, EUR 2.7 billion less than it was advertising in the run-up to the election campaign. And as if that were not enough, the public funds we have just seen did not have that poor surplus in one, since the cash deficit we received was about EUR 2.5 billion. This is a cash deficit, which, of course, created both the desperate attempt by the government to destabilise the economy by a risk-free, but also its inability, since even this hundred-dollar law was so incomplete that it brought to the funds only 70 million euros. He brought EUR 70 million in five months, when we now have within a week of the pre-setting of the law that we voted on, we already have EUR 100 million. Just in a week! This was, therefore, the real picture that we saw in the funds and at the same time a loan contract that expired within narrow time margins, with the risk that banks would be uncovered by the European Central Bank's Extraordinary Responsibility Mechanism and at the same time an unprecedented financial suffocation situation, since our country is perhaps the only country in the world that since the summer of 2014, when the flow of funding has been interrupted by the lenders, does not refinance its debts, but it repays them from its budget. Despite this suffocating situation - which was not by chance, some people had made sure that political change occurs in the country - our negotiating strategy led to the agreement of 20 February in Eurogroup, a milestone agreement with which the loan contract was extended, but at the same time gained a reduction in the targets for primary surpluses for 2015, as well as the replacement of the famous fifth evaluation of the previous programme with the list of measures proposed and responsible for them by the new Greek Government. Instead, for Hardouvel's mail, instead of pension cuts, VAT increases and mass redundancies, the Greek Government will implement, with the consent of the partners, a programme of its own responsibility, the correction of the economy and the redistribution of burdens and incomes in order to stop the burdens of the crisis from being borne by ordinary mortgages, employees, pensioners, unemployed, in order to stop the constant deregulation of the labour market, in order to start a process of reversing the destructive policies that have destroyed the Greek society and the economy. In its decision of 20 February, however, the need to open up the debate on the necessary restructuring of the Greek debt is acknowledged at last, because without such intervention - in lies - it is impossible to repay it without even more and more social disasters. This debate will be opened on time in order to reach June in a new development contract with the partners, in order to reduce the objectives for the extra-real surpluses of the next three years, surpluses that are the other name of cruel austerity. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the only strategy that can put an end to austerity, maintaining the country in the European framework, which, in other words, can put an end to the Memorandum Policy. The other way is unconditional conspiracy to the demands of the most extreme neoliberal centres, the ruthless retreat in front of those who may have a personal or social interest to continue the same policy that destroyed the place. And I would like today to address directly and directly the question to all parties in the Opposition: Will you support this national negotiating strategy to put an end to austerity... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] ... or will you continue to behave as a lipstick of the most extreme political and economic centers in Greece and Europe, as a mouthpiece of the inspirations of the Memorandum? That is the great political risk, that is the question, that is the great political dilemma that has to be answered today without half the point. But we must at the same time decide on opposition. To decide another thing: if we've already codified and signed memorandums, as you tell us Monday, Wednesday, Friday or we're driving the country on the rocks, as you tell us Tuesday, Saturday, Saturday. Because both of them can't be. It's either one or the other. Decide. These contradictions, however, do not surprise us in your opposition speech. It is indicative of your strategy of confusion, of the strategy of confusing a political staff, who have been ruling through e-mails for five years, carrying out orders at the same time as "implementing" the Greek people and, unfortunately, turning our country into a debt colony. Ladies and gentlemen, the answer to these contradictions, the contradictions of the opposition speech of today's opposition, will not await it from the opposition itself, because life itself is giving it the answer. We are giving it our response every day to the tough negotiations outside, but also within the country, with the policy we are implementing. So let Mr. Samaras, Mr. Theodorakis, tell us today: is the humanitarian crisis law, which gives thousands of our fellow people who have lost everything in the last five years of the crisis, a memorial? Is the law on the hundred instalments, which within less than a week has brought 100 million euros to the public funds and has enabled thousands of citizens and businesses to see light in the tunnel of debts accumulated by your policies? Is the bill on ERT's reopening a memorandum? Is the non-implementation of the zero deficit clause for the insurance funds, which saves us from the pension cuts that you have decided on, a memorandum? Or is it a memorial to refuse to increase VAT? The solution we gave to the problem of sugar industry the day before yesterday, which gave hope and prospects of jobs to hundreds of workers, thousands along with the shipyards, is all this an extension of the memorandum? Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are seeking an honest compromise with our partners. But unconditionally conspiracy, don't wait for us. Everyone in Greece and Europe is well aware of that, and that is why we are being ruthless in war. That is why we are supported by a large majority of Greek society, which understands exactly what is at stake these hours. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that, in order to realise economic interests and political centres, particularly within the country, which cannot admit that the memorandum will not come back again and, above all, cannot admit that they will not have immunity from this point of view: the memorandum has failed and has gone through history. We now have the opportunity and responsibility to move on to radical reforms, reforms that Greek society and the economy need, reforms that will serve the interests of the social majority, which will redistribute burdens and incomes in favour of the lower layers, reforms to create a state that is effective and socially rewarding. The new government is the only one that can implement this ambitious reform plan, mainly for one reason: because it has no commitments, because it draws its power from the people, because, in the end, you know, we have to say truths before Parliament and the citizens that are watching us. What reform has taken place in our country over the past five years? What reform have you been doing in the last five years in the country? Unless you call reforms the redundancies of civil servants, the abolition of collective labour contracts, wage cuts and pensions, the sale of public property, the closure of hospitals and schools, the collapse of university institutions in the name of fiscal adjustment. None of these are reforms that the place needs, because of course you only knew how to slap your hand on the table and act like the hard ones. But why didn't you do the same with the broadcasting licenses, which were a Memorandum of Obligation, Mr Samara? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You have forgotten this Memorandum of Understanding, and you and the Troika have forgotten it. Why didn't you really proceed to substantial checks on tax evasion? Of the two thousand sixty-two names on the Lagard list, they've only been checked twenty-five. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u102	You're oppositioning the Opposition!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u103	Today we are learning from foreign press reports, foreign newspapers, that civil servants have resigned because they were under pressure not to control those on the Lagard list, because they were your close colleagues, Mr. Samaras. So here's the post. [[At this point, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the abovementioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So how long did you think that disgrace could go on? Do you know how many requests, ladies and gentlemen, have they been filed with Swiss banks to provide information on suspected tax evasion? Ten just requests. Ten just demands throughout the previous government's term of office. I never expected even in the German Chancellor to ask me the question: "We have asked your governments for so many years to go to Switzerland to make a new agreement. All the countries of Europe have gone to Switzerland and have concluded agreements, only Greece has not gone. Why? Why?’ But these are the works and days of a government that plundered the low layers, the middle, the low-wages, the pensioners, but left all those who have not paid their share in the crisis in recent years and made their money abroad undisturbed, like what the previous Minister of Finance, your Minister of Finance, Mr Samaras, has done. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the truth, and that is the truth the Greek people must know. The new Greek Government negotiates, fights, bleeds, to stop the majority of the Greek people from bleeding. The new Greek Government has already submitted to the partners, the institutions, its own list of short-term reforms, real reforms that will directly change the face of the Greek state and the Greek economy, will give impetus to growth and make Greece a truly modern country. For example, I will mention the reforms to combat the smuggling of fuel, tobacco and alcohol, which will bring revenue to the public funds and protect competition, the organised effort to harmonise Greek legislation with European law, so that the country stops paying fines due to violations and delays, the intensification of controls on bank transfers and offshore companies, the introduction of measures to combat black and undeclared work, the modernisation of electronic direct VAT returns, the special tax on television advertising and many more. With these measures we will have the opportunity to strengthen the public fund and breathe to the Greek society, so that the occupants can finally pay and stop plundering the middle class and the wage earners. That's our plan. The agreement of 20 February is now a European political acquis and this agreement is about to be implemented. Today I call on the opposition to say clear words, to support this national effort, to support the crucial negotiation, to support the legislative work of the government, which gives thousands of households a breath of weight from the low layers, so that the country can regain authority and dignity. The current Government of Social Rescue, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude, Madam President - did not hesitate with all its representatives, wherever they have been found in recent times, to speak the language of truth, claim forbidden words - dignity, national sovereignty, national development plan - but also other difficult words - such as 'SIEMENS', durable loan, war redress - even within Berlin. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Did I really do, Mr Samaras, say that I was right to say this in Berlin, or should I also say 'no sinners' to Mrs Merkel? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We, ladies and gentlemen, know this language to speak, the language of truth, and this policy we know to serve and we will continue to serve. We've chosen a side for too long. What we are asking today is for each party to do in this House and in society. We call on the citizens, the people, the social classes - victims of the memorandum - to stand next to us in this difficult and hard battle, to support our national effort, our effort to raise our country and people from the mud of the memoranda, an effort that does not only correspond to one party, but only one party. This is a national effort - understand it - and that is why we have with us the vast majority of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th Xanthi Gymnasio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Samara, do you want the floor? It's your turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u105	No, he doesn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u106	I'm calling to Stepma the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Antonis Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u107	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It was outside the memorandum, Mr Tsipras, when last year we shared 450 million for the humanitarian crisis, twice as much as you still did. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It was outside the memorandum that the excise duty on heating oil was reduced. It was outside the memorial to reduce VAT on the focus. The seventy-two and a hundred doses that, when they came to Parliament, were outside the Memorandum, you did not support and voted against them. We fight every day to get out of the Memorandum. That's what we wanted. That's our place. We're at the end. You know the interruption that took place. You've put the memos deep into it, and without money. And you come to tell us that democracy has returned to the country. If you really want the citizens to know what is going on every day, you should have brought the memorandum to the House, Mr Tsipras. Why, otherwise, what return to democracy are you talking about? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You wanted to tell us a number of points without substance. You didn't tell us the matter. You didn't say the deal you were going to make. You spoke about the zero deficit clause. Our priority is to have to pay pensions, not to feed and not to have to pay at the end of the month. But you have also reached a point where you should not be insulting people. And it's a disgrace to you. You talked about my own partner. Yeah. Because I'm in direct, men's school, I'll tell you straight away. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Do you like the douchebag? Do you like to mean it and not say it? Do you like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u108	That was anti-feminist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u109	Don't underestimate women, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u110	It was sexist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u111	If you consider it sexist, I take it back. However, because - in any case - I like the straight line, I wish Greece had ten Papastavrous. He's a man to whom we owe too much. He participated decisively in the country's negotiations. For what you said, detailed answers have been given, and it is a shame with such Malima tales to throw mud into the House. But I know why you're doing it. Because you need to build a "Katrugalo" in New Democracy. Hey, you won't find, Mr. Tsipras, in New Democracy 'Catrugalo'! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do not fight for the 'SIEMENS' issue that we brought first. You throw the ball on the platform. Priority is now to get the country out of suffocation. As far as German compensation and corrections are concerned, I would remind you that we have dared, for the first time in history, to formally put in place and find the assessment of the amount that our country may require, with two reports given to the General Accounting Office of the State. Immediately, without drum-banging, responsiblely, on an issue that remains open and which you, the new 'Merkelist', have simply turned it into a moral obligation in Berlin, Mr Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, in any case: have you invited us here for what reason? Let us know what exactly? Where's the deal? Do you want to blame others? The bad strangers? To the previous government? Don't you have any responsibility? You say you want to let us know. Did you tell us about the course of the negotiations? What kind of briefing is that? Neither for the agreement of 20 February nor for the contents of the proposals you have sent to the Troika, you have not informed us. Are you asking for a consensus on what? What we don't know about? And who are you afraid of and not informing the House? Our MPs or yours? In your speech we understood why you invited us. You're hitting the Opposition so your people can hear you. We're hitting us that we don't exercise rule to warn your own people that they won't let you rule. Because that's the truth: that you haven't been ruling for two months. And just because you don't rule, the country is sinking. And you don't rule, because your people won't let you. And because you can't tell them, you're hitting us. But why did you invite us here today? In order to make the Opposition co-responsibility for a possible break in which you drive the country, which we have warned you to be disastrous, or to make your own co-responsibles in the fucker, to which you are driving and which they neither want to hear of. But an extraordinary debate in the House in the middle of negotiations reveals either a dead end or a panic or - the most likely - a dead end and panic. And you always ask us the question, whether we are with you or with the strangers. The answer is simple, Mr Tsipras, to understand and always remember it: We are with Greece and everything that benefits Greece we are in favour and anything that threatens Greece we are across. And I suggest something to you: let us leave what we are discussing in the past. Who's right slowly seems. In the past government, no one was concerned about whether wages and pensions would be paid at the end of the month. Today, the best thing they wish for is to find them for next month. God has! But the funds of the state do not. That's why you're desperately asking for liquidity from the outside. In the past, there have been surpluses. The things that you're now on your way to. However, you have eliminated these surpluses. You called people not to pay their taxes. And the first two months of this year - because that is where you are confusing them, and the Ministry of Finance has officially announced that - they are accounted for last year. From the time you caused the elections, you have led to a reduction in the state's revenue. And so was December and the election January and February. And so it was reduced last year's surplus that everyone, by the end of November, said that either we would catch or go beyond the target. You have caused the insecurity that you have created, and this fleeing and post-election has continued. If you'd inspire confidence, there wouldn't be any deposit flight today. Because we have read right and left - and you have only seen two, three - for concrete measures, which you are supposed to be discussing now, I ask you this: do your components agree on what we have read about the privatization of PPA and airports? Can I tell you something else? Proposals such as evidence lottery, triangular transactions, strengthening the autonomy of the Public Income Secretariat, the Code of Civil Procedure, the application of organic budgetary law, remind you of anything, Mr Tsipras? Let me remind you that this is all in Hardouvel's e-mail, which you are now going to pass. The suspension of reforms that have already taken place, which you have already signed, has the troika approved it? I'm asking! And what are you going to do with your other commitments, with VAT, with the abolition of tax exemptions, with the new public salary, with the assessment, with the continuation of pension reform? A program, of course, Thessaloniki no one sees anywhere. That's another conversation. You're talking about the essential measures you're not going to take, but you've already taken material measures. You have taken it with the internal payment stop in the country and you are driving the Greek economy completely into the recession. You do not grant the hospitals, you do not pay the EEA, you do not pay VAT refunds, you do not give - two months now - no heating allowance, no child benefits. We found nine billion overdue, and in two and a half years, we took them to three. We weren't feeding, but we were paying the world, Mr. Tsipras. You feed everything and you don't pay the world. Elevate, on the contrary, every day overdue. In December, all the agencies forecast for this year's two and a half recovery, now forecast under one. This alone will create a huge new deficit of two billion. So I say this to you and repeat it to you: While you continue the theatre of a virtual negotiation, the account will be increased and the Greek people will be asked to pay him the bill. Let me give you just one example: FITCH, which recently degraded Greece, continued to reduce estimates for 2015. He said 2.5% in December, 1.5% in January, and now he says 0.5%, with a risk of falling further. It doesn't make any sense to talk about it and talk about it again. The numbers exist and are constantly getting worse. Let's see from now on what happens, with two words. We, Mr Tsipras, will support you, although we will not support anything. We won't support things we didn't. We pulled the country out of the surpluses, the recovery, so that we can give relief from now on. If you return to the country in recession and deficits, we cannot support a new circle of sacrifices that you do not need and which you have caused. Today we have the possibility of agreeing with you in a package of measures that would free liquidity, but not for fifteen days or for a month, because this'salamation' you are trying to kill the economy and raise the account. We can also find a package of measures that will free the liquidity, eliminate this uncertainty that has kneeled the country. So let go of the words and move quickly. Solve the problem where it exists. And the problem exists here, Mr. Tsipras, inside you. At last, rule! You are asking for the help of the parties. First, ask your group for it. Others say about the privatisation of PPA by Drasakis in China and others by Dr. Dritsas in Athens. But you say break, but Mr. Chakalotos. That's your problem. But also the problem of the country. That a large part of your party leads you and wants to lead the country openly to the break with the partners. Your executive was forced to say a few days ago 'if the people wanted a break with Europe, they would vote for a JRC'. Because these are contradictory to each other, you are wasting time, the deadlocks are densing, and the country can no longer withstand this suffering. I'll say two - three truths. You never made a negotiation. Negotiation does not exist, if you do not enter data, in analytical numbers. Today, you didn't give such evidence. Until a few days ago, you did not provide data on the technical staircases. Then you made an announcement that you'd be happy to give the information you'd ask for. It was just after your Berlin trip. Finally, this evening, you are once again making general proposals. What happened to that full and costly program you advertised before the elections? Is he lost in translation? For weeks you were negotiating whether you would accept a time extension of the memorandum, you finally accepted it. Were you negotiating how you would call it the Memorandum: 'Convention', 'arrangement'? Were you now negotiating how you would say the troika: 'institutions', 'Brussels Group', 'Atheens Group'? There were many weeks of negotiations on these issues. That was, as a matter of fact, the proud negotiation you made. And you were so proud of its result that you did not dare bring this negotiation here for a vote in Parliament. On the contrary, we had gone through the House last two months. We went through everything, not because you asked for it, but because we wanted full legality. Then you have interpreted what you signed and finally proved to be a memorandum that you also signed, since the loan contract explicitly refers to the memorandum and the English law - to hear it by some - you also signed Luxembourg arbitration and the institutions, with the troika, are negotiating and evaluating, and the Troika will first be approved by the Troika, then the Eurogroup will authorize you to disburse part of the last instalment. After all, that is what Mr Schultz said to you - not Mr Shoeble - the socialist President of the European Parliament, who, when eighteen countries say that you signed this and you say something else, told you that it was probably right to be eighteen. Now, you're saying that you're being suffocated by the liquidity suffocation they have imposed on you, that is, they don't even give you part of the last dose. But until a moment ago, Mr. Tsipras, you told us that your government did not need them. Do you remember when the Minister told you that 'we don't need the 7.2 billion' and then he said 'we'll only need 1.9 of the SMP'? Now the country's kneel, it's the 'bad' partners who drown us, that is, they don't give us what you yourself said you don't need. I'd say you're trying to land in reality, get the lies back, but, unfortunately, this isn't happening either. You still talked about the e-mail Hardouvelis. First of all, I repeat, you have accepted almost everything from that e-mail: and the need to close the latter assessment and the changes in VAT. Yes, you have accepted much more in VAT than e-mail Hardouvelis. Of course you also accepted the obligation not to take unilateral action and to find financially equivalent. The only difference is that the e-mail Hardouverlis, Mr. Tsipras, concerned about how we will finish the last evaluation and how we will finally get out of the memorandum, while the e-mail Varoufakis is about how we will finish the last evaluation so that we can get back in, unfortunately, in a next memorandum. What you're going to call it is something that you're mock people and don't care about. You're insisting on lying. [[On this point the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the New Democracy is ringing again and again.]] Why don't you tell us what's going to happen with the budget gap this year? We determined it under 2.6 billion and downloaded it under 1.5. We weren't in a hurry to shut it down every year and catch the targets. You pushed the country into elections, called on people not to pay taxes and the revenues left behind. I ask how much the biggest budgetary gap you now have to deal with is this. How much you don't know, nobody knows, but we'll find it in front of us. For what the budget does not cover, we will be borrowed by the outsides, Mr Tsipras, and not by the markets. On the markets we can't go out anymore. The European institutions and the IMF will have to lend us once again and when they lend us, they will make conditions. That's what you don't understand. One more thing: When I was abroad, I always created friends for Greece. You like to constantly create enemies and many times artificial enemies. But they finally become true enemies. I would refer here to the'substantial sin' you said about Berlin, so that you do not repeat it all the time. Foreigners asked me about the statements made by German politicians, that they did not care if Greece would come out of the euro and then I answered "no sinless" for these foreign German parties. So let go of that story. National dignity, if you want it, is not constantly asking for credit. My antimonetary policy was to get the country out of the Memorandum an hour ago. We'd already be out of a memorial. You imagine they'll give you money without getting you terms, and you finally led yourself to signing terms without getting the money. You went to get money without a Memorandum and finally signed a continuation of the memorandum, without getting anything. That's what you did on February 20th. That's right. You signed, among other things, that you will respect the country's obligations, and now you are threatening that, if they do not give you money before the assessment, you will not pay the next instalment of the IMF. That means a credit event, which will strike, will poison the entire debt. Don't make a mistake. Do you know how much a credit event costs? Do you realize that this is the first step towards the final decoupling of the country from the euro? If you have your mind to cause that, we're 100% against it. The consequences will be devastating. To tell you raw: you are isolating the country, Mr. Tsipras. You're wasting time, the bill's up, the Greek people are paying him. The difference in the position you were in until two months ago and the position you are in today is simple: then you could constantly lie, today you can no longer. Then your lies were rendered, today your lies are no longer beneficial, costing. They cost the real economy expensive, and you will soon pay them. But there's a risk that the place will pay for it too. That's why you need to leave the fairy tales and land in the truth. And don't make any other comparisons to our own governance. Let me just say to you: you don't get to make such comparisons. When we were government, there was no concern about whether wages and pensions would be paid at the end of the month. When we were government, there was no concern about whether the country would pay its debts or whether there would be a credit event. We found the spreads up and downloaded them. You found the spreads low and they've been launched. We found Greece's credit rating in the trash and we had a spectacular improvement in it. You found Greece's rating much better and you worsen it. We found the economy in recession and brought it to growth. You found her in development, and you're driving her back into recession. Indeed, we never did, and I advise you to cut it down, because it seriously harms the health of the country. We did a real deal, without fanatics, and that is why the country's position was constantly improving. I've told you that, to end the uncertainty, to rejoin the economy and move again, I'm willing to help. If you're worried your party doesn't watch, you know that a serious deal is for us to support it and it can pass, even if your party has many sabotage it. We are not going to do what you have done as opposition and have proved it. We have already voted on your first two drafts, which are, moreover, a recast of our own old measures, which have already entered the budget and which is why they cost little. The bill to support the weak social strata, and that for the hundreds of doses, with minimal discrepancies, is our measures, those which we voted on at the time you were voting against. [[On this point the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the New Democracy is ringing again and again.]] Now you admit that in the past few years there has been great progress and not to say it at that time. You signed it in the Eurogroup that progress was made in the area of co-operation. You admitted it publicly when you met with Mrs. Merkel. You said attributes that much has been done by the previous government. I would remind you that none of these rightly voted. We voted for your first two bills. But I say to you, Mr Tsipras, that you do not consider us to be given. Things are much worse today than when you took over two months ago, but the situation is still being saved. If you lose more time, the account goes up, and soon the situation won't be saved. But we are not going to let you lure the country into destruction, and we are not going to follow you. We'll support the country not going to the rocks. But today, you're government. You have a responsibility and we ask you to agree immediately now. The lies are over. If you decide to proceed responsibly, we will support you. Do you take responsibility? Do you know what responsibility will be? You have responsibility for the country. You, trapped in your ideas, believe that you will change the whole of Europe, but you are sacrificing it in the interests of the country. The responsibility is to keep Greece up, to take it out of uncertainty, which, after all, you create yourself. Do not pretend, Mr. Tsipras, the victim of pressure. You're the victim, not the victim, Mr. Tsipras. Victim, not victim! You sacrifice both the truth and the responsibility. A real victim is the people who'll pay the bill. You say that we are supposedly talking about left-wing parentheses. The country, look, don't throw it on the rocks. Because then you will have written your own 'black' chapter and not parentheses. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the New Democracy is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. What you did in the country doesn't have to tell you. Your irresponsibility shows it every day. The city center was seized again by hordes of illegal immigrants, who have no place to live. That's a big part of it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The hoodmen are burning again everything they find unobstructed. They bruise everything they don't burn. The University reconquered. This is not the image the Greeks want. Meanwhile, every day in the morning no one knows if Greece will go from an accident. You were ordered to change the memorandum, but without causing an accident. You swore that there was no danger of the country staying in the euro when many people told you otherwise. The people did not vote for you to cause an accident. The world didn't vote for you to take him out of the euro. The world did not vote for you to hand over the cities to the illegal immigrants and the hoodmen. He didn't vote for you to isolate the place. He didn't vote for you on communal tricks. He voted for something different, while you are putting the country back into greater crisis in every respect. Your problem - I say again - is not us, it's here. I and New Democracy can help solve the problem. Your problem must be solved by yourself. I'll even help 1.9 billion get it. Why, indeed, are they keeping them. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Does it bother you that I've already done it and I'm advertising it right and left? Does it bother you? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It's bothering you! Mr Tsipras, you see your parliamentary group. They don't even want to help where we can. If they don't want to, Mr. Tsipras, we will. Because we have Greece, not the party. And that's the difference. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But if you cause a credit event, we'll be in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Samara, how much time do you still think you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u113	I told you to finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u114	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u115	I told you I was finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u116	Six minutes ago, you said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u117	If you put your hands on the deposits, if you drive the country into a collapse or with one leg outside the euro and with the other on new taxes, we will be against you. Do what you have quickly. You don't have a long time, Mr. Tsipras. You don't have many days. I would not have convened here in this House at the time of negotiations, not to say anything of which I am negotiating. What happened today is unprecedented. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Whatever you have, do it quickly! We received chaos and in two and a half years we delivered a country. You have received a country and brought it to chaos! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] If you want the last minute to save the country together, we'll put back on it. If you continue irresponsibility, incoherence, then, Mr. Tsipras, don't look for accomplices. There will be no consortia here for these steps you are taking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u118	The Prime Minister had ten minutes and spoke twenty-two. The Chief of Officer County had five minutes and spoke twenty-six minutes and forty-seven seconds. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I would like to say that, in this Chamber, wordings of racist and sexist will not be heard again. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In particular, when the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights is visiting our country today, the representative of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, and you were obliged to be more eminent in such formalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u119	Lessons from you, Madam President. Lessons from you I don't accept!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u120	Stop commenting on us at last, like you're a teacher. You're a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u121	It is a question of parliamentary ethics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u122	You're sick!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Michalokou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u124	Madam President, just a minute. I and the New Democracy censorship in the House do not accept... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u125	Open the microphone to Mr. Samaras, who feels censored after twenty-seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u126	I will not accept censorship, Madam President, and I do not accept it. Since 1977, I have been in these chairs. I've never seen that behavior from all the presidents that have passed. So far, I haven't spoken, but be careful. Crisis at the expense of this party, which has given everything to democracy, which has given everything to the spirit of this Parliament, we do not accept! It's over. We're not accepting it! And what I mean, I mean it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u127	The President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group of the Golden Dawn, Nikos Michaloliakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the New Democracy spoke of'minorities of illegal immigrants' who have occupied the cities. What more have we said that his government has described us as a 'criminal organisation'? [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] He's still talking about censorship. I would like to inform the House that excerpts from the speeches of Members of the Golden Dawn have entered the case-file, which has been made with the political interventions at that time, revealed in the famous Baltaku video, which has never been discussed in this Chamber. He said Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister, that the country stops being a Memorandum colony. May I? We're waiting. He asked if it's a memorial law for the hundred doses. It really isn't. I could say that it is a unilateral action, because there have been statements that, if we move on to this law, it will be a unilateral action. And it turned out that, by moving on to unilateral actions, the end of the world is no longer coming. He asked whether the humanitarian crisis and the law adopted to deal with it is a memorandum. It's not a memorial. However, it is a memorial to extend the loan contract. A memorandum which - as promised - will be opened and, together with the restructuring of the debt will be put in June. We're waiting. As long as there is a loan contract with the assignment of national sovereignty, with English law, then, yes, we have a memorandum. We hope to end this as well. On 25 January 2015, the Greek people voted. And it voted against the memorandum and I refer not only to the two parties of the Government, but to at least two other parties, which are in Parliament, including the Golden Dawn. We voted against the memorandum with more than 50% of the Greek people. And if, as Mr Samaras said, the country is being driven to the rocks, the people have chosen it with their full responsibility. And if he hadn't understood it yet, the New Democracy's election propaganda had taken care of at the foothills of danger - that banks will close, that banks will stop giving salaries, that they will close the supermarkets, that people will be killed on the streets - to say it. So the people in full knowledge took the responsibility of throwing the country on the rocks, as they claim it will happen. Mr Samaras also said, in addressing the Prime Minister, that he should have already brought the extension of the memorandum. Was it not five years for the destruction of our national economy, were there not five years for misery and tolerance with the policy of the famous memorandum? When the Kapodistrias took over the rule of the country, he asked to tell him how much money the public fund has. And they told him he had only a five-foot, and that's a balcony. It turns out also from the cash problems encountered in relation to doses, the success of the success story, the famous primary surplus, the development that was coming, was nothing other than a burnt land. Mr. Samaras also talked about leaving the deposit. And I really do wonder how those who cultivate the risk, it is possible to refer to a fact that is essentially due to them - and not now, but from the 2012 elections, which said that if they lose the government, the drachma will come. He even said that where he went abroad, he made friends. Here the people say the proverb 'when you have such friends, what do you want them with the enemies?' Because neither the many civil servants nor the pretexts of the various Brussels bureaucrats have led us into bankruptcy. In bankruptcy, we were led by the money that was going to the European countries - it was returning rather - as with the wonderful armaments programs, which we already know from many procedural documents that there were hatreds, in order to buy at prices that Greece was buying either war aircraft, either rocket or armoured. Of course, they didn't take them because they were selling at the appropriate price. We have paid three times the price for a type of armoured man than Turkey. It is a fact that the country is in a crisis. It is also a fact - and the Prime Minister said so - that, if there is no debt restructuring, there is no solution to the national deadlock. The amount is huge for the data of the Greek economy and with the given capitalist international financial system it is certain that Greece will be enslaved to the loan sharks, whom they call lenders, forever. Only if the debt is reduced then will there be a future. I was present in the previous House, when the extrajudicial settlement with SIEMENS was passed, which we heard at the time - and we voted against it - was agreed to give EUR 2 billion to the Greek state of EUR 200 million, of which I remember - and here is the real German black humor - a large sum would be allocated for transparency seminars. The archimizadors, that is, would have had money to train us not to pay us. We will, of course, see the measures proposed by the government. Some of these have already been released in the press and in the official newspaper of SYRIZA, in the newspaper "AGEY". I read some of them. I believe that we should pay attention to the issue of the return of funds from abroad by taxing 15% without 'from now on'. It will be dirty money laundering and that is not appropriate to a rule of law. I have heard and read about controls on foreign lists and transfers, and here I have the following question: With the Lagard list, which is one of many lists, we had two thousand twenty-six names, if I'm not mistaken, and they were checked only thirty. At this rate, only on the Lagard list those who have earned funds abroad will be controlled in two hundred years. Here the state must assume its responsibilities, and there must be a thorough review. To conclude, I would like to say that this government is in power, the Greek people voted to denounce the memorandum in order to terminate the loan contract. I hope she will keep her promise and do it, because only then will she cease the slavery of the interest and return national sovereignty to Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u129	Thank you. One clarification: the draft compromise with ‘SIEMENS’ was never ratified by the Greek Parliament. A relevant provision which had been introduced, on request of a roll-call vote, was withdrawn from the then government and from the former Deputy Minister, Mr Stakoura. Mr Theodorakis, President of the Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u130	Mr President of the Government, I am noble and will begin with the questions you have asked me. You asked me whether Potami would vote and support your efforts to deal with the humanitarian crisis. Firstly, I should like to say to you - because you were not here - that we voted on the humanitarian crisis provisions, although we thought they were crumbs, compared to what we had to give. I remind you that the bill speaks to you for 200 million. If we calculate that we have a million people below the poverty line - which is more, but if we assume that it is a million - we are talking about EUR 200 a year for each of them. I would also remind you that the Potami proposed another reform, much more radical, the minimum guaranteed income, which exists throughout Europe, and there is pilots in Greece - unfortunately only pilots - and, if there was a minimum guaranteed income, the poor in this country could not feel appalled. You asked us about the hundred doses. Of course we voted for them. But a hundred doses are reform? It's a straightforward accounting, it's the implementation of a loose end, you're trying to settle a loose end. It's not a 100-dose reform. We voted on them. You asked us about ERT, if we agree. So we said - and since last time I think the Stepma - that we agree on a new public television, because the previous government's experiment failed, it has failed miserably. So let's go make a new public TV. But let me tell you something: why are you now bringing the law of ERT, without bringing the rules on radio frequencies together? Isn't that important? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] So we call on you, and we tell you that in this law you have prepared for ERT, you have had a hurry to prepare a law on ERT, really great rush, respectively, you should show the same zeal for a regulation on radio frequencies. It's the same thing, we want it and bring it along with ERT to talk about it. Unless we are mainly interested in making some promises to some journalists and we do not care about regulating the broadcasting landscape. We are interested in regulating the broadcasting landscape, not having the rulers uncontrollable in broadcasting, and of course a strong public television, which is currently not there. After answering your questions, you will allow me to ask a few questions. Very recently, at the side of Mrs Merkel, you said 'we are going together', we are going with Germany, together with the allied Germany, to obviously change our relations with Europe. Very recently - and you would hear him, he is not here today, I think he is in Moscow - said Mr Lafazanis that the conflict must take place with German Europe. Is there not a long distance between these two policies? Let's go with Merkel, go with the Germans or go against it? Let me tell you something and you know it: what Mr Lafazanis said does not, of course, insult the Germans. What Lafazanis said insults the French - and they would have told you - offends the Italians. When you talk about German Europe, this offends the country's allies in this battle for Europe's change, and you should tell us whether one or the other is true. I insist on some questions: Privatizations or concessions or investment, say as you wish. We're giving the port to the Chinese, yes or no? There's an agony from the Chinese embassy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, may I interrupt you? You're talking about something that wasn't said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u132	No, Mr. President. You'll talk later, Mr. Vice President. You have the option after you answer. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u133	You're talking about something that wasn't said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u134	What wasn't said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Theodorakis, do you accept the interruption?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u136	I, because I am new, say to you: let us break the procedure and answer the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u137	No, Mr. Theodorakis. The procedure provides for the adjournment of the adjourned person to be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u138	So I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Drasakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u140	I would like to say on behalf of the government that I had a detailed meeting with the Chinese leadership and I am willing to inform the House about it at the first opportunity. There, in our debate, we talked not about privatisation, but about a model that our Government proposes, with public participation, a synergy system. That's what I wanted to say, so you don't refer to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u141	It's like you're telling me... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Is Drasakis-Dritsa's internal party match over 0-1? Can I tell you something? You need to give a more specific answer to the case of the privatisation of the port. The Chinese are demanding it. You know that. They demand it not as a great power, but as people who have invested in Greece. We have told you that our position is clear on all matters - take note of it. We are not with the policeman and the police officer, Mr. President and Mr. Vice-President of the government. We are clear, and I think that after two months, you should start and you should be a little clear about things and the dilemmas. There's not one and the other. Can I tell you something? It is right that this paper on our proposals - why have you not given a particular piece of paper, we do not know what your negotiating group is talking about - but, if that is correct, I ask: will we give the airports to the Germans? Can you tell us about this? Is it in the file of our negotiating team? Are we giving the airports to the Germans? Do we agree with this agreement initiated by the previous government? Give me some answers. I was in Chania and they tell me that it is impossible, because Mr Stathakis, who is now Minister for the Right of Mr Tsipras, has said that there is no way a government left-wing government can give the airports to the Germans. Will they be given, as your negotiating team says, or is that something that we imagined?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u142	What's your point of view?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u143	Our point of view? We told Crete and she's very clear. You see, I answer your questions very promptly and I would like you to do something similar. We don't hide behind our finger. We say that the agreement, once it has been signed and launched - and this also applies to any other agreement - must be respected in the following sense, that the country has a follow-up. Unless the Government considers that there is a major problem of corruption, it is a major issue of 'Lambia'. There, of course, will bring it and bring the evidence and we will all go and say, 'We are taking this agreement back'. If we were planning the map of privatisations with airports, we'd do something different. We would divide the airports into at least two categories, we would have two blocks, so there would be a great competition and there would be no one who would have the airports, but there would be at least two, so that society could win more. I heard you, Mr President-in-Office, but the applause from the SYRIZA side was very dense and I did not understand exactly what you said. I would like you to say what your opinion on the loan is in the end. Is it a moral issue or is it a material requirement? Because you said here that it is material, there is a material requirement in Germany too, and you said that it is a moral issue, and now you are probably returning to the former, the view of the domestic government, that it is a material matter. For us - because you're going to ask me again - to tell you: Lease loan is a material requirement. We say that the mortgage loan - and we said it at the very first moment - is an pending Germany to Greece, like the claims in Distomo, Kalavrita, in areas of Crete. It's a specific loose end. Of course, we disagreed with this dreadful thing that some of us from the Ministry of Justice left in four interviews, that "if they don't give us the money soon, we'll start the confiscations, we'll take Goethe or another institution". We therefore say that investment should go ahead. Greece will not get out of this gutter right now if there are no investments. You should be informed, Mr President-in-Office, that the situation in the economy today is tragic. You'll know that within the two-month period we've had six hundred businesses that shut down in Attica six hundred businesses! - Two hundred businesses in Thessaloniki and the GSEW figures - not my data - say that within the first half of 2015 eight and a half thousand padlocks are expected. This is the real situation in the economy, with 44% stating that it is unable to pay wages to businesses. And one final question: is the agreement with the Americans? Because, if it is true and sold the oil already and we got 30% of the deposits, and if the front page of the newspaper "AGEY" is applicable: "Modes are there", all the words we make here are superfluous. But give an answer and do not cover behind the general position of some of your advisers or ministers in the corridors of the Parliament: "Do not take seriously what the Minister of Defence says." He's a Minister of Defense! He's in America and he says there's a proposal for 70% - 30%. Is that true? Has there been a study that says that's how we have to move? We are with you - and I'm not afraid to say it - to fight some big battles on the big debt case. We used to say that in the run-up to the election. You were talking about a haircut. We were saying clearly that there must be a restructuring of the debt. We're talking about it now. There must be a restructuring of the debt. We're saying there's something else that privatization money should fight not to go to debt. We need to change this agreement with our European partners and take the money to an investment fund. It's essential that this money for the economy right now. Continuing the small list of points on which we are with you, I will tell you - and I have said it before - that you should bring the rules on broadcasting. We're with you. We're with you to finally find an answer for those on the Lagard list. From the first speech I made here in Parliament, I said there's something bigger than Lagard List and it's Nicolude List. I told the Minister I visited him. We are with him in trying to control those who made their money out, the 'black money', those who have their money in Switzerland and those who in any way have won against the Greek people all these years. As far as Siemens is concerned, the Germans will give us answers. I told it today to those who visited me from Germany. And of course we should give the battle to get answers about what happened in Switzerland. I have here a specific proposal for you. Because the Swiss are probably not going to listen to us - I mean that they will be so late for our request, - I would suggest that your Government will try to put Greece together with some other countries that have similar requirements from Switzerland, that is to say, that the Europeans - as they want to help us, because this thing has no financial costs for them - together with their own battle and battle in Greece. In other words, we should enter Europe's chariot, claiming Switzerland's answers to those who have money abroad. You will allow me here to say something that I set out a few days ago and I did not get an answer. The banks have drained. There is a very big debate about where the country is going, about whether we are in danger of having the same currency in the summer, etc. There is one move that your ministers will have to make, and there is one move that all Members will have to make. The money of the ministers, the money of the MPs, who are in Europe must return to the Greek banks. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Let's all take the same risk, both the politicians and the people. For I feel that people are talking safe, that is to say, "Don't be afraid, we're not in danger, but I'm in danger for good and for bad my money is out." No, the money's coming here. We don't incriminate them. Very reasonable at some point they probably had a job abroad, and the money was abroad. I'm saying. now that they took up government duties and didn't expect it, that the money would come back. I told you what things we will support, the fight against corruption and everything else. You will allow me to speak to you a little bit about the things that you will find us in full against you. You are already creating many problems as a government in a very sensitive area in the field of education. It was unprecedented what this government did, with your "good morning" coming and abolishing school standards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u144	He didn't dismantle anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u145	We told them that a left-wing government - as it wants to call it - is working together and not so left-wing, should adopt a position that Potami had been clear from the very beginning. And it is - you know - the proposal by Mateo Renci and Italy: Creating pilot schools throughout the country, in the poor areas. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Instead, you dismantle the school standards, abolish the teachers' exams, put in isolation students who want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u146	Can I interrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u147	Let me finish, at least, my sentence. And that's not all. You exaggerate, Minister of Education, the teachers who came without taking money to help the Greek universities and told them something stupid about what they did. They came here to help without money big universities from all over the country, from all over Europe, from all over America - you know the names - and you told them they came unjustly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u148	With a teleconferencing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u149	Of course, you have made sure the next day that you say that what is important is that the 'eternal' become 'eternal' again. Teachers should stay here and continue to help the effort of the Greek university. I could go on - but I will try somewhere here to finish - the long list of those to which we are going to collide with you. It's the ideas of a part of your party. In these ideas, you will find us across the street, because we have the feeling that too many of the ministers of government are fighting you the impossibility, wanting to avoid fighting as far as possible. There is, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a dilemma, but it is not what you are asking. Is the country's real dilemma at the moment: conflict with interests, with the guilds, with the drachma lobby or with a European course? This is the dilemma, that is, whether we should conflict with the interests and the guilds and the drachma lobby, which is starting and being created in the country and has some enthusiasts among the SYRIZA MPs. The dilemma in the next few days is very simply one: big changes and reforms and Europe or exit and national tragedy? That is our dilemma and you should give an answer. We will defend in this House every effort to rule of law, a dynamic economy and social protection. Let me make a small recommendation to some of the government who show a very great weakness in the election slogan. They must begin to pass through the pleasure of slogans to the pleasure of action, as Aristotle said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u151	Our people very wisely say: 'The good day since the morning seems'. And the conspiracy of SYRIZA and of Independent Greeks, not only did it not immediately bring to Parliament a law to abolish the memorials, loan contracts and laws, since it had in the run-up to elections, but on the contrary proceeded with a new agreement to extend the existing memorandum, with what this implies to our people. Not only that, but for more than forty days now, it has not been the necessary convening of the House, not just for a formal, fast track, discussion and information, but for the effective participation and placement of the parties, the Members of Parliament, to see whether this new agreement - a commitment signed by the government, and indeed by roll-call vote, is agreed by the government so that every man on the bench. But today, let me say that it was not even briefed. There has been a repetition of slogans, well-known issues and pre-election and post-election from the programme statements and nothing else. Of course, we can explain your position and why you repeat even more awkwardly what the previous ones have done in the various conflicts and why you have led to today's parody - debate, in essence. You know, most likely, you need to raise your hand and vote together with the New Democracy and the PASOK to extend the Memorandum agreement. The "yes" of the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK would meet in this case with the "yes" of SYRIZA MPs, so avoid such a debate and vote in the House, as requested by the Communist Party of Greece, such as the devil of lygani. Gentlemen of the government, the Greek people do well to know exactly what is happening, to start distinguishing lies from truths, advertising tricks and frauds from genuine information and opinion. In fact, we need to know and make it clear: First, you are trying to present as tough and proud a negotiation that contains privatisation of the country's strategic infrastructure, airports, ports, public enterprises, new tax-free in popular layers, exemptions for groups, a review of exemptions from the general provisions of the pension system and others on this subject. You are trying to hide behind your misleading slogans for the end of austerity and for anti-African measures, which will bring great prosperity to everyone, that you are in fact committed to moving on to the well-known anti-grassrooted path of privatisation and liberalisation of strategic areas. You are presenting us as new, philosophical, form of privatisation of public-private partnerships, as if we do not have enough experience in our country by the PPPs and concession contracts. You are claiming to be a great battle for your reservations to increase further the retirement threshold and you are hiding that you have already accepted the great increase in the pension thresholds brought by the previous governments and promote the counter-retirement against any early retirement. You call on the people to be proud to work to the deep ages to get a hunger pension. You have already taken the next step on the new robbery of the reserves of the insurance funds with the recent internal lending measures. You are ready to move on to new increases in anti-popular indirect taxes, while announcing new state expenditure on armaments from the United States of America. You are calling on us to fight against tax evasion while maintaining the provocative tax relief for big capital for shipowners. What you are really negotiating is a relative relaxation of today's restrictive policy to ensure more state money for domestic monopolistic groups. Your "superior" negotiation concerns the interests of the ruling class you seek to serve as a government, as are the previous ones. As if this negotiation turns out, the people will be around the corner again and they will be lost if they do not organise their opposition in time. Secondly, you are trying to present your trips and your meetings as a multi-dimensional and profitable foreign policy, hiding that you are trying to balance - and indeed dangerous - between steadfast contradictions of strong players within the international imperialist system. You are trying to look good and useful to everyone, Europeans and Americans, Russians and Chinese, hiding from the people that you are doing all of this precisely because they are related to the sharing of the market pie, which of course serves and anticipates the big capital, the monopolistic groups, with nothing important for the people to win. In fact, the Minister of National Defence during his visit to America made a series of unacceptable and dangerous statements. The government has a great responsibility: Inviting the US to take the role of a transatlantic regulator of the country's energy wealth and presenting it as a force of stability is a challenge to our people. Experience has shown that such solutions not only undermine sovereign rights, but lead our people to new adventures. So the government gave credentials to the United States of America. The Greek people must know that, apart from the well-known conflict within the European Union, they are today playing even more role than other factors, such as the US-German intercourse for the leadership in Europe. The United States of America aims to reduce Europe's energy dependence on Russia, as well as weakening the German-Russian relationship and by escalating the conflict in Ukraine. At the same time, we must not lose sight of the fact that we have ongoing the implementation of the new Atlantic intervention plans in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, in the Middle East, with the lever of the Islamic State, the jihadists, with the aim of controlling the markets, developments and the region directly from the United States of America. You are trying to look good and useful to Americans, Europeans, etc., stressing that you are available to participate in interventions in the region, on the pretext of defending supposedly the Christian populations, but concealing from the people that such statements and actions contain immediate risks of greater involvement in imperialist wars, to which only our people, their children, will have victims. Thirdly, you have been trying for two months now to give the battle of the unsurpassed and superficial symbolisms without substance, for propaganda reasons, which eventually become a deception of advertising! Don't you know that there's the popular saying "one thief, two thief, three and his bad day"? Honestly, we do not care at all how you name the memos for your own reasons, nor how you say the troika. After all, since the beginning of the crisis, we have been the only party that has been saying that many names can be found for it. And you found them: "Three institutions", "Brussels Group" etc. The same work is done by all of them, as did the troika with other now managers. Speaking of which, we should remind you that from the outset we had objected to the call-to-memorandum separation, the 'immemorandum', the 'immemorandum-antimonetary powers'. We had revealed, as fakes, these divisions and we say that you are using them to hide from the people their real reasons and the reasons for the memorandum all these shameful agreements. And these reasons have not ceased to exist because you have been to the government and they are not others, of course, that the memoranda are permanent claims of BSE, that is why the European Union's unpopular measures are being implemented everywhere in the European Union and where they have memoranda and where they do not. It is precisely the implementation of these claims by the capitalists and the European Union that will continue with individual perhaps differences in mixtures, without changing the substance and the next period. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been following for two months the known recipe, which is one of the cultivation of false hopes and expectations, and the other of the exploitation of trade in fear, terrorism and insecurity that our people feel. We've already got a taste of the squeezed and these measures of absolute impoverishment. The so-called "humanist" bill became a law to shield the new anti-popular storm that comes in the future. By law, therefore, the people are poor again, legally exploiting and impoverished. You keep telling us it's still early. There's no early, we say, or later for a human and decent life. It'll either be human or it'll be terrible, inhumane. Mean poverty, middle hunger, middle health, middle education, middle life don't exist. Life or there is or does not exist. Life is like a play that is played for once, with no rehearsal and no rehearsal. And the JRC doesn't play with the people, nor does it make suits and ties, nor do it half-smiling self-smiling or, much more, cheating on the people. And from the Step of the House, we tell you that the statements are over, the damn bullies are over, today you rule, you sign laws. You are now a partner in the bourgeoisie toolbox. You've become government. You're accountable to the people, not the JRC. We will not wish you, as New Democracy, the PASOK, other parties to succeed. They all tell you to succeed, because you are on the same track, from the point of view of defending power, of monopolies. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, the Potami, the PASOK have supported, supported the four-month bridge agreement. It is on the line of reaching any sacrifice of compromise with the partners to reach a new agreement, no matter what it is called. And in this, of course, normally, they tend to be helping your government. Other parties, such as some forces on the extra-parliamentary Left - as they are said - others, even unbrained, the Golden Dawn, too, are talking about returning to the drachma, in another currency, in the course of this system, its capitalist union, the European Union, the choice of such alliances. You, gentlemen of the coup d'état, listen between these two versions and call them both the left ones. And you are seeking a compromise and a new agreement, since at the moment at least the partners in the European Union and the United States of America want at least to have strong parts of Greece's bourgeois order and some of your officials, Ministers, at the same time, flirt with the idea of one - even - destabilisation of the Eurozone, even out of the euro, always of course, in the context of the European Union's'strong alliance' and the capitalist development path. Alas! The proposal of the Communist Party of Greece is on the opposite side. That is why we have been saying since the first day 'no tolerance to the new agreement, which is preparing new long-term commitments'. That is why we are saying 'the abolition here and now of all the Memorandums, their implementing laws'. That is why we are saying 'a struggle for the recovery of the losses, beginning with concrete immediate measures for the real relief of the people'. That is why we call 'a break with the European Union, capital and their power'. That is why our difference is day after night with those who put the euro out of the line of exit, distracted, without saying what will happen, without giving an answer and a solution to the problem of power, of who will own the concentrated means of production, unbundling the country from the European Union to plan centrally, scientifically, nationally, the country's economy, social services, so as to make full use of the wealth that exists in this country, to allocate the resources, the workforce, so that they all have a permanent and stable job, that is, to say, the satisfaction of the people's needs that will lead to the well-being of the people and the country. And he who gets power, as Breech said, is no longer, in our view, from the working class itself, her people, who will build a radically new, different society. Otherwise in another currency the system will continue to admit in its judgments. The urban state, what we know, will still replicate rot, corruption, scandals and you will run to collect them - supposedly - to be forgotten after a while. The country will remain chained to Imperialist alliances, deadlocks and one of the same for the people and youth. Our party has tabled a proposal for a law on the abolition of memoranda and implementing laws. We have also tabled amendments for the immediate relief of people's households. The government's majority, however, is actually sabotaging this proposal for a law. He's got other priorities, you see. Instead of bringing to the House such bills, which really alleviate the people and open a different path, all of them are involved, from the Prime Minister to the Finance Ministers and put them on a daily basis, to give, on a daily basis, interviews to Greece, all over the world, not only to falsify the world, as some people say, but also to attack the Communist Party of Greece because, he says, he does not support the anti-grass decisions and the memoranda, the new agreements that are negotiating hard. They call the JRC invincible, a party that has given its best children in the struggle for the prevalence of the most progressive ideas, for the good of the people, for the good of the country. We understand them. We fully understand what is bothering you. You are disturbed by the fact that the Communist Party of Greece remains a firm opponent of Euroatlanticism, all those whom you are today giving 'a booze and water'. We're not going to step back. We continue dynamically, decisively from the Step of the Parliament and the streets with the popular movement until they dawn better days for our people and our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. Mr Venizelos, President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group. Mr. Kammenos will be represented by Mr. Nicholas. However, since he is a parliamentary representative, the President of the European Parliament will precede the President of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, every parliamentary debate, even today, in the context of the brief and abstract procedure referred to in Rule 142a, is welcome because it helps first of all to understand how you, Mr Tsipras, and the majority Members of the majority have been locked up, putting the country at risk. It helps to realize how shallow communication internal consumption games are. The current procedure, of course, Prime Minister, does not cover a clear violation of Parliament's legislative powers. It does not cover the fact that the Government signed the amendment and extension of the main financial facility contract, which expressly refers to the Memorandum and the assessments of the Troika, in the absence of legislative authorisation. You have hidden the extension text, so that it does not appear to have taken you out of your hands the 11 billion-dollar reserve of the Financial Stability Fund, and now you are begging to get back to 1.2 billion, due to sharp cash requirements. Good, 'hard' negotiation! The relevant texts, I gave them to you preventive and in advance, when we met at the Maximos Mansion on 18 February and gave them back to the House on 20 March. Now you come to make announcements before the House. What are the announcements made today? What are the real facts which have been put before this House today? None. You've come to ask us, from the opposition, the change in your demagogic lies, not just in the election, but in the last five years. Well, that's going too far, I have to tell you, Mr. Tsipras! You owe your political and electoral standing to anti-immemorial psalmology, and that was done on the back of our own responsibility. As if there was a better and easier solution, and we did not apply it. You are now living the tough and difficult negotiation - but hard on the part of creditors - in 2015. Think of what was happening in 2010, 2011, 2012, what was at stake, the dangers of the country's collapse. As if we had a choice between a good solution and a bad one. We had a solution to the adjustment safely or to the uncomplicated bankruptcy and total destruction. Think of what happened at the time when you said big and easy words, which were misleading and poisoning the thought of a large part of the Greek people. Two months ago she voted for you 36% of the Greek people. Look out, 36%! You add the figure of ANELs, Mr Kammenos, that is 42%. I told you, in June 2012, the tripartite government voted for it by 47% of the Greek people. He did not dare, he did not think of telling the House at that time that democracy was restored and that the government is a government that changes the flow of history to the place. Everything is judged every day. The legalisation of each government lasts one day. And it must be confirmed in practice. With what thought did 36% of the Greek people vote for you? Given the fact that the country has definitively passed the cavo and is safe. So we can try something else. He did not know how easily he could be destroyed within a few weeks. He voted for you with the expectation to achieve something more and better, not to cancel the people's sacrifices and achievements and get the country to the edge of the disaster, while he was ready to take the step out of the memorandum and go through the preventive credit line. Instead of continuing where the country was on the eve of the elections, you went a mile back. Deep inside the Memorandum, unfortunately, after July, the Memorandum 3. Memorandum 3, we have now heard, in the context of the new language, as Orwell described in '1984', not called the 'new Memorandum'. So this so-called Memorandum 3 is the fatal target in June. What do you mind negotiating in February on, Mr Tsipras, using our own red lines, adding your own, but with the aim of paying the remaining instalments of the loan and Europe and the IMF, getting out of the memorandum, moving to the preventive credit line, gradually protected return to the markets? What did you really mind going on the substance with the list of reforms, which you started talking about a few days ago? Of course, unspeakable and unspeakable, but why didn't you do that right away? I'll tell you what's bothering you. The symbolism, words and protection of the anti-immemorial lies. You say that the previous government has attempted to trap you in the two-month extension, while the previous government left you with a clean and secure framework to move the country. And that framework you've ruined in a few weeks. You have had two valuable months and you have aggravated all financial sizes by playing a meaningless and dangerous internal consumption game. The result? Lack of revenue, loss of deposits, cancellation of the primary surplus, cancellation of the positive growth rate, reintroduction of stress for credit and Grexit, an anguish cultivated by the government with statements from its officials. Remember what has been said and what has finally happened in these two months, which are equivalent to years and are turning us back in 2009. You said: "We do not want an extension of the memorandum, but a bridge program." What happened? You signed an extension of the House, and you received all 11 billion. You said: 'We do not want the doses, but only an increase in ELA for more insect letters'. And the profits of the system from the Greek state bonds, which are held by the central banks of the euro area countries, the SMP's, that is, 1.9 billion, that we took one night as a profit in the Eurogroup, springing from 21 to 22 February 2012. I was Minister of Finance, I participated in that Eurogroup. What happened? Beg for doses. ELA is constantly increasing, it has reached 110 to 140 billion deposits, it does not raise the interest limit, but interest bills are only renewed by the Greek banks. Result: The public pulls all the liquidity and drys the real economy. You said: 'We are not talking about the troika'. What happened? You negotiate with the “three institutions”, Athens Group and you run from hotel to hotel! You said: "We will take unilateral action on debt if necessary, we will not serve the debt and we will organise an international conference." What happened? At first you asked for implementation of the 2012 commitments, those that we agreed, which you had denounced with passion. And now you're chewing them. From absolute silence to vagueness, but parametric changes within the 2012 Agreement. You said, historically worse: 'Let the legal claim for German corrections be open.' We agree, we voted for it. And what happened? Mr Tsipras went to Berlin and stated, binding the country before Mrs Merkel, that the issue is historical and moral. This will be invoked by the Germans as an official resignation of legal claims. Cultivate anti-Germanism and, at the same time, declare ready to share the Aegean's mineral wealth 70-30 with the United States, which treat you as graphic when they hear such things. You are asking for a loan from Russia, which has itself a huge economic crisis and did not give Cyprus 2 billion. While it is of course a friendly country that can help in another way, but not like this. We'll figure out what you're talking about with the Chinese and what's going on, I guess you're all confused. You are even looking for Iran if Iran will buy Greek bonds, while you know that what we owe Iran for oil cannot be paid for because of the international embargo of the Security Council. You are in a cash stalemate, which, strangely, you have turned into a geopolitical deadlock for the country! That's unique!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u154	And is that a laugh?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u155	You've come...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u156	Is that a laugh?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u157	No, it's not for laughing. It's crying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u158	But you're laughing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u159	He's cryin'! We know where you're crying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u160	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u161	You've come into strategic caging. You do not have a social and national breach order or a parliamentary majority to support you in the direction of responsibility. You have, I said another time, a legalisation crisis just two months after the elections. That's why your choice is dilute. The spread that eats the flesh of the country. And the preventive transfer of responsibility for impacting any deadlock on strangers, on the previous, on the Opposition. That's what you've been told. Opposition prevents you! Ten weeks you play the same game, from a worse position every week, to win a week. We first passed the Varoufakis phase. Interviews, meetings, narcissism. The battle with Mr. Diaselblum body with body in Athens, Eurogroup 11 February, nothing. Eurogroup February 16th, nothing. Eurogroup 20 February, agreement with creative ambiguity. Letter of Varoufakis, seven proposals, with top of the well-collected contributors to small and medium-sized tax collectors. And the first month was eaten! Mr. Varoufakis went to Berlin for a meeting with Mr. Shoeble. First convening of the Brussels Group. The second month was eaten. Mr. Tsipras's phase is beginning. Seven-day meeting in Brussels. The joint communiqué of the Presidents of the three institutions of the Union says very simple things: 'Go to the Troika and then to the Eurogroup'. Then we go to Mrs. Merkel, with whom we negotiate. We recognize that negotiation is taking place with it, that the Prime Minister recognises it and enjoys it. And we have the new list of reforms presented today by the Prime Minister. What did the Prime Minister say today? Is that the price list of reforms? Because I have heard today say that what we are proposing is that revenues from the trafficking in fuels, cigarettes and beverages, avoiding fines for the non-application of Community law, revenues from black and undeclared labour, electronic VAT return, television advertising tax. How much, how, where, when, then? What's the timeline? We expect the Eurogroup together with Easter to do what and how much? How far will the agreement you're pursuing take us? What happens after April? What's going to happen on June 30th? What is the financial framework? The financial target for 2015, I am not even saying for 2016. When and how will you raise the issue of debt and parametric changes? When? You are talking about reforms and reforms. But this is primarily the financial and financial gap. Reforms are assessed on the basis of what they contribute financially. That is why everyone is saying'specific and measurable proposals'. And we can't talk about one-off measures, but about measures that will have a return next year, because if you have one-off measures, what you win becomes a gap for next year. In the meantime, while “AGE” cries “there are money”, proceed to the scanning of the funds reserves, of the legal persons governed by public law, of the OAED, of the Region of Attica, of agricultural subsidies. And while you think you're exercising tax policy, you just have tax-suppressive stress. You brought in as an emergency, what you reported after abomination, the hundred-dollar bill, while there was a digitized arrangement, which you undermined with your promises and the election demagogy. And after you voted on the urgent bill on the other day, a legislative act was adopted signed by the government which denounced the legislative procedure, and signed it, and the President of the Republic, of course, whom the President of Parliament, too, had called on the President of Parliament to refuse his signature in legislative acts, without strict compliance with the constitutional requirements and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u162	It was in favour of people's interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u163	Who is favoured by the act of legislation? We will see in the debate in Parliament who favours. Why are you now abolishing tax penalties, tax evasion and smuggling, not just fines and simple increases due to delay and inability to pay? And what about the ten-day tax discounts you voted on? Ten days to clean up whoever wants. We have received, says Mr. Tsipras, a hundred million euros. Five hundred, you said you'd be recovered. Bring in and see who has benefited from this arrangement. We will also see who will benefit from the legislative act. The greatest feat? You are turning Greek society into a low expectations society. You say: 'We are terrible, because we have not been bankrupt and why we have managed to pay wages and pensions'. Then why shouldn't everyone be happy? It's Hoja's logic. All the animals entered the house, they can't breathe, they took out one and they breathe. You put the self-exploitation dilemma: If we cannot pay salaries and pensions and international obligations, we will pay salaries and pensions. Sure. You always pay first wages and pensions and schools, and hospitals. But if you get to this dilemma, in a few days, you won't have to pay for wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u164	Next month, you won't have one!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u165	In short, the government denounces the partners because they do not follow the memorandum and do not give us the instalments. They do not respect the memorandum that the government itself does not want to say it applies. The theatre of irrational cowardice! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] You're welcome. Now you're asking us to applaud you. The question: To destroy the country? Or to make her a caster at no political cost? What are both of them? [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] The answer is, no! This kind of help you don't expect neither the destruction nor the costless scout. We support the national strategy, the only one that exists and exists. National consensus, the National Trading Team. Did you hear Mr. Tsipras say anything about this? Did he invite us to a debate on the substance? He invited us to a national trading team? While he knows that we sent a letter and asked the socialist and social democrat leaders to help the government before the Eurogroup of 20 February. That's none of your business. We support the national strategy, but we do not support humiliation, arrogance, irresponsibility. You have managed to win the power, and I must tell you here - take note of this, because we will once again discuss it in detail - that the responsibility of Europeans, especially the Germans, is very great for the fact that the Greek people finally voted to form the heirly government of SYRIZA - ANEL. Now you're enjoying it. [[Noise - laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] You're laughing when you should cry, as Mr. Friend told you. You are enjoying it, having delivered to Mr Kammenos the saints of the saints of national affairs. And there are no escapes. There is no referendum. The essential question will always be yes or no to the euro, no matter what. For budgetary matters, referendums shall be prohibited. Elections? With what programming framework and what line? This ambiguity cannot be maintained. There are no escapes. Everything's getting paid here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u166	With the Committee of Inquiry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010, when the crisis started, SYRIZA had 4.7% and PASOK 44%. In five years, we'll talk comfortably. Bad news is we'll talk in less than five months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u168	With who president?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u169	Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is one. The Greek Government must express the country as a whole rather than the heirly majority of SYRIZA - ANEL. You were talking about dosing government. We support you. We voted for the Preferential Legislation, although the Guaranteed Social Income was a much more comprehensive plan. We voted on the hundred doses, although there was a setup, which you undermined. We will not, however, vote for the prudence of the legislative act. We therefore support you if you finally realise that there is a national strategy. If you take your responsibility without games, no complacency and arrogant, no dangerous improvisations and refluxes, no line of blind impact or slide. Our concern was, and it's always home and we paid for it, but it's okay. It's a historical duty. It's time for the citizens to understand what we've been through as a nation, what we've been through, the uncompromising bankruptcy and the total destruction. What we conquered thanks to their own efforts. This national acquis, ladies and gentlemen of the government and of the majority, you must respect it. Don't play with the national interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u170	There is a manifest failure to comply with time. Mr Venizelos spoke twenty-two minutes and thirty-two seconds of the five that the parties' leaders deserve. Before I give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaopoulos, and to be absolutely clear, I would like to make it clear that the Rules of Procedure provide that the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the Opposition Parliament are speaking. He has no provision for Communism. However, the Rules of Procedure for all parliamentary groups have always been applied. Here, Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u171	Madam President, you have done very well and I hope you have had another time and others have had even greater mood, Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos, who have left with such a stumbling block from power. So, today, we heard Mr. Samara say that we owe a lot to those who name them on the Lagard list. I imagine you heard that! We owe them a lot, he says. Yes, sir! I wish we could have another 'Papastaurus', says Mr Samaras, Prime Minister. And you probably should have told Mrs Merkel that she asked you, because Mrs. Merkel didn't know the best, namely that Mr. Samaras had the wolf guarding the sheep: she sent Mr. Papastavrous. Wasn't that who you testified to us? I saw he had a picture too. I would ask whether I was wrong, because I was sitting on the mountains. That's what we were talking about, isn't it? Okay. Don't blame him. So, when the Lagard list came out, he went by order Antonis Samaras - after all, you remember, at that time, he was on Samaras' orders, it was the first time - in the Swiss banks, Prime Minister, accompanying Mr Mavragani. In fact, parliamentary scrutiny was carried out because we did not believe that the country's Prime Minister could send Mr Papastavrous to the Swiss banks to sign up for the agreement that the Prime Minister said today that Chancellor of Germany was asking. Oh, God! This is where we go "mart, we're here"! Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard today repeat the election speech of Antonis Samaras. It's a pity he hasn't yet realized that nobody listens to him while he insists on this monotonous rhetoric! He said exactly the same thing that the Greek people evaluated. In fact, we heard the Deputy Prime Minister today - a little while ago, Mr. Venizelos, had not felt very well just as a co-chairman - telling the government and Mr. Tsipras "to us, he says, you owe the government". Did you hear him today? How's it going? Why? And in the end he told the Germans too. Because yes, indeed, if it has a dose of self-criticism, 'bravo, Mr Venizele!'. Because when he began his speech from this step, I said: 'What modest!'. But then when he revealed that the great sponsors are Samaras and Venizelos to come to the government, it was a confession of their failed policy. "Ladies and colleagues," said Mr Venizelos, "What's wrong with you? Why didn't you go with our recipe, that is, the one that described the e-mail Hardouvelis?” Well, really, he thinks the Greeks don't really understand? But what if his own recipe had been applied? How many pensions, wages, redundancies today? But they are not so important to Mr Venizelos or to Mr Samaras. Because he said so clearly to us today: 'Reforms', he says 'don't fool around, it means sacrifices. That is why what you say reforms, he says, are 'not reforms'. Reforms without blood of the people, what reforms are these?" [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, we understood it very well. And while all of this told us it was happening in two months, he was happy here. And how can it be so tragic and dramatic that the situation itself, from the Step of the House, before us and the Greek people, can enjoy it? But at the same time the question arises: ‘After all this, it is nothing different from what the two co-chairmen have done, then why do foreigners not enjoy? Why don't they hug, so happy, as they went to every meeting they had with them? Why do they do everything, new mines add? One by government of Tsipras, five by them. Why? Well, anyway, it's the same. Isn't that how he told us? What do they mind-- why did they lose their friends? - since it's the same politics? Ladies and gentlemen, however, we have also heard of the 'holy saints'. Mr. Tsipras, you didn't know. That's why Mr. Venizelos called home the files when he was Minister of Defense. Although he didn't know about computers, he took them home-- remember it here in the House? - because they were "the saints of the saints". And he tells you, how do we leave the saints? Well done, we all understood very well today. Well, maybe some people can't understand, because maybe today they thought they could do a TV show entitled "What I remember, I'm glad". Because that's it. They once said to Parliament 'a very serious debate at the level of the Heads','memorandum for that'. Today, I heard many say under 'what he remembers is happy'. In fact, it was not even Parliamentary control of what the Head of the River said. However, he and Mr Venizelos did not understand the value of the country's mineral wealth and indeed at this stage. I am not saying about Mr Samaras, because Mr Samaras was an election, when he was an antimony, today he recalled it again - he said: 'I was an antimony. And I was the greatest antimony with my policy." He said what Mr. Kammenos said in America and what they do today they don't understand. Mr. Theodorakis got a little confused. He thought 30% of us were going to hold, but it probably wouldn't matter very much, I think, as far as I understand Mr. Theodorakis is concerned. But it matters. I saw that others were his priorities. That divoretic "or" I didn't understand again. He says: “The dilemma we have today to decide is not what the Prime Minister said. It is: or European course or...’; Look at the Minutes. Dear Mr. Fotila, if you see the Minutes you will understand that Mr. Theodorakis has no dilemma. He's answered everything. He didn't make a dilemma because he seems to have no. Ladies and gentlemen, it is perhaps the first time that, on the initiative of the Greek Prime Minister, the Greek Parliament has been officially informed and, in many years, the leaders of the political parties have been given the opportunity to put themselves at a very critical moment. And from this point of view, it is a historic meeting, since before the Greek Parliament the head of each parliamentary group chooses one of the two camps. What do you understand? What camp did the anti-population leaders pick? The in-depth Greeks or foreign strong lenders? What arguments have they put before us? We are constantly listening to the opposition talking about the disaster that is coming, because we are fighting for a beneficial agreement. And yet, ultimately, it is time for clear and clear choices. We cannot go to the rocks and at the same time hear from the Step here that we will vote for you, vote on the bills you bring. You cannot say that the bills brought by the government are unilateral, since they have not been written by the troika, but by the Greek Government, but on the other hand, say that this brings the disaster. Pick, finally! Ladies and gentlemen, the responsibilities of those who have disastrously handled and disastrous decisions have turned Greece's relations with the other Eurozone countries and the European Union itself into a relationship between an equal partner and a Member State, unequal and subliminary relationship with creditors, this shameful event in which the oligarchy and the inadequacy of the Greek people condemned the Greek people of Memorandum co-pirates has led our country and our people, is trying to overthrow - and to a large extent it has been achieved gradually - the new government. And what I'm saying, ladies and gentlemen, I think it matters, because it proves two realities, which, unfortunately, we've all been able to forget in this House and in this country. The first is, yes, that today's Greek government has completed two months of life, negotiating hard since the first day, unfortunately for some. The next of her oath did not welcome the troika representatives to the Maximos Mansion as Mr Samaras did. In the same afternoon, Mr. Tomsen visited the Maximos Palace to give them her credentials and unfortunately for some others, he did not play the role of "Revolution without cause", throwing the country and Europe into a new and unpaid adventure. Fortunately for our people, though. Because, as she promised to the people, she stood up, she gave and gives the battle of arguments, which she continues, in order to remove the memorial latitude, persuading her partners not to be seen as a rescue for a state through the destruction of citizens. The citizens know that and they recognize it, because they see that at last our country has voices, has positions, negotiates, resists, says 'no' when and wherever necessary. It does not passively accept the claims of the lenders, it does not subjugate fatally in their jewels, but puts it dynamically on the negotiating agenda and its own priorities, based on the needs of the Greek society and the demands of the Greek economy. Of course, it was and remains a difficult process. No one has ever said that it would be easy, especially since for five years locals and foreigners had become used to it differently, that is, the Greek governments simply constitute translators and performers outside orders. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been given the opportunity several times and we will be saying this once again today: does anyone doubt that the previous agreements, the memorandums, have led us to a parallel deadlock? Is there anyone in the United States or in the European Union who does not support the need to change a roadmap that was uniquely characteristic of austerity? Even Ms. Merkel minus listening to the success story. So we had to start something new that would give the prospect of getting out of the unprecedented crisis on a realism basis. In this context, the new government is negotiating. In this negotiations many have invested in fear and now in failure. I am sorry, but they will be disappointed, because we are not seeking to break, but to make a composition of views, and we think that we are close. Look, the very important issue of budgetary surpluses has already changed. The result of this very difficult procedure with the many carves is that it is confusing the parties of previous coexistence, which, in the sixty days of this government, have said thirty times that the country is going to the rocks and another thirty times that it's going to the rocks. Comeco-tragic image. We are therefore appealing to all colleagues in Anti-Population to understand the criticality of moments and to support the national effort together, even though we must do away with those who may have bills or possibly have lush ones and may be concerned if they are removed. But I honestly wonder about some late worries about the Greek economy. They are the same that led a country to 27% unemployment, deflation -3%, dismantling the country's production base and the insurance system. It seems that it remains impossible for some to understand what negotiation means. They have our sympathy, but there's nothing we can do for them. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reality in the short term, which has passed through the vowing and functioning of the new government, despite the difficult negotiation and the moral commitments, which in fact exist, has already been passed on to some very important bills for the relief of citizens. Of course, in voting on these bills, we did not understand exactly what the opposition parties were, a position which can be justified in the context of their disruption, but which I spoke a little earlier on. But they have to know they won't give them to us. They'll give them to the people. It was the second time in ten days, Prime Minister, who Mr. Venizelos talks about elections. I don't know. Is he so tired? Doesn't he see the polls? He quickly wants to go back to his academic career? Only 2% were shown yesterday by the large polling companies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth choosing whom we are and much greater whom we serve. That is why I would just like to add the following on behalf of the President of the Independent Greeks, Panos Kammenos, and the Group of Independent Greeks. We have supported and continue to support this government of Alexis Tsipras, because it is really negotiating. A negotiation aimed at an honest and beneficial agreement for all sides. Of course, it also includes concessions from all sides. Of all, I repeat. And at least, as far as the side of today's government is concerned, it has become clear that concessions can be made, but not such ones that perpetuate the austerity and bleeding of the people and ultimately the vicious circle that does not help the economy and destroy society. The new government and the Prime Minister are working hard, proving that the greatest weapon of a politician is always the truth. They have not hidden the truth so far, no matter how difficult it was or how bad it sounded in the ears of some in Greece and abroad. In truth, however, honest and compact relationships, as well as consistent marches, are being built. Ladies and gentlemen, even if we need to bleed, passing between the contributors, which you of the previous Samara-Venizelos conflict have set up to crush our people and give their flesh north to foreign interests, we will do so. We're talking red lines and you're ironing us, and that's understandable, because all the lines you set were colourless and dispersed. But it is unfair to ask for the change, you who have sedated the way of today's government into the logic of 'I die my soul with the strangers'. Fortunately for the Greek people, the new government is deactivating one of the mines that the previous Samara-Venizelos coup d'état set up. It keeps the country upright and continues to cover its obligations in full. I think we all agree that it is self-evident that incentives should be given to enable citizens to start paying their debts to public and insurance funds. It is also obvious that the Greek Prime Minister is entitled to refer to German Chancellor the issue of German allowances, the mortgage loan and the issue of ‘SIEMENS’. Finally, I believe that it is a self-evident duty for the Prime Minister to keep the country upright and proud by showing in the most eloquent way to everyone that the Greek people do not intend to get a loan on a continuous basis to pay the loan. He only condemns the possibility of re-establishing his country on new and strong foundations. That is what the current government of social salvation is doing, and that is why we support it, as the great majority of the Greek people support it, a majority greater than the one that has shown it to a government. And this is the third unprecedented element of the days we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. The President has the floor, Mr Alexis Tsipras, for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with particular attention to the speeches of the parties' leaders, particularly the Chief of Staff, who was initially asked why we had this debate in this House during the tough negotiation. He is the same person who until yesterday accused us of not daring to bring the debate to the House on developments in the negotiation process and the extension of the loan contract. It is true, of course, that he is absolutely right. Confessionally he told us that he would never have chosen to have a debate in the House. Indeed, as long as he was Prime Minister, he did not get too much fun in Parliament. He preferred to make statements at the building and at the café of the House, rather than come here and confront the opposition. But we will not follow this example. We will be here, openly, to the Members of Parliament and to the Greek people. Mostly because we have nothing to hide. Mostly because if we have a single weapon in this critical and honest effort, which we are doing, to get the country out of this deadlock that you have led, with your options for five years now. This weapon is the trust of the Greek people, it is the sincerity to the Greek people. It is the support that the Greek people give us in this difficult effort. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And that is why we will be here at the critical times of the negotiation to speak truths. But I heard you, Mr. Chief of Representation, defending your partner. I didn't name him. You named him Mr. Papastaurou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u174	After you testified the Practical!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u175	And, of course, it honors you to defend him. He was your partner. It certainly did not honour you that you provided him immunity while you were in the government and was your partner, the Prime Minister, in the checks of the ILO. But you said 'I wish the country had another ten Papastavrous'. He doesn't have ten more, Mr. Samaras. Two more thousand sixty-two has and is on the Lagard list, and one by one will be checked. It's over and over! One by one! Everyone will be checked! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Immunity to your partner: moral right. But I did not hear you say anything about the immunity you provided - and you continue, it seems, because you did not say a word - in the oligarchy of this place. I have not heard you say a word about the government's intention to bring about something which was supposedly a Memorandum of Understanding, of what is not implemented. As regards the resolution on the process of permanent and not temporary broadcasting permits, I have not heard you agree with that. Tell us. Do you agree? Do you support this effort?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u176	Obviously, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u177	I heard Mr. Theodorakis and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u178	Obviously, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u179	And I am glad that a wider support is being formed for something that also concerns the sense of law of Greek society, of Greek citizens. But I have not heard you say anything about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u180	Obviously we agree, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u181	You agree. And why five years now, Mr Samaras, did you not ask for the fees, 2%, which were obliged to pay the channels and have accumulated EUR 40 million? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm not talking about licenses. I'm talking about the ends. Why? Obviously because you were not the support of the people who are ours. You were the only force you could support the media. We are not interested in having this support. We prefer to have the support of the Greek people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But you talked about the account coming up. Can I talk to you about another account that's been up for five years now? In five years of memorandum we had a 25% loss of Gross Domestic Product. Unemployment at 30% and 60% in young people. The public debt from 124% of GDP to 180% of GDP. One hundred and eighty thousand young scientists, mostly immigrants abroad. Over a million unemployed as a whole. Three and a half million poor people. This is the real account that has been uploaded for five years now, Mr Samaras and ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition today and until yesterday in charge of this policy. But I heard you say that we make enemies abroad while you make friends. Even your good friend, Mr. Juncker, while you were, had not admitted that the country was suffering from a humanitarian crisis. You have never raised a question of humanitarian crisis. You raised a question of success, that everything is going well, that we are going to a success scenario. Your good friend, Mr Samaras, never while you were in the government, in the post of Prime Minister, said that he would drain the funds in order to bring 2 billion euros in 2015, i.e. in the next eight months, to deal with the social crisis in Greece. Is that a so-called negotiation? Is that a "free cheek" thing you're telling us about? You've never been able to do this. But I want to talk a little bit about the truck. You told us that you left, it says, a surplus, which you shared as a social dividend, and that was your great contribution to tackling the humanitarian crisis. Let's see exactly what you left. The numbers are relentless. Apart from leaving a surplus, but less than EUR 2.7 billion from what you said you left us, you left a cash deficit of 12.5 billion and a growth that you predicted would be 2.4%, but it was 0.4%. And if one compares that growth was in deflation, in fact it was not growth. It's not development yet. And, of course, what else did you leave leaving? Prolongation for just two months of a list of memoranda of tough austerity measures which would lead to zero supplementary pensions in two years, a reduction of 90%, practically zero, which would lead the main pensions to a reduction of every quarter of 5% -7%, because this means a zero deficit clause. It is the zero deficit clause that we immediately suspended once we set foot on the government-owned thugs. And you keep saying that to the memorial? What else did you leave? A list that provided for a reduction of one-off to one-fifth of what is today, an increase in value added tax on medicines, food, tourism, to the only part of the Greek economy that had a development perspective. What else did you leave? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I'm watching you discuss and I'm interrupting to watch me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u182	You're saying incredible things! I'm not losing a word!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u183	It's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u184	He's the biggest liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u185	What else did you leave behind? You left behind commitments to further dismantle labour relations and collective redundancies. Who really wants this in a damaged labour market, in a labour market where the problem is that we are not employed and we have unemployment huge, unprecedented unemployment for European data? The measure you were about to sign was the collective redundancies over fifty. Who really wants that? What employers' organization is asking for this? Which employer asks for this? Are some people ashamed to say it out loud? But maybe they were the ones planning redundancies in the banking sector -- the banks -- and they asked for it. However, no one is asking publicly for this measure of collective redundancies. So here's what our red lines are, Mr. Samara. And here I am asking you directly: do you share these red lines? I didn't understand your confusion. You say "on the rocks" on the one hand, "memorandum sign" on the other. And rocks and memorial cannot be done! You're telling us: either a break or a fucking bump. There's no other perspective for the place for you, because maybe your mind was like this, and that's why you chose the spectacular asshole. It's not like that for us! For us there is a plan of substantial, honest, decisive negotiation for the country to succeed in achieving the people. And what do you do when we make difficult this hard work? Sit down and wait for us to fail. Carthics. It does not honor you or your prolongation, and certainly it does not give any prospect at the place that the Civic Opposition has such an attitude. That's why we invite you to take a certain position. What exactly are you suggesting? So are you suggesting that we accept what you were ready to accept before the elections? We are therefore not going to accept that! These are our red lines and we ask you to adopt them. To make the national red lines in this tough negotiation for our country and our people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I certainly did not expect you to give credit for our efforts. But I waited for you to recognize the obvious. Did we create the financial gap in the country? In the fifty-sixty days when we were government, did we create it? There's no bigger lie, bigger than what was said about the success story, that you were supposed to take the country out of the memorandum. You would have removed the country from the memorandum with a surplus of 0.3%, while you had an obligation of 1.5%. You would have pulled the country out of the memorandum with stagnation and not growth. You would take the country out of the memorandum with a financial gap within 2015 of 26 billion, minus 562 of the primary surplus of 25.5 billion. You were gonna get the country out of the memorandum! You said that. You were supposed to take us to the credit line. You said it once. And once you've said, two or three units of spreads were up and you've had to retreat to SYRIZA. It was SYRIZA's fault because it was opposition and he said we can't move on like this. So there is no bigger lie than that. What, though, is the difference in what we are dealing with and in what you were dealing with and judging by the Greek people? The difference is that when you were in 2012 at a critical turning point, then the banks were given the opportunity for you to issue Greek state-owned bills and the limit to go up by 3 billion euros in order to be able to finance the debt. We are not given this opportunity. It sets strict limits and restrictions for the European Central Bank. Why? You're wondering, why? When we pay within 2015 the country's obligations, we have paid EUR 6.8 billion without having collected a single euro in 2013, and you received only 33 billion from the EFSF and had only to pay 12. The rest? The rest of you have given them to cover the budget deficits and that is why they have remained uncovered in 2015. You're going to tell me: didn't you know these budgetary figures? Of course we knew. Of course we were aware of it, which is why we said that the country could have a prospect of progress not if it was forced into a new memorandum and a new loan - and we are now saying it - which is why we have boldly demanded, boldly, with a decisive programme - bridge for all four months until June. In June, we do not claim and do not discuss - to end this debate, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition - a new memorandum. This is also a stable red line. We invite you to adopt it as a national red line. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But we want a new development agreement, a new agreement which can only contain the necessary restructuring of the debt, because no country, when it has a debt of 180% of its GDP, cannot safely come out of the market, and that is the bitter truth. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me - I will not go far, Madam President - to give two answers to the crucial issue that you have raised to us, and it is about why we are not bringing the extension of the loan contract to Parliament for ratification. The country has not made any international commitment and no new commitment to its lenders, much more so since by the agreement of 20 February the lenders accepted a reduction in the primary surplus target for 2015 and undertook to open the debate in June and on the debt issue. In this context, I have never demanded the ratification of the extension of the loan contract to the Greek Parliament. However, if creditors do not ask for it, I wonder why the opposition is calling for it, an opposition which, as far as the government was concerned, did not even bring the final contract, either the first or the second memorandum to be ratified, brought only their preliminary draft for approval and not the final contracts to be ratified. Why are you asking us to bring us to ratify the extension of the previous one? In fact, we are talking about an Opposition which, as far as the government was concerned, was the first act it did - if I remember correctly - was the extrajudicial compromise with Siemens. And even though the contract itself with the company required the ratification of the contract by the House, you did not bring it to ratification. What's got into you now? Why is the pain catching you now? What kind of hypocrisy is that? Did the pain of the democratic function of Parliament get you? It's really a suspect, something else you'll have in mind. To close this issue once and for all: no new loan contract has been signed, much more than a new memorandum. Such signatures are your privilege and your choices, not ours. The signature of the extension of the loan contract was accompanied by a text of the Minister of Finance submitted to the Eurogroup, mainly made public, as will be made public and every text of our proposals, as every political initiative in the negotiation that is taking place will be known. Everything on the table, so that the Greek people know at all times what we are doing, what we are achieving, what we are trying and, above all, knowing for the benefit of what we are doing. So don't do terrible and terrible revelations about things that are known and erected online. Of course, when we manage to reach a substantial agreement, in an agreement on evolution, what we call an agreement on growth and, of course, to the extent that it is also an agreement that we expect, not harmful to the country, but to push forward, in the country, to include debt restructuring, then yes, the new agreement, in accordance with everything provided for in the Constitution, will be ratified by Parliament. We promise that we will not continue the legal patents of the adoption of draft conventions which are not finally ratified by Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the end - and I will close with that - of talking about the loan. They put it, if I'm not mistaken, not Mr. Samaras, but Mr. Theodorakis and others. Others even had courage. Not once was officially heard in Berlin, not generally here in the House. The Minister for Foreign Affairs put it on his first visit. I put it in private and in public. But you told us that this report is harmful to the country. Silence is profitable for the country all these years! "The reference to the issue is harmful" - says - 'because it raises a question of morality and not material restoration', because I said, above all, morality is that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At the private meeting with Mrs Merkel, I promised her that I would give her a gift, Manolis Glezou's book entitled "And a brand." I will make it to you too to understand that it is of greater value to put the moral dimension of matters with dignity in order to have the courage and the ability to make use of material.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Let me inform the House that the Committee on the Claim of German debts meets tomorrow. The Chief of Staff, Mr. Antonis Samaras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u187	I congratulate you, Mr Tsipras. You've come back tonight to the role that goes with you, the Chief of Officer's Response. You have completed your question against the New Democracy, but the question that all colleagues have on the lips is 'Why did you bring us here', 'what you wanted to tell us today'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u188	For the House to teach you, she doesn't know you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u189	You're just asking for our consent, insulting us? You say 'all in light', do you, the'superior' government, and here we are completely in the dark about these measures? What are the measures you bring everything to light? Are you negotiating and asking for our opinion, condemning us for yesterday, without asking for our opinion about what you are doing today? But wasn't that the point? Didn't that send us as an invitation for today's day, Madam President? Does the whole of Europe not listen to us today? You're asking for a consensus, and what did you bring here? Listen, let's cut it off, finally. Aren't you finally bringing us the measures you have, judge them, Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u190	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u191	Everything else is about talking. Do you have any measures to tell us? Do you have any specific suggestions? Are they costly? Have you checked them fully? When you take them to Eurogroup tomorrow, will they know your opinion fully, to judge it? You're taking us to sign something that's not called a Memorandum. It's called a memorial, and the little kids know it. Court of Justice of Luxembourg has in it. Do you remember that? English law is inside. Do you remember that? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the New Republic hits the warning bell.]] The President of the House, who quickly rings the bell always to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u192	It's automatic, Mr. Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u193	I'm sure it's automatic. It has nothing to do with you, it's certain! The President of Parliament said here in this House that it would be a national betrayal of anyone having Luxembourg's courts and English law and that they would be traitors. What happened? Were you traitors for the President of Parliament? Do you have another point of view? Didn't he say so? Isn't that the memorial? What do you call it? Call it whatever you want. The same text, isn't it? But let's go someplace else. Investments, you want? Do you care? You're talking about recession. In February and March - I told you - you have already made a payment stop. I told you about heating, hospitals, EEAS, child benefits. And, of course, you, "the Prime Minister of truth and light", talk! Is that what you told the world in the election? I will tell you that the Pan-European Economic Climate Index has just been announced today. The whole of Europe goes up and only Greece goes down, when last autumn it was just opposite. Indeed, in October and November Greece went faster, more positively, than the rest of Europe, and today we are plunging down. Let go, though. You don't have the question of economics. You better stay out of it, because you're talking a life around the numbers, incredible airplanes. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] But let's go to something else. Did you say that we would agree to cut 90% supplementary pensions? Reductions in wages and pensions we did not accept, which is why the last negotiation was not concluded. 90% I don't understand. In some cases it would be 8% and there were other ancillary funds, where supplementary pensions would go up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u194	Madam President, may I speak as Minister after that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u195	Watch out, do not lead things to asking you what we did not do to them. Be careful, don't take it there. You then talk about complexion, about mistresses, oligarchs, corruption, etc. Look who's been behind you for election and post-election, Mr. Tsipras. The entire lobby of drachma, the Fotopoulous of all Greece. If one of our Minister had done what Karugalos did, would the media treat him with this tolerance? And do you have the nerve to talk about fewer people?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u196	For the others, tell us! Tell us about the complication!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u197	As President, make a recommendation that the speaker should not be interrupted!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Yakumato, I should normally recommend to Mr. Samaras why he is insulting. Therefore, do not interfere. If a recommendation had to be made, it had to be made to Mr. Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u199	You're offended because you're not making an observation. But you did the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u200	I don't do anyone. Don't interrupt, because you're interrupting your party leader.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u201	Really, how do you feel about all of you, who are asking for wage increases, the fact that a minister was always taking you 12% of the wages of those he was going to hire? Protection with the minister's unmistakable and his associates, right? Bright left morale! It is something that does not allow you to talk about the ethics of the Left. Then you said that secret diplomacy and personal strategies do not exist in you. Is the Kammenos statements your position? I ask: is this your position? The trip to Tehran your relative is expressing the entire government? Is that your place? I forgot to congratulate you on something else, Mr Tsipras. Full support from the representative of the Golden Dawn! Not even the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman against Samara was! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If I were you, I wouldn’t feel very comfortable unless the shocks, in fact, are not random.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u202	You talked about Mr. Juncker. I don't understand. I put and downgraded the country by three grades? My closest friend abroad, indeed, was Mr. Juncker, but you said it backwards. It is something you have said, that he mainly gives the battle for Greece, helping the government. Imagine what you would say against Juncker, if it were true that Juncker brought any stumbling, any obstacle to the proceedings. He is the man who loves Greece more than anyone else in Europe. That's where you found a hit? Do you think it's yours? It is our work from the NSRF 2007-2014. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] However, the problem I put to you at the outset and for which you had no answer, remains. Where will the money that this country needs be found? For the next year and a half, Mr Tsipras, it is EUR 36 billion. In the meantime, unemployment has risen when between November 2013 and November 2014 there have been 50 thousand fewer people unemployed. I'm not saying that the thing was solved - to God - but there was direction, there was the torque, there was the trend. And today is exactly the opposite. So you did not understand - obviously - what I told you or do not understand. I'm telling you: wake up because we're ruined. But you brought us here today not to inform us but to hear from your left wing. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] That's the big problem. On the one hand you cannot rule and on the other hand you are acting as if you were negotiating, while the country is drowning in deadlocks that you yourself have made. Greece cannot wait to solve your internal problem. At last, go ahead. We first say homeland, after the party, Mr. Tsipras. To conclude, Madam President, since I have told you about sexism, I should like to remind you of something. Plutarch at the "Women's Aretai" writes that manhood is a virtue both of men and women. So don't get so easily misunderstood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u203	It is also the duty of the Bureau to guarantee the freedom of expression of all Members. Many times the Bureau's task has been tested, especially when personal attacks, open and slandering are chosen. [[Noise - Protests from the New Democracy Wing]] I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Katrugalo on staff, so that he can be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u204	What will Mr. Katrugalos talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u205	You, bookshop, sell books!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u206	I'll sell what I want, journalist!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Georgiadis, you're probably upset by the Prime Minister's reports on the Lagard list. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u208	Not only where it suits you, Madam President! He doesn't have the right to speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u209	Are you all right? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u210	I won't let you and it's the last time! I, you know - I said it - I don't like what...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u211	Are you addressing the Bureau as threatening? Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u212	I'm not sitting down! I won't allow you! You have no right to say your opinion after every speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u213	What kind of Bureau is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u214	President of Parliament, you are President of all the Members. You're not the President of Parliament for SYRIZA. You understand that and I'm telling you for the last time! Last time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u215	Sit down and don't threaten the Bureau!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u216	Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure sets you some obligations. Read Article 11!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u217	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u218	Is that a Bureau now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u219	What role do you play, Madam President? Unless that's on the schedule for retiring!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Majmarakis, when you were presiding, did you allow what you were doing to happen? Please sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u221	How does he take the floor? Based on what article is Mr Katrugalos taking the floor? He's not even a MP!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u222	He has the floor for a colleague of yours, a member of the government, on staff. Sit down. What you're doing is anti-parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u223	You mustn't fire oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u224	Have I already given the floor to Mr. Katrugalo?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u225	What did you give him the floor, ma'am? What did you give him the floor? He's not a congressman! Based on what article?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u226	He's not a congressman!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u227	By what article does it take the floor? He's not even a MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u228	He's a minister, gentlemen. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u229	Based on what article? Where's 43A?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u230	I see for a consensual mood you're doing well anyway! Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u231	Madam President, we are going to leave - I personally leave - as a sign of protest!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u232	No, the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, allow for staff and the members of the government, not only to the Members of Parliament! The Rules are clear. When one is slandered, one must have the right to answer. The Rules of Procedure are clear. Members of the Government may also speak on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u233	What I'm telling you. If he takes the floor, Mr Samaras, we will leave!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u234	First of all, the 'what I am saying' which you are addressing - I do not know where - to address it outside this Chamber. Secondly, a man has been offended and has the right to restore reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u235	Maymarakis gave Samaras a line!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u236	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u237	Madam President, it is a manifestation of the political ethos of the New Democracy party that it considered it self-evident that it could make slanderous accusations against a member of the government without having this right to reply. It is clear that this is contrary not only to the Rules of Procedure which allows the members of the Government to be placed on staff but also to our own legal culture that holds on all people who are accused, the right to defend themselves, much more when it is in the face of constructed accusations, which the graves of the interlocutory have built not to affect my own insignificantness, but what is the main advantage of the government, which is its moral superiority towards the forces of old-fashioned and interlocutory. And it is so great that the political void of the Officerial Repression, forced by her Chief to resort precisely to the damaged lies and slanders, which even their originals themselves do not repeat. Because it is clear that the claim for supply, with 12%, was rejected for appointment. It is clear that this category, when it was evident that it cannot be supported, was constantly transformed into something else, something else and something else, so that mud and dirt remain and there is no possibility of answering. But I told you, before - and I told the Members of the New Democracy - that they may be wolves but I am not a sheep and they have chosen the wrong target for their attacks. I have always been clean, crystallised and my political action and legal action. And I've done nothing more than Spollus always said that the constitutionalist should do, that is, not just the mystery of the law, but also his soldier. The carpets have an appointment with me in June in the courts, and unfortunately I see that they are also getting their message from the MPs. It seems that the complexity is concerned and not only those whose financial interests are at risk but also those who politically defend their interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Catrugale. And because within the crys of the Officerial Representation, it has been repeated that he is allegedly not entitled to the word of the government, and because sometimes such inaccuracies are reproduced instead of truth, I read what Rule 68 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. ‘Personal matters shall be considered to be the reproach containing abusive manifestation individually against a Member or a Member of the Government’. This is to end with the falsification of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Solana has been asked for the floor as Minister. Of course, Mr. Army, sit down in the parliamentary seats.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u239	I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u240	Madam President, I have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure and that goes before it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u241	It doesn't lead, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u242	The Rules of Procedure precede all matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u243	It doesn't lead. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u244	Now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u245	The way you all learned, 'now', 'what I'm saying to you'? What's that way? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'll give you the floor. Do you want to leave, too? Mr. Army has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u246	Don't break the Rules of Procedure anymore. On the Rules of Procedure, my request takes precedence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u247	Listen to the Rules of Procedure under Rule 67, you must bring in a document signed by two Members. You've brought a document that you've signed on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u248	You've been unrelated for the second time! The President of the Parliamentary Group is asking for the floor and for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u249	I'm telling you, I'll give you the floor. We don't have a case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u250	You're up to date again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u251	I'm telling you, I'll give you the floor. Who are you rebelling against?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u252	I revolt against your behavior, your ignorance and your arrogance!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u253	I'll give you the floor then. I have already given the Minister the floor. Here you go, Mr. Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u254	You are undermining the debate in this House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause from SYRIZA Wing]] I just wanted to make a clarification, as the Minister responsible, about the Greek Parliament and about the Greek people who sees us and listens to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u256	Does the Rules of Procedure provide for this procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u257	I'm on it. I know why he does not want to hear what Mr Venizelos is going to say, but I will say it as the Minister responsible. I want to clarify that. If our Government were to apply the zero deficit clause to supplementary pensions, it would be removed from the pockets of pensioners EUR 326 million this year, in addition to EUR 326 other EUR 172 million per year and in addition to EUR 326 and EUR 172 other EUR 261 million in 2017. They'd literally vaporize. Secondly, if we applied the new mathematical formula for the one-off benefits introduced by the previous government, it would be removed this year, from those who would receive the pension, EUR 70 plus EUR 50 million, in addition to those of EUR 201 million in 2016 and also from both of these EUR 172 million in 2017. Finally, Madam President, if we were to apply the stricter terms and conditions for granting the ESA to pensioners, the poorest pensioners, the lowest pensioners, would be deducted from their pockets this year. All of this is written in the 2015 state budget that was adopted here in Parliament, the previous government of Samaras - Venizelos and the medium-term programme, which is running and which they have voted for. This, in order to know the truth and what the Greek people and pensioners saved from their pockets with the decision of our Government, which would be removed, if they were re-elected and if the previous government were ratified. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u259	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u260	Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u261	Hey, how's it going to be now, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u262	The President of the Golden Dawn has asked for the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u263	We're the third force!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u264	Madam President, I am really sorry that there is no sitting in Parliament on any matter, particularly on the most serious issue of negotiation, which is not to be undermined by violations of the Rules of Procedure, with a sharp stirring up of tension. " A few minutes ago, you clashed with the President of the New Democracy and led the Civic Opposition to leave. This fact in itself is a problem of the application of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. A few minutes ago, you gave Mr Katrugalos the floor on staff, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, because, in the case of reproach, the person concerned, if there is a question, answers at the end of the debate and, in any case, before the end of the sitting but does not interfere with the flow of the procedure. If he is given an opinion other than that which he has put forward in this debate, he shall take the floor immediately. Thirdly, while this procedure under Rule 142a is special, excellent and only the Prime Minister and the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups participate and the Ministers are not involved, you gave the floor to Mr. Army to assist the Prime Minister, to complete it, and he could give him a note to say so to Mr. Tsipras in his planned tritology. What's the point? The point you need to realise as a sense of institutional role. If we really are to deal with the major national issues and reach consensus, should there not be a procedural shell that protects consensus? That is not the intention of the Prime Minister. It was figurative and pretextful of this argument. But you, as President of Parliament, had to give the House the opportunity to discuss seriously, calmly, soberly and consensually. At the moment, Parliament has suffered another blow. Firstly, while the negotiation is taking place, it is assumed, in Brussels, and there is a national interest and, above all, an interest and interest in the government. So there is a violation of the Rules of Procedure on the types of people and on the substance of them. Secondly, I think you have the ability and memory of not going to fall on the ballot for the third time and say that when the President of a Parliamentary Group asks for his floor on the Rules of Procedure, he needs a document with two signatures. An oral document may also be requested without a document. I sent it so I wouldn't argue, I sent it to read it, so we don't have any tensions. Because we must be interested in the substance. But of course nothing in a democracy is more important and more essential than the process and the institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u265	Mr Venizelos, you are absolutely right, I violated the Rules of Procedure, because I gave you the floor, and I also violated the Rules of Procedure, because I allowed you to speak on more than four times the time granted by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u266	You are worthy of your destiny! Put your hands up!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u267	I would like to make it clear that there are no misunderstandings: in accordance with Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure, the person invoked to the detriment of the matter, he asks the President to be allowed to speak. Listen to it, Mr. Venizelo, so you know it. This request cannot be submitted before the statement made in response to a personal request and, of course, not the sitting. So the speech which gave the floor was the speech by Mr Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u268	Read below!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u269	In connection with the procedure referred to in Article 142a.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u270	You're falsifying the procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u271	... I shall read to you what Article 142a(8) provides for, where the Ministers expressly provide for a period of speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u272	Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u273	The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliakos, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I took part in this debate I read 142A, which also provides for ministers and parliamentary representatives to take the floor in particular. The booklet is at everyone's disposal and it says it very clearly. I would like to remind you that, on the occasion of the turbulence which has taken place previously, the Golden Dawn has been accused of abolishing political life and much more. It seems that when others do far worse things, then political life is not poured out. The President of the New Democracy said earlier that he had full support from the representative of the Golden Dawn, the government of SYRIZA and ANEL. No falseer! I would remind you - before I mention whether this support exists - that in the Baltaku era, when in this House, the New Democracy wanted to pass a law on teachers in Thrace and the PASOK did not agree, it disagreed. And the votes of the Golden Dawn and the Independent Greeks passed the bill. We have been asked for this, we have decided that it is nationally appropriate and we have voted for it. On the contrary, we have never voted for any bill of SYRIZA and even under such procedures. I didn't express any support. I expressed the view that the SYRIZA Government is in power to denounce, abolish the memorandum, reinstate national sovereignty in the country, stop this slave loan agreement with English law, and reserve for the not distant future, according to the Prime Minister's own announcements. You said earlier that your mission is the freedom of expression of all Members. I'll disagree. Today, three Members of the Golden Dawn are absent from their will because they are convicted. They have applied for this, which has not been approved. In this respect, I would like to say that there is a violation of the hard core of individual and civil rights, because as the citizen has the right to vote, so the MP, elected by the people as a representative of the nation, has the right to legislate and participate in the legislative work. This thing isn't happening. In view of this, I would like to tell you that the Penal Code itself provides for the protection of the political rights of detainees and the political right of detainees, it is for them to come to Parliament, vote on votes and take part in the proceedings. As far as the subject of today's debate is concerned, unfortunately, about all the stuff that was written in the newspaper 'AGEY' and which were costed on various websites, such as 'Bloomberg', there was no specific debate. I just want to mention for information the Greek people of one of them and to present our position, the position of the Golden Dawn. Reclassification of VAT rates. In order to make it disastrous for a critical sector of our national economy, tourism, to increase VAT in the islands, as mentioned, or in some of the islands, as has been written in the press. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the increase in indirect taxes, such as cigarettes, etc., is a cruel, unfair, anti-grassroots tax, which affects the same rich and poor, and that is why the government should consider this. We also read about the creation of a Development Bank or an Investment Fund for financing small and medium-sized enterprises. Indeed, this is what Greece, a national bank, needs to be a state. Only then can there be money for the Greek economy. In fact, we read with great reservation - it was published in 'AUGH' today - for deprivation with transnational synergies. The Golden Dawn is contrary to any privatization of sectors of our economy that have to do with national independence, such as energy, PPC, etc. I conclude by replying again to the President of the New Democracy, who said that for him who is against the memorandum, he supports SYRIZA. He's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u275	Thank you. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that once again the President of the Parliament of the Greeks is inferior to the circumstances. I understand that Mr. Tsipras has too much on his head, I sympathize with him, but he should somehow end this. In other words, we cannot come here and discuss the process of breaking up from Mrs Constantopoulou's exaggeration at any time. I would remind you of the roll-call vote which he did not make after - correct - recommendations from the Prime Minister's office. It is not possible for the President of Parliament to score speakers. It is not the case in any Parliament. If she wants to have an opposite view and go down to the chairs to tell her but she cannot score speakers, even if her observations on many things may have to do with reality. He's a president of the House. It doesn't score. I do not understand, of course, that the ministers can also speak in a debate of the parties' Heads of State or Government. And why did they take him two and not take another ten who want to talk? We shall either respect the logic and the Rules of Procedure or go to a Presidency entirely personal with the signature of Mrs Constantopoulou. Now, I would ask the President of the Government, not to compare it with the past and not to be too anxious to respond in the past. I would invite him to speak more about the future and his own "tampers" i.e., and not about what he did or did not do PASOK and the New Democracy. We should take into account - and get out of this stress - that the Greek people have decided. He said that the old political system went bankrupt and that we should change direction. So, because that is exactly the Greek people's message, we must give answers, Mr Tsipras, in relation to the great picture, to give us the answers in relation to the great picture. We supported you in Europe. Potami is a European movement. Some people consider this and comment on it as negative. But you realise that it is useful at this time to have a European movement in the House. And you know we supported you. We spoke positively of your efforts and heard from both Mr Schultz and other people who listen to us in Europe. We have said clearly - and we do not have to say this here too - that we need to help a Prime Minister to make reforms that have not taken place for so many years. But I think the lies are over. I mean the lies about the economy. So I call on you - so that I do not break too much time - to make public what your people, your group, are negotiating in Europe. [[At this point the closing bell of the party president's speaking time is ringing The Potami]] Allow me, wait a minute. I therefore urge you to make the content of the reforms public, not accounting measures, not identifications. Some of them are necessary, some of them - perhaps expectations - are unrealistic. I call on you to say in particular, if not today, that you will not have the time, in the coming days, in the concrete reforms and on these specific reforms to ask for the support of the Greek Parliament. I said it and repeat it. This Parliament may have a large European majority, as long as you too are determined to collide with those who want the country to continue talking about the past and not leap to the future, as a large part of Europe does at this moment, rather all of Europe, with Greece still taking a note of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u278	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u279	The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction has the floor, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u280	I am very sorry, but because you have reiterated, I am obliged to say that the President of this House today was absolutely clear and clearly based on the article on which today's debate is being held to give his explanations. Economically it is also allowed to Ministers, if necessary, intervene. It's clear the article and it mentions it in it. It would also be very unfair for each of us, when, in his first speech and in his second speech, the Chief of Police Vice-President has referred to - in the way he referred - to a government minister who - we say - has been fully targeted in the public space for ten days, he has not been speaking. It is perfectly reasonable that he was given the floor on staff. And that must be quite clear. I do not know exactly what led to a withdrawal and we are not pleased that this debate is ending. However, with regard to these issues which have been raised today, I believe that the President of the Parliament has in principle expressed and applied the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u281	They have their own. Mr. Meimarakis wanted to show the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr. Voutsi. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u283	It's been a couple of hours in here today. You have not lit us, at least - I think you have not lit the Greek people - ladies and gentlemen of the government, Prime Minister, basically about what you are going to do for the negotiation, what exactly you have done so far and all the other issues that we have raised as well. On the other hand, we have witnessed a well-known bipartial dispute in a new version - from the old ones - and this is a new composition of Parliament, of course also on your side with verbal attacks on Acoustic Anti-Civilisation and on the Civic Anti-Civilisation, with handling of the Rules of Procedure and others, so that - and we are frankly saying so - you can hide the essential agreement on the roads of this negotiation, on the four-month agreement - a bridge, which is an extension of the existing memorandum that had been voted on in the previous coup d'état. And, of course, there is the fact that your refusal is today to be an essential debate in this House, that all Members of Parliament speak and have a roll-call vote so that the Greek people know what exactly each of us is in this Chamber and as a political party each of us collectively and individually. Of course, we believe that this is why you do not bring it, because that is where they would vote for this agreement and for the Members of the Officership and Members of other parties. We clearly tell you that in vain you are trying to hide behind your finger, by changing the names of the memorial, the troika. It does not change the anti-grassroots content, the anti-grassroots character of this agreement you signed and you still refuse to bring it to the House for vote. Those who were delusional about your election slogan, those who thought you would really tear up the memorials, and you will be burdening the duo to dance on the markets, can and must now draw conclusions. I am not talking about the dear ladies and gentlemen of this Chamber, but about the Greek people. The negotiation of your government with lenders is not about satisfying the people's real needs. Your red lines aren't even the elementary one. The recovery of the great losses of the people's family that was afflicting the time of the crisis. You are trying to present your individual differences and objections as to what the debt management mix will be - constraining, expansionary, mixing these two, is not so important - as a major issue, which is supposed to bring automatically and collectively decisions and measures. All of this - give the sorrows - and the Prime Minister and Minister of Government, who are following with so many questions the Greek people today, of course have to do with the very process of changing this mixture and the fact that it is more complicated and complicated today than before, because now Greece is in the eurozone for a number of years. Of course, this attempted, from what we understood, to explain to us in his second language, trying to justify the unjustified ones, since this is the process within the walls of the European Union. The European Central Bank defines the single monetary policy of the Member States, Eurogroup sets out the single financial targets for all Member States and Greece of course. Moreover, Greece is also chained by loans, with large debts, etc. And of course there's no cash. That's the whole story, so we're all honest with each other. That explains what we and what you are hiding, and what you are doing, that everything must have the approval of the Eurogroup and that this approval must be accompanied by specific agreements on the service of the loan, namely a memorandum, no matter what it is called. In vain, then, you are trying to trick workers in the long term with thousands of slogans to end austerity, material measures and so on. The measures that are taken and will be taken to boost capitalist development - because that is what it is said, however much as you say that we use this language and that it is wooden - are to attract investment in monopolistic groups. They are measures that sacrifice the people's needs for the benefit of the profits of the few. The people's layers have paid for the crisis, they will again be invited to pay again. There is no capitalist growth without squeezing out workers, no increase in exploitation, no cheaper labour force, no unemployment, who use it for those who work and drop their cuts down without flexible labour relations. This is what experience in all the Member States of the European Union, the experience of the United States of America, the experience of Japan and an expansionist policy, of which you are the ones. The bourgeoisie and governments of the states of the European Union, Germany, France, Italy, are, of course, negotiating with each other very hard on certain issues, but they are united when they are going to move forward with their anti-grassroots reforms, restructuring to shield the profits and competitiveness of their monopolies. Our people will have to organize their counter-response to the real opponents. There is no other way for our people from preparing for a conflict, for a break with the European Union and with capital and with their power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. Now I am at the forefront of a great dilemma, because I have to reinvent the Rules of Procedure, because Mr Evangelos Venizelos first spoke and did a dentext in exhausting time and dentistry. [[Protests from the ward of PASOK]] I see he wants to talk. I will violate the Rules of Procedure and give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u285	Oh, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u286	Madam President, for the election of the President of Parliament, it is enough for Members to vote. To be cute, something else is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am disturbed by the fact that the Prime Minister, - as a state institution, regardless of who is as a natural person, misleads the House. Because it is a gross misunderstanding of the House that Mr Tsipras' argument does not require ratification of the extension of the main Financial Facility. Why? Why did the partners not ask us to do so? But the partners want each country to implement its Constitution. What the constitution of each country says is judged by the competent state bodies of the country. The main Financial Facility Convention is not a standard loan contract, which is provided for in public accounting, as the Government maintains. This is why the initial main contract was ratified in 2012 by v. Date of birth: 400/2012. As expressly adopted by Parliament, the last two amendments were the extension of up to 28-2-2015. Mr Tsipras says: 'The extension did not go beyond international obligations'. You were taken back the 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund and now you are begging to get the 1.2 billion back? Why did this happen and on what legal basis? Is it a loan contract to return money when you have strong cash needs? Mr Samaras mentioned the English law, which of course also explicitly provides for the jurisdiction of the courts of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. These are typical elements of the contract. The crucial thing is the explicit reference to the memorandum, the evaluations and the troika. Should Members not read the text and express themselves on it? So this is a misunderstanding of the House! Not because Mr. Tsipras is afraid that the opposition will vote, but because he does not want to be in a difficult position in his inner-party relation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of the PASOK is ringing.]] And I saw him in his dentistry annoyed and aggressive. Therefore, it is virtual to call for consensus. How do you ask for a consensus from an Opposition you attack on, which you deceive? I really would like to ask Mr. Tsipras personally does he feel the need to make up for some points, in relation to the argument about the election, his arguments during the opposition period? Does he even want to say something about the debt, that we did good the 2012 interventions, the haircut, the restructuring? Does he want to tell us anything about the difficulties of negotiating now that he lives? Does he have anything to say? Doesn't his perceptions change anything about how and where the country was going? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the President of PASOK is repeatedly ringing at the end of the speech bell by the President of PASOK.]] Prove your elegance with what you are doing now! Does he think that he's embarrassing us when he tells us "will you support in hitting the oligarchy?" I'd love to. We will help you hit those fascinated by your political presence economic operators who have the euro outside and the damage in them and have fought for them! Do you think you are blackmailing or threatening us by saying 'we will initiate the licensing procedure for broadcasting stations'? We'll be afraid of what? Don't we lose the ten-second broadcasters give PASOK a day? They support you and many of you lick! You threaten them and blackmail them! Mr Tsipras referred to German allowances.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u287	How long will it take, Mr. Venizelo?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u288	Be decent. What you're doing with the bomb is a childish reaction to the seat of the President of Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u289	You want to tell us how much time you're going to need? You don't? Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u290	You can let the bell ring. It doesn't bother me. You just don't respect your role and I'm sorry about that. As far as German allowances are concerned, I have explained this to you in the debate that took place on the establishment of the committee, that we have put it against the grain in writing, diplomatically, maintaining the issue open. Unfortunately, Mr Tsipras' statement that the issue is moral and historic is accession to German arguments and will be used by Germany. In cold blood Mr. Tsipras, the Minister of Justice, Mr. Paradiseopoulos, who, in fact, had spoken of granting a licence for enforcement against the German State, because he mocked next to Mrs. Merkel himself the possibility of making decisions against the German public on Greek territory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u291	What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u292	The question I am going to close is always the same, the original one: on what subjects did Mr Tsipras inform us today? What became wiser in Parliament and through this House the Greek people in relation to negotiation, government strategy, line? What is the financial framework? How many and what are the financial needs and how will they be met? What about cash assets? What's the timeline? Mr Tsipras tells us 'Why didn't you agree?' We did not agree, because we were struggling to keep the red lines and said to him "we were weakened by the result of the European elections and by the impending dissolution of the House due to the failure to elect the President of the Republic". This government has a fresh mandate, it is strong. Why did it not continue to negotiate on the substance and waste time on marginal issues and ultimately worsen our situation, and we are crushed with the back of the wall? Our own red lines were not a reduction in wages and pensions, not an opening of insurance, not a collective redundancies, not a change in trade union legislation. You could adopt them and increase them as much as you wanted. But that's not the point. The issue is that, to get into the debate on these reform measures, you must have a framework for budgetary and financial. We have had a framework, we say, that we will meet the needs of the remaining instalments of the European loan, of the remaining IMF loan, with the support of the preventive credit line with the 11 billion earmarked for this purpose and with the protected gradual return to the markets. What's your plan? What needs, how will they be met, when will they be met? And when will debt be raised as a matter? That is, demanding the implementation of what we have achieved in the negotiation and the 2012 agreement. That's the point. And this infamous theory not of a third memorial but of a new "development agreement", how does it specialize? This new June development agreement will have a loan, will it have terms? Will it be voted on by the Bulgarians of the Member States of the Eurozone? But if he has a loan and terms, it's the third memorial, no matter what it's called. Moral lesson: Why did we come here today? We came here today for reasons of SYRIZA's internal-party correlations. Has the conspiracy succeeded? I'll say yes, because it's an easy business. When you're calling for a majority of you to be rallied against each other's rivalry, you can do it. It's an elementary party duty. Is this set-up on what basis? What's the next step? Is it a ruptured casing? I hear everyone comes from a break. Is it a setup for a deal? What kind of deal? Conversion agreement? Split agreement? Honest compromise, Mr. Tsipras says. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the PASOK is being ringed.]] I'll be done in a few seconds. Honestly compromised what does it mean? Does it mean accession to logic, accession to responsibility? Does the honest compromise mean that because we were unable to do anything else, because we broke the framework without an alternative, we stay in the old memorandum by July and go to a new memorandum, under another name, after July? An honest compromise is that your partners tell you "take an effort to get back into normality, markets, get out of the Memorandum, get competitive". And you say "no, thank you, I want to stay dependent on you, I want a loan and another loan, more loan, I want a bigger, prolonged stay in the memorandum, surveillance, the troika, without my aim of returning to normality." This is not an honest compromise. This is absolute discomfort and absolute strategic caging. But isn't that all that simple? I can't believe there's anyone who doesn't understand these obvious things. Why don't we confess to the obvious? The self-defense is revolutionary, Antonio Gramsey said. However, there is nothing more revolutionary than accession to the common sense. You'll tell me the truth, we're the ones in the beam after all, especially when we represent a traditional left bet. I wish it were that simple. Unfortunately, the reality is more persistent and stronger than any symptom.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u293	I'm tempted to commemorate Master Manesi, but I won't. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u294	I knew Gramsey had said, Mr. Venizelo, that the truth is revolutionary. You know, this'self', you otherwise understand it, or the Greek people understand it. You seem to have failed to understand that you will soon say goodbye to the benches, along with Mr Samaras who is already leaving. Today, all Greek women and all Greeks realised that Mr. Samaras is under custody, that the boss changed that his older men showed the door of exit. I have never seen this before, getting a Member of Parliament up and an old MEP - he will remember his youth rather - and he will say to him: 'Go out, go away, leave' and awkward he will do that. Today, however, that is not all we have seen. Today, Prime Minister, you have found two amazing allies. They are doing very well for provokers, both old co-pilots, if anyone within the parliamentary group, indeed, could be concerned. As long as they come here and say that, they'll make it fine. Bravo! That's great! And they know that. Don't think they don't know that. They're not naive. They're old caravans, as the people say. So they have their word. Today, however, we are still aware that the situation is very dangerous, which they want to shape within Parliament. It's not random, what's happening. It's not about the face of Mrs. Constantopoulou. They're not about the President's face. I say that because I believe that. The Ahais sent me to Parliament in 1989. Never, even when PASOK departed and had a frontal collision in the troubled times, there was never this climate. They never spoke to the President in a special way, in this disgraceful way and in these designations. That concerns us all. They are personal characterizations, not political expressions. Are we going to stay silent here? Will we allow them, whenever they come and want to dismantle the meeting? Because they take it as a weakness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, please give me some more time, too, because I would like to refer to what Mr Kammenos said. I cannot fail to underline, ladies and gentlemen, that the situation is serious. This is not the first time, it's the civilization and it's a matter of democracy. It is not a personal matter, nor is it a matter of Mrs Constantopoulou or Mr Katrugalos. Six thousand were PPC's fired contractors. And right, then, in the New Democracy, there was an office, a department of legal protection. It wasn't for free. I'm not blaming anyone. They've become ministers, but they're doing what they don't remember. Prime Minister, when, today, no business is able to approach the bank and ask for 34 or 36 euros, the memorial bearers cannot, a few 24 hours ago, get from the recapitalised banks of 36,000,000. Because some people might say that you didn't know, I'm telling you so you wouldn't once tell us you didn't know. Mr Alfouzos has excessive lending, with damages, where the sworn accountants say: 'or he will put out of his pocket or close his publishing activities'. They're testing with Karugalo today. It's not the Catrugalos thing. As long as you leave them, the next one will come. You saw how their friends reacted here today. And one last. What did Mr. Kammenos say in America? He said, it would be interesting to find another financing line, a possible liquidity facility for the country. Did he go to talk to multinational companies like some virgins with the official government? Did he make a secret deal, report, suspect something? Mr. Theodorakis did not understand. The truth is, Mr. Theodorakis is confusing the numbers a little. He's got his payroll in mind. Mr. Kammenos said 70% would be for the country. Has Mr Samaras returned to his denology, who said that the country's wealth - remember that? - It's European wealth. Did you forget? For AOZ. And he came to say about Kammenos! No one alone can bind the country or sign it. I would, however, like Mr Theodorakis and Mr Venizelos to tell us tomorrow, but also Mr Samaras to disagree. Shouldn't we find other ways? They said, from this step forward, that they disagreed with the Chinese, with the Russians, with the Americans, etc. Eventually, what are these people here? Who do they represent? Do they represent any particular interests and are saddened if the country finds other roads? Aren't we entitled to take advantage of our country's wealth? Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for listening to me, but for Mr Venizelos to be a pediatrician, I cannot tolerate it or listen, on the other hand, to his partner, Mr Samaras, say, 'it goes on and it's over if you do it again...'. So, what are you going to do, Mr. Samara? You said it two, three, four times. You said to stop the "plate" - an expression of a former Prime Minister from this step! - and you finally made the Chamber laugh at you, with what you said, rather than crying, when you addressed the third state player and said, "Hold well, because I'll show you another time." So, what will Mr. Samaras show us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Before giving the Prime Minister the floor for his teratology in order to close the sitting, let me make some announcements to this House. Firstly, the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Foreign Affairs and Finance submitted to the House a draft law entitled ‘Preparation of corrigendum to the Convention for the Verification of Credentials between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Canada through the exchange of financial communications’. It shall be referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament on 23 March 2015, pursuant to articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 3126/2003 concerning the "Criminal Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, criminal case law formed following the 18-8-2014 'Reports - Complaints' and the 5-11-2014 Memories of Charalambos Kalogerakis, Georgiou, Antonios Saridakis, Myron, Ilia - Theocharis Tsikoya of Georgios and Georgios Hermes of Constantine, residents of Rethymno, Crete, concerning all members of the former government for the alleged offence of the last betrayal (Article 134 B.C. and 120 of the Constitution) in the performance of their duties. I am aware that Mr Samaras made some statements outside the House. It would be a good thing if we were to make these statements within Parliament, so that we can all hear them and be able to answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u296	Did he ask for the vote he gave you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u297	I have no special briefings, Mr. Nicolopoulou! Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to express my regret at the fact that a moment ago the Civilian Opposition, perhaps in the absence of arguments, preferred to practice in a procedural gymnastics, in a exercise in procedure, and indeed in an unfair manner, not by the Chief of Staff, but by the order of the former President of Parliament, who I believe has led Mr Samaras and has taken him - because he is obviously aware of the Rules of Procedure - to an unstable action. Neither Mr Samaras nor the former President of the Parliament can know that the Rules of Procedure are clear and enables the Minister of Government to speak on staff and indeed, when he has been accused and has to give some answers. So did this action, which turned a historical party into a student party rather than a party that should have been involved in the act, its presence and its spirit of respecting Parliament, become because they did not know the Rules of Procedure? Did it happen because they cannot tolerate the other view? I can't believe it. This action has been taken for reasons of impression, in order to cover today's debate and its substance, and what we have actually discussed here, by sorting out the procedure. I think that this does not honor the Greek Parliament and does not honor those who attempt to do so, because the Greek people are watching us. He attends the meetings from both the Parliament's channel and the channels that have a live connection. He sees and judges. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to stick to the point today. The point is that we are, indeed, in a critical negotiation with the partners. We are in a negotiation where what is needed is that the positions of all the parties, all the wings of this House, be clearly heard on the crucial issues. I would once again like to repeat that the Greek Government is working intensively so that the Eurogroup decision can be implemented as soon as possible on 20 February. In this negotiations, however, we do not go without'red lines'. In this negotiation, we are not going without having to think that there are limits that we are not entitled to go beyond, because we have a fresh and specific people's mandate and even more stable support from the Greek people, so that the country will be left from this appalling adventure that has been in the last few years. The limits of the people's mandate are 'no other policy', 'no other tough measures of austerity'. I would therefore like to express my unequivocal support for Mr Theodorakis, who has asked for a debate on the substance. I agree, Mr. Theodorakis. Obviously, what you want from me today is in a clear way to rewrite the government's'red lines' in the context of a national effort. Our'red lines' are clear. We are not going to agree on cuts in wages and pensions. We are not going to agree to the implementation of any existing measure. That's our last word. It is a word that is pure and clear in the national Parliament and in front of the Greek people. It leaves us firmly indifferently calling for the release of collective redundancies in a looted labour market, because we intend as soon as possible to restore collective bargaining, as there is a framework for collective agreements in all European countries. We cannot ask Greece to be a European country but not to be governed by the rules of European law, labour law governing all European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to accept an increase in VAT on food and medicines, the legacy that the previous government left us with the infamous e-mail. We are not going to continue not to exploit public property - what has happened in the country in recent years - but the sale of public property and public wealth. Anyone who wants joint ventures with participation and control of the Greek State, who comes to invest money that will have a development perspective in the real economy, will be welcome. It's not, Mr. Theodorakis, one or two faces. You referred to the issue of airports. You said an interesting place not to belong to one. Watch out for what we have here. What we have here is a transfer of ownership titles from the Greek State to the public of other countries. We therefore consider that all these issues need to be reviewed and renegotiated on criteria. The first criterion is the best possible reinforcement of the real economy, with investments that will bear jobs, with investments that will stimulate the development prospects of the economy with the participation of the Greek State. And, of course, something that is extremely critical for us, the revenues from making use of public property do not go to a barrel without the bottom to pay off a debt that is constantly growing but go where the country needs, to the insurance funds and to development, in terms of full compliance with labour law and environmental protection. We, ladies and gentlemen, have these red lines. Let me make it clear that we do not give way to any extortion, no matter how much pressure we accept. That is exactly what I have asked the representatives of the opposition parties today to adopt, support. I ask now, because these are not the red lines of SYRIZA, they are the red lines of the Greek people, of Greece, in a tough negotiation, which we all believe can work. I hear you talk with fine words about Europe many times about the need for a European solution, an agreement and a responsibility, so that the country does not fall on the rocks. In this case, however, I have not specifically heard what you are proposing today. Is it proposed, as you say, that we do not have rocks, that we continue to lean on the rocks and the thorns of a memorandum policy, and that we accept, or do you support, the national effort without halving, without escaping? That is the crucial issue today. And they need clean, sloppy words without spins and escapades. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from what we have seen today that the new has already been born. It is difficult, however, to land, because the old one fights with nails and teeth to hold and wrists to fail the new one, to bend. Don't let us bend. Don't try to fail, because even if we fail, it won't be you who will be able to come back to the surface again. Unfortunately, other forces will come. So write to this national effort. Give strength to the power of the country, a power that is strengthened by the support of Greek society and the people, in order to have the best possible result in this crucial negotiation for the country, for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, the special agenda has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-30-S1-commons.u300	With the consent of the House at 00.58 the sitting on Thursday, April 2, 2015, at 09.30, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
