ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Happy many years to those who celebrate today! [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Resolution of the State Budget for the financial year 2016’. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of my colleagues who have been constantly saying'representations' in this budget debate since 2004. I do not hide it from you that especially for this year, there was a confusing view of what I could personally refer to, which shows in advance that to a very large extent it is not just a predetermined one, but leaves no room for any real derogation. The average Greek citizen has been following developments since the beginning of this year, which to a very large extent give rise to questions: twice a national election, a referendum, a national economy or a real picture of the market with too many issues and with very many questions, banks even today, virtually closed, capital controls and, more generally, a situation which does not promise anyone at all even minimal optimism. It is a budget, whose debate - I repeat - creates no sense of optimism not only among us that we are discussing, but much more about all the Greek citizens and the Greek society who are likely to monitor this debate and this process. I said years ago that budgets, unfortunately, are not an essential debate to change the data in relation to how the state works, in relation to how the state works. And I fear that even today, at a time of particular, special, conditions, we actually have a repetition of an old evil phenomenon. We have a repetition, essentially, of a process of copying needs and expenses, without seeing that reality dictates a completely different logic and a completely different initiative from the government. The government over this whole period, instead of actually taking responsibility and being able in a very specific way to deal with the continuing economic crisis in the country, all it is trying to do is to shift responsibility, saying that for what you live today - and of course it is about Greek citizens - the former are responsible. The difference is, ladies and gentlemen, that each government has its own role, but much more and its own responsibility, towards the way it works in Greek society. Because our political system is well aware that, beyond all others, it has a pedagogical approach to society and to this effort or - if you like - to this responsibility, there is a serious failure on the part of the government. This failure is not only due to the wrong choices, but also to the examples of anticipated officials, people who are currently serving with a particular role of the government and who show very clearly that, unfortunately, no matter how much they try to shift responsibilities from one to another - as they want to say - the reality is a completely different one - I would say, a completely different record in relation to what it is trying to do. For Ministers, who forget to say in their "subjects" whether to declare real estate or to declare shares or ministers who, on the other hand, are invoking previous ones because they did not comply in the way the memorandum should, obviously not only show the right path in society, but show that we are in the repetition of a bad reality about the political and the same political system. And no matter how long it has been attempting to reach a consensus, I think we all agree that there can be no consensus. A conspiracy shared on specific issues on the one hand or on the other, when necessary, to discover it, obviously cannot have any effect at all. I am one of those who believed that the political system had to be consulted in a previous year. And the parties, the political parties, had a lot of opportunities earlier and to come up with a firm political message to society, to show the way and finally to be able to support our country and future generations in a really very difficult effort. And no matter how much you, ladies and gentlemen - particularly the SYRIZA - have seen in July that there is a different reality, I am sorry to say it, but that was not a good lesson, which gave you the opportunity to change immediately afterwards. Finally, I will tell you that, with this ongoing legislative initiative, either measures or repetitions, prerequisites, etc., all that we are called upon to vote on every week, there is a given, which does not give rise to any optimism and the fact that it concerns the real economy. I will not be tired of repeating something which, unfortunately, I am sorry to say to the honourable and honourable Ministers, is a serious omission of the choices made by this government. Where is wealth produced, ladies and gentlemen, in the country? Are we ever going to answer it in a very specific way? That specific answer you know who it is. From entrepreneurship and the private sector. As long as the private sector and entrepreneurship are not reinforced by specific political initiatives by the current government, so much increases the risk that our economy will effectively stop operating in a minimum period of time. That is why, because it is a time when we must also see the truth and face it, I think that another time is the time when the government has to take responsibility for a process that is effective, it shows that in a short time we will have very negative developments, which we all want - and I hope - to avoid. I think it is the duty that all of us have to do with the country, but also with the future generations. Of course, it is not possible to vote in favour of this budget through such a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Screkas is not here, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u5	Yes, he's not here. Mr. Savvas Anastasiades has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on next year's budget, 2016, reflects the reality and in acts about what really left-wing governance means. After the whole of the previous period, the people's vote has been indifferent to a mass of lies, after the small growth that occurred in 2014 was even interrupted, having been driven three times into elections in a year, today co-government is coming and asks us to consent to this catastrophic policy, because only as a catastrophic one can characterise this policy, as reflected in next year's budget. And I don't need to tell you what your attitude has been all over the past few years in similar cases. These are well-known and said. But are you asking us to consent to what? You are asking for a text in which to agree that we should not accept, we should not go to wage and pension reductions when these reductions have been reflected in the budget and you will vote today. So you're asking us to consent to a lie. I do not think you will have that consensus. If we look at the budget figures, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand where the government's pluralist policy is coming from. I cannot see where the social sensitivity invoked by you arises when what you say in your rhetoric or what you bring and vote for has nothing to do with each other has nothing to do with it. Myths once collapse. Unfortunately, however, with myths Greek citizens are also falling apart. As much as you underestimate the Greek's intelligence, you can be sure that very soon your untrustworthyness and your political courage will be punished by the Greek people. You have sold, ladies and gentlemen, false hopes. Your first year of government for Greece was disastrous, it is a common confession. I would ask you to consider how different things would be today if you were to support the country when it came to growth. But you did not stand up to the circumstances and instead caused elections in the way we know very well. The results of your actions are known and really painful. The country has been sinking for ten months at the end. The investments are frozen. Pensions are reduced to a degree that leads pensioners to despair. Unemployment, not at all, is being reduced. On the contrary, it's growing. The benefits are cut and the country's budget changes in hand. We are returning to the recession, the primary deficits and the increase in public debt. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are going very far back when Europe is moving forward. The introduction of new taxes strangles the real economy. We, for our part, as Dedicated and Responsible Opposition, are studying, evaluating and voting with unique criterion the interest of our country, what we feel is right and good for the country. We do not follow your tactics, isotopetic tactics, 'no' at all. Despite the fact that within a very short period of eleven months, what was built last time, with many sacrifices of the Greek people, was dismantled in August, we stood up to the circumstances and kept the country where it belonged, in Europe, by voting and our support. But today, with this budget, the inability of governance by the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence is now clearly seen. This budget is far beyond undevelopment, it is material, socially unjust and ineffective. It doesn't lead us anywhere. It's sinking us even further into the stall. And it is your work, ladies and gentlemen, of co-government. Let us now see a number of elements, as these are reflected in the budget. The Greek economy, unlike this Eurozone, has returned from growth to recession. You have received a dynamic growth economy, with predicted for 2015 over 2.5% and instead of being here today and arguing about the size of the positive growth of the economy, the debate is moving between recession and zero growth. These are the results of your governance. I would remind you that in 2013 and 2014, the New Democracy government at the time, had succeeded in achieving primary surpluses and in 2015, we returned to deficits again. In the budget,'multiple benefits' are reflected in the characteristics of the demilitarization. As far as development is concerned, which is so much needed, you say in the budget that the aim of the programme is to privatise and exploit the property, with foreign capital, which will support the relaunching of the economy. We agree on this, and we urge you to move in this direction and we will support you. However, I do not see that there is the will to overcome yourself and move towards where the reality and needs of the country are protected. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece cannot be a game in the hands of anyone. When we talk about Greece, we talk about our children, we talk about young people looking for jobs that are affected by unemployment, about our children looking for jobs abroad. We refer to our parents and fellow citizens and pensioners who have worked for many decades hard to have the minimum reward today. We are talking about exploiting the potential of the entire working population. We are standing in support of the productive forces of this place, the strengthening of entrepreneurship, particularly in the private sector, because this is the only way to increase the wealth of the country. We are also focusing on the development of the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors, ensuring social cohesion and the welfare state, protecting our national interests particularly at the time our surroundings are burning. We stand in all that will bring back the smile to every Greek and every Greek woman. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not representing Greece today. The state budget for 2016 is not the one that we deserve. We cannot consent either to irresponsibility or to lies or backwardness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-eight students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Preveza General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Another Member will speak before the State Secretary. Mr. Ioannis Sifakis has the floor from SYRIZA for exactly six minutes to speak at 14.00 the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the state budget, you must be sure to know properly at a calm time and without wishing to be blind to what conditions you are in, what prospects you might have and what the signal is, what the budget which is being presented to society is, what is the sign, which is, of course, about what social classes and groups you come to serve, because no one has any illusion that there is a budget that is socially neutral. Surely the budget submitted, which is to be voted on today, would not normally be the best one to dream of a left party, a left party who for decades has been fighting for values, such as the substantial strengthening of the social state, a substantial improvement in expenditure, for health, education, welfare, wages and pensions. We would certainly like social spending to be as much or above the average of Europe as of the whole developed world. In view of the reality, however, we all understand under what conditions this budget has been submitted, what the possibilities that government has in these circumstances. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, know that we are living in conditions of financial suffocation. We are living at a time when there is a great effort to stabilise, following the signing of the agreement of 14 August, with the economy for many years without growth, without banks financing the real economy, small and medium-sized enterprises and healthy entrepreneurship - which we hope will be done with this recapitalisation after the regulation of red loans - with society particularly struggling with the policies of all the last few months, which are coming to her behind and with a government that is struggling to negotiate some of the elements that have managed to remain open to the agreement and which fights to save what she can in favour of the poor and medium-sized strata that she has supported and which she represents. We are still living under cruel conditions of attack by all the domestic and international establishments throughout the period from Genarris to today against the significant development of the first left in the heart of Europe and even the fear of spreading the left microbe, the forces that question austerity throughout Europe, starting from the south. Development in Portugal after the apparent stabilisation in Greece makes them even more afraid. We also live in conditions where the attack of the local maintenance and interoperable forces is done to keep nothing in place and to go in the usual way. There is a special sabotage through the bases of the old in public administration, local government, trade unionism. We are still living under conditions that our people twice did not solve within this time in the full attack of sluggish and tied, domestic and foreign, to end once and for all with the Left, with the processed theory of the left parentheses, burdening their enormous responsibilities for the mess of society, the economy and, in general, the country on the left, which today beats all the results and paths of all the decades of their criminal policy. Let the people forget who the blame is and give them an alibi and forgiveness. In these circumstances, then, what do budget figures say to key questions showing its direction? Are government expenditures being reduced horizontally? Oh, no. Military expenditure is reduced, wages, pensions, OTA and preferential allowances are not automatically reduced. Is a social policy area being created? Yes, based on the small primary surplus and the significant tendency to contain the recession. Is social costs reduced? No, on the contrary, more than EUR 800 million is being increased. Even in these circumstances, the Left shows signs and its social face, as much as can of course be done within the given conditions and the need for a balanced budget. In health, they've been recruited for many years. This government majority understands that the first priority is to strengthen the sensitive health sector in which the situation we are facing today is particularly bad. The insurance, which goes beyond any deal, is a huge issue on its own, based on all the real factors that affect it. The aim is to maintain the current situation of the main pensions and the sustainability of the subsidiary. Public investment is increasing, even by a small percentage, but certainly not decreasing, as was the case in all previous years. What samples of writing, ladies and gentlemen, are the answers to the previous questions? Who is this budget served as far as possible? It is clear that it is a sign in the left-hand direction, in the direction of serving the small and medium-sized strata, which this government has intended, of course, to serve in the particular circumstances we live in. And these are only samples. This government has had a great deal to do with its own, the parallel programme which needs to be implemented at a rapid pace, with a timetable that should be strictly controlled. That is what the people who recognise the difficulties are waiting for, but are anxiously waiting to see light on the edge of the tunnel and welcome what is positive in the direction of our own policies and the implementation of our ideas. And, of course, we all know that no result can be certain and stable. Almost everything is under a sect, if we do not restructure, into a cut in public debt. We have succeeded in ensuring strong alliances and interventions from strong, global players for haircuts of up to 100 billion in contrast to the views of Officer Response, which, up to now, have been talking about sustainable debt and even a dedicated opposition that, unfortunately, shows a sad image, plunging through total lack of naturality and strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, we all understand very well that the country's biggest problem is the relaunching of the economy, of course, by the necessary stabilisation directly linked to the first assessment and completion of the recapitalisation of the banks, with the regulation of red business loans with care to the small and medium-sized enterprises. Only after the economy is relaunched will it begin to reduce the German unemployment, produce wealth, increase the Gross National Product, and only then will there be hope for the future. The NSRF began by doubling the advance on new projects and insisting on the stimulus of past projects. The development law is being completed, despite the great slowness observed. Ensuring the reduction of public debt by spring will significantly enhance the country's credibility and the investment interest in the private and social sectors of the economy, which together with the substantial opening up of banks and the channelling of liquidity into the real economy are the means for relaunching. The aim is a new developmental and productive model, geared to real social needs and not to serve day-to-days and to secure major contractors' profits, such as the ones we have been living for at least the past few years. This government, following the budget vote, must speed up the parallel programme adopted by the Greek people. We will all go ahead to deal with the pathogenesis and forces of the old in the state that constrains any changes. It should show examples of writing in dealing with interacting, corruption, smuggling, tax evasion and tax evasion, strengthening the principles of social justice in every area of social life, and applying policies that make it quite clear in society the signal for the decisive strengthening of redistribution policies for the benefit of the poor and medium-sized strata that have shown us and anticipate only from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Mr Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first meeting of the Ministers for Labour and Social Security of the countries was completed yesterday by Europe and Asia. The debate there included two trends in perception and political perspective. Basically, two. They are those who support neoliberal policy and want to reduce the social state and those who, like us, are struggling internationally to achieve the greatest possible social protection for our peoples. The distinction was very clear. I see her here, too. Because as I returned this morning, I watched what was said in these days that the country's budget for 2016 was being discussed. Illustrations many, distortions of our positions, misinformation. I must remind you that social security has only been damaged in recent years. Continuous reductions, total weakening of social security policies. Since July 2014, contributions to social security institutions have been reduced by 3.9%. This means about EUR 1.25 billion lost per annum by social security institutions. And in what environment and in what policies have these reductions been made? It's a known number now. This is 4.2 billion, following the reductions implemented by the PASOK - New Democracy, from 2013 onwards. We've been loaded, the Greek people have been loaded. Now they are calling for the change and they are also calling for those who have implemented these policies. EUR 4.2 billion must be saved from the public budget, loaded by the Greek people to deal with this damage caused by these policies after 2013. And it is known that EUR 5.8 billion is the damage of pensioners, that is, the reduction of pension earnings after 2010 annually. I have said, on the basis of the social security institutions' statistics, that we have a reduction in pensions in the public sector which reaches 48% and in the IKA which reaches 44%. Reduction of pensions. That's the past. And what are the prospects that we have to face? It is not only the agreed ones - both from the New Democracy and from the PASOK and the Potami - which come from old commitments and which are included in the previous memorandums, which we must address through a consistent policy, but in an effort to overcome the difficulties and problems, so that the recession in the country is not strengthened. We have a recession that exceeds 25%. We have a fall in unemployment rate of over 27%. We have a complete weakness for small and medium-sized professionals to pay contributions. We have 12 billion debts to the EUPM from the free traders. We have a huge weakness in the involvement of self-employed scientists in their social security obligations. It has also been demonstrated by the procedure of selecting minimum insurance categories which, according to us, were, in our view, a solution, even temporary. It would apply until December 2016 this option to choose insurance categories. I would like to inform you that of the two hundred and sixty thousand OSCE debtors, the microprofessionals, that is, about fifty thousand were those who were in full indebtedness and who chose three lower categories. The rest of them couldn't choose. With regard to engineers, who are the most tested category of EBRD insured, twenty thousand selected lower classes and only four thousand of them were debtors, who were not aware of contributions. It was only four thousand. In other words, you realise that neither those who had to and had the ability to opt for this option of less insurance costs did not come here to choose that option, because they were not able to be involved in the process of informing the insurers anyway. That's the set. That is why nothing can support a prospect of sustainability unless we change the social security system in the country. And to stop this attempt to obscure the truth, because we don't have much chances as a country to get out of this stature, from this destructive course. We must - and we will do so - achieve this - the youth, the young people and the young people of the country to believe in social security. Wherever you go and ask the young people, they will tell you "There is no point in getting into the social security process, because I will not be retired". This ends. Social security in the country becomes sustainable. That's our policy. It ensures pension for all. A national pension, without being linked to income, of 60% of the intermediate income and, hence, the proportional pension, guaranteed by the state, will be proportionate to the incomes that each has generated and on the basis of the amounts that it has contributed. That's the truth. That's perverted, too. It was attributed to the Secretary General of the Ministry, Mr. Nefeloudis, that we are supposed to link the pension and make it dependent on the level of income of each insured person. This doesn't come out of nowhere. Always the replacement rates - and now and before - were calculated on the basis of the redistributive system and the insurance category each has. That is now also the case, because we will enable the free traders and the self-employed to contribute, on the basis of their real economic potential, to a system which is transparent, honest, also linked to the capacity to tax and to the ability of the insured. We stop having a system that persecutes the insured. We are creating a system of protection and upgrading of social security. We'll see that in his details when we file our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u11	Mr Javarras from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes, and then Mr Mandas, Parliamentary Representative. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, in this very top parliamentary procedure we are all able to give not just the mark of its ideology, but above all what is the special intervention of its party in the country. But for us, the Members of the New Democracy - and I think for most of us - it is well known - and I wanted, above all, very much to remind the previous Deputy Secretary-General - that the Left is not so young that he hears that he has understood nothing about the history of her ideas nor about the way in which her presence in politics was linked to social security systems. Because I think it should be at least known that these social security systems did not come from left-hand ideas. It is precisely the confrontation of the mid-war and the governments that suffered the bad economic crisis of the late 1920s to relaunch the economy and society. John Maynard Keynes wasn't a leftist or a communist. And, of course, with great interest, I see many of you leaving Marx and moving on to Keynes. That's very good. It is not bad, but at least you must do it consistently and with morality. Because, after the war, what is the basis of all the social security systems is the Plan Beveridge that emerged then from Great Britain and of course linked to the New Deal authorities. This Left did not make it either from its history or from the fact that it is the one that supports the desperate in a classic and unadulterated way. And I was sincerely surprised when I heard many of you go up to the Step and talk about the classicity of this budget. What does it mean to be classic in a budget? Your government, the one you are supporting, is the one that the Prime Minister said here days ago that he only cares to satisfy those who have voted for him. And above all - it was also heard by a minister's lips - the government MPs do not care what the effects of capital restrictions on banks will be, because their own people have no deposits, although, of course, it turns out that too many ministers have very large deposits. In other words, they make us, too, the supposed representatives of urban democracy, jealous. Well done, though! This is something very positive, because I think that the time has already come for the Greek Left to deal with the ideological identity which the left parties have already acquired in Europe. Of course, there is a very good deal of talk in a last book from the 'Polis' publications, which I very much welcome - it is Jacques Gilliard, the French left - about the cultural Yalta. In other words, the Left, the one still fighting for very high ideas, has joined moral liberalism and left economic liberalism on the right. As also, he is interested in setting a pace in the field of the economy, respectively, in the way right cares to put a rhythm in the field of morality. So, what classicity can we talk about today, when most of you are fighting for the philosophy and policy of defending human rights, which is a common heritage of Enlightenment for all of us, and others are struggling to at least give a decent picture of the fact that it was receiving them from a government, which, with the first elements of the budget being passed, bears witness to its failure? He confessed to this failure and the resigned, Mr Sakellaridis, who, by addressing the Prime Minister, said: 'We lost, we failed'. And they failed, in fact, because, while they had promised the Greek people that they would do things better than New Democracy and the PASOK, they were not able to incorporate the new one in a year of governance. On the contrary, you see that from the elements of the budget that we are voting on today, it has emerged that we spent the third quarter of 2015 in the recession, that the public economy is already recording primary deficits, that it has increased by nine percentage points on GDP, and that it has already reached 188%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because I know, Madam President, that you will not allow me specifically to continue, I come, not by protesting, but by understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Javarra, you're prejudiced. It's not me. Mr. Mada, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u14	I'll take the time of my dentistry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u15	You're gonna talk a lot, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u16	Uh, yeah. What can we do? Indeed, it would be worth talking about these issues that you raised, Mr Javarra. It's just that Parliament's time doesn't always allow that. But it's worth it. And I'll answer you in one way or another.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u17	We'll be given a chance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, in a few hours' time, the curtain of the debate on the first budget of our Government will have fallen. As the first writing of a left-wing force in a budget of a Eurozone state is not yet dry, the crucial question will remain: What will be fate next day, the next time for the hundreds of thousands of young people in unemployment, for the elderly pensioners, for women who hold a home and a field, for young scientists who massively migrate, for the public health and education system, for the welfare, but also for the critical environmental issues of our country, for investment, for public goods for public wealth? All of this and many others that make up the reality of our lives in a complex international environment, an international environment with great problems in progress, such as climate change and refugee flows and tensions, wars, terrorist strikes cannot be answered by a budget. Otherwise, we would fully incorporate the depopulation of the economy or the economicisation of the policy. We would accept that in complex society you can intervene in terms of technical, administrative, in terms of alienation from the community and thus from politics. We, as a force on the radical left, will never strengthen such an approach. We're on the other side of the bank. And we are on the other side, because we believe deeply in the power of politics and the power of society. We understand clearly - as much as Mr Javarras has forgotten - the different class interests. And we don't want to, or actually we can, be with everyone. In this sense - if you wish - we understand the budget and its specific limits, of course, because this is an initial and on the basis of certain budgetary data, which, like everyone else, is also subject to the influence of political developments and, more generally, to the impact of social movement. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget is set up in specific historical conditions and is determined first of all by the impositions and clauses of the recent agreement, which reminds us that various proclamations of "yes" and "we want Europe" that take us down with both hands. Secondly, it is a real occasion for a substantial controversy between the political forces, since its vote involves the importance of the vote of confidence. Maybe these two months since the election we've been seen as two years in many of us. I just want to remind you that they're still two months old. Of course, our government, which will be a four-year government, finds its pace, despite our opponents' strong battle with all means. And our opponents also own domestic and international media. In addition, we are fully aware that it is a difficult one for wider social groups, which concern small and medium-sized sections, a budget. We are fully aware that it includes measures and policies, which, if we were to operate under conditions of free will and full sovereignty, or if there were different correlations, we would not adopt them, such as indirect taxes, i.e. a high VAT on goods and services that are widely consumed. But in the face of the dilemma of instant death for the country in which we were found, we were responsible for choosing. And we take responsibility for the choice that we have put to the Greek people in the recent elections, and have been described as 'democracy idealists'. In these circumstances, however, we also have the full responsibility of getting the country out of the Memorandum and austerity. Ladies and gentlemen, if we sincerely approach the budget and assess the debate in Parliament these days, I think we can draw some conclusions: The first is that our country, economy and people have endured this period. In 2015, the "first year left", there was no biblical disaster, as some people were trying to convince us. There have been disagreements, not lies, there have been retreats and compromises, but no catastrophe. The evidence, which shows a very small recession, confirms it. What has been, to remind everyone who insists on forgetting it, was a tough negotiation in credit suffocation, internationalisation of the problem, calm and decisive attitude of our people, as was reflected in the historic referendum of 'no' and finally agreement with painful aspects, but with critical positive differences from the previous ones. The second conclusion is that our roadmap is implemented by the closure of the first prerequisites and the disbursement of 2 billion, by the recapitalisation of the banks. Then we shall proceed with the rest of the prerequisites, the first assessment and the opening of the debt write-down debate. This external seemingly current procedure, but it is not reflected in the budget figures, it is obvious how critical it is in the context of stabilising the economy. It is noteworthy that the irresponsible and vulgar political attitude of opposition parties when they claimed to regulate red housing loans that we would have first time auctions. You have tried, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population of certain parties, to obscure the absolute protection of 25% of the borrowers with a guarantee and a subsidy from the state, when there is a weakness of the borrower, as well as the protection of the remaining 35% with an income of 20,000-36,000 with a substantially haircut of the loan, as it will be defined in the current commercial value, much lower. Do you know that the vast majority of Greeks are covered by this range of income criteria? It is also noteworthy, irresponsible and unresponsible politically the opposition parties' attitude when they talk about scandal in the recapitalisation of the banks, when you knew that this need had emerged much earlier. With the continuing dismantling of the shares, the alleged intervention of the state was on paper. Participation may have been over 60%, but without any voting rights. While we have now secured the right to vote with common shares, we have finally guaranteed the deposits and have only spent 6 billion, of course, on public debt, from the 25 billion available loan for the recapitalisation. Also, we have high rate of return via 8% of Cocos. In this process, too, I include the regulation of red loans. What have you received from the previous recapitalisation of 25 billion in 2012-2013? Did you just lose everything? And what did you do about the red loans that you, on the altar of our 'our children', the opacity and the dark paths you escalated? The third conclusion is that the budget, as I have said before, includes budgetary adjustment measures, austerity measures to say it simply. However, this is done in a context of extremely reduced primary surplus requirements, which save us, for example, in the first year, in 2016, 7 billion. We have tried and reflected in the budget our social discriminatory attitude and the effort to restart. For example, we are increasing the solidarity levy on the highest incomes. We're increasing the luxury tax. We are increasing by three points, at 29%, the tax on profits by companies, which is essentially about companies with profits of more than EUR 1 million. We are energising the taxation of television licences, which you are not even whispering about. We are increasing the social costs by 822,000, 000, for hospitals, over-aged people, for the humanitarian crisis, and we are running after many years with new recruitments by the social state. We are strengthening the public investment programme for the first time in years. We are reducing the defensive costs which, I recall, were voted for by all parties but on the left, no matter what they were, throughout the post-population period. We are increasing the rate by 7% of the pre-financing of the ESRB. We are implementing an active employment programme by channeling over 500,000,000 resources for over 100 000 unemployed. We are already giving positive samples of writing to the hit on tax evasion, increasing controls and attesting fines, while exhaustingly controlling all the famous lists. We are presenting a realistic budget based on parametric elements and objectives and that is why it is possible to do so. You see, in almost we have not accepted to put into the budget - which we will achieve, it is certain that we will succeed, these are our scripts - no revenue from the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion, although all the evidence, as I said, shows the serious work we are doing. The fourth conclusion is that, here in this Chamber, some myths are repeated persistently to become stereotypes, easily pass to public opinion. I would like to reply to that, and some of my colleagues have said so before, and they have repeated them. They say: "The Left also has its responsibilities, even if it did not govern. It has its nest crushed." Reply from the written suggestion by Giannis Drasakis in 2006 for the 2007 budget. So, referring back to the past few years, the strong growth that you said at the time in correspondence of the past year's surpluses and the success of the success story said to you: "First, a key feature of the last ten years is its increasing dependence on lending and on a reduced but still significant extent on European funding. However, past loans will increasingly be served as a constraint, both consumption and savings, and therefore investment. So what today triggers consumption and growth, tomorrow will act as a limitation. The second feature is its high dependence on exports of both goods and services and foreign capital to cover the external trade deficit. These funds are the acquisition of ready-to-eat businesses and not the creation of new ones. The continuation of this strong growth, therefore, means continuing and increasing the pressure on wages, labour rights, the divestment of public property and the defilement of the economy. An international disturbance or crisis may lead to a massive capital outlet, with a risk that the latter will be transformed into an internal crisis." I would remind you that he was saying it a year before the 2008 crisis. "The third feature and indicator of its overall social outcome is the division of inequalities and poverty. The problem is so acute that even the Governor of the Bank of Greece then, Mr Garganas, accepts that inequality and poverty in the dimensions they have received, are one of the most important problems facing the Greek economy and society. The fourth structural feature of development is that it is done at a cost to the environment. And, finally, the fifth is that it contributes reduced revenues to the state budget. Thus, tax revenues as a percentage of GDP fell from 26.5% in 2000 to 23% in 2006 due to extensive tax evasion and tax evasion.’ That's all to remember what the Left did, what the Left said and what the Left was fighting for. Yes, the Left is responsible and her main responsibility is that she didn't overthrow you earlier. We say that the retention of 6% of supplementary and main pensions does not go to the EEA, i.e. to reinforce health contributions, and we have repeated this many times. Answer. Read page 109 of the report which reads: The abovementioned intervention is estimated to generate revenues of EUR 355,000 in 2015 and EUR 711,000 in 2016. They also say that the 2016 budget is inextricable. Answer: When last year's budget had a gap of about 2 billion, you should probably be a little more careful. It would also be advisable to present us with a little bit of what you have done, say the years of the memorandum, to combat tax evasion and corruption, as these days, such as the 'black' funds of the 'SIEMENS', for ATE and the'sealands', finally come before justice. So don't challenge the Greek people! They say: "You have destroyed the economy and brought in an improper and tougher memorandum, you have turned us back three years." Answer: History is not written with 'if' or with supposed take-offs of the economy. The reality is that you fell out of 2 billion in the closure of 2014 and that's not why others, the perverts of SYRIZA, you didn't complete the fifth evaluation. How, then, would you cover the country's needs for the repayment of 2015 debts? That's not what you're saying. With the patient growth you had? With the famous credit line or undermining any different effort, when in February, not a month from the government of SYRIZA, did the state have half a billion less to pay wages and pensions? With the new agreement, we put an end to the material momentum of the economy which had been entangled by the objectives of the high primary surpluses. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, of the parties that have ruled the country for decades, what really angers you is that you are not the ones who are capable, the enough, the integers at the wheel of the country and are the'smart people', even if your mechanisms still hold well. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my speech, I would like to recall the great picture. The Eurozone and the European Union, especially after the latest developments - terrorist blow, refugee flows and so on - are fighting. She lacks the oxygen of democracy and solidarity. It is oppressed by insistence on neoliberal doctrines, the extreme inequalities between countries and within countries. Change at European level is necessary. Our country is a first project. In Portugal it has a second chance, and this year can be the year when changes can be made at European level. We feel that we, too, have put our little stone in these developments. But we need greater acceleration, commitment, adequacy and, above all, dialogue with society, with the world of work, with the new generation and, above all, people's participation in our daily effort. We need - and we will do it and we will present it in March 2016 - a development plan for the country, in which each and every one sees himself and the prospect. We need greater importance and hierarchy in the majors, such as the refugee, with all the necessary initiatives at international level, so that the human face of Europe has lifted it, first of all by the rescuers of tens of thousands of refugees, porters, volunteers and, above all, the overwhelming majority of the inhabitants of our islands, not to allow it to be used as a loop that will tighten the loop in the neck of the government and country, even if the domestic voices reproducing the extreme conservatives of the European People's Party and the Liberals are pushing at the same time - listen, listen! - Global. We need justice everywhere, first of all in burden-sharing. And we still have a long way to go. The world, and especially the left world, will not forgive it if we leave any trenches to stranding and corruption, if the right, even in the most difficult circumstances, is not our guide. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the era of absolute capitalism. We are in the era of absolute goodwill, as Marx said, where capital can no longer count on a promise of future wealth for all or independence or freedom. The only thing that counts is the lengthening of working time, increasing unpaid work, low wages and cuts in all services. Half-life, half-work, I mean. That is the reality we have to deal with. Eric Hoffer, an American writer and philosopher of the last century, who at seven years was blinded and at fifteen found his light in a strange way, when he began to read endlessly to avoid being blinded, said: "Depression is a sort of bankruptcy, because we spend a lot on hope and expectations." The parentheses of left melancholy has been closed. It's time for very hard work, with determination and boldness. It is our responsibility to restore the value of politics to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that I have the honour of informing you of the number one. 17712/11602, from 4 December 2015, a decision of the President of the Parliament was made by the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee to claim German debts. [[Applause]] The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u20	Mr Salmas has the floor for six minutes and then Mrs Fotio, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u21	Madam President, someone should speak as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u22	He is also a Member of Parliament, but he is a parliamentary representative. What can I do to you? There's a lot of people on the list. I'm trying. Mrs. Fotou will be speaking for eight minutes. Here, Mr Salma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u23	Surely in answer to Mr. Manda on ideology and on the left for his reports and for capitalism, I will tell you what Andreotti, a capitalist, said. He said that "there is also a left which can pass the measures, which the Right and that are useful to us". In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the sixth budget, which I have the honour of being in this House and really what to say about what happened? I decided very soon to continue to reveal the story of the little Alexis from where Mr. Kammens left it at the election spot. It was just after he broke his hand and taught him to drive the train. The little Alexis grew up and has heard about politics and politicians. So he went to Paris and visited French historian Jill Michele and asked him what politics is. He replied that "political is the art of grabbing the money of the rich and the votes of the poor, on the pretext of protecting them against them." So he made the decision to deal with politics after being fascinated by the answer. Then he became the leader of a large party, which grew up and came to rule. So he went back to France again and met French writer and poet Louis Aragon and asked him how to rule. He answered him: "Youth, you must know how to rule. There have always been two methods, violence and wickedness." Alexis thought: “I am not violent, so I must use wickedness. I will promise everyone everything, and then I will lay the blame on the previous ones, on Europe and on the lenders." So he promised that he would delete the memorials, abolish them, banish the troika, eliminate the shameful debt, stop the country from having deficits, bring growth, dismantle the HNVY, give a tenth pension, pay 750 euros minimum wage and much more. When he started to rule, they took him away and looked for an excuse. He decided to say he was deceived. And so he visited and asked a French theologian, Pierre Sharon, to tell him how he was deceived. He answered that “the most confident way to be deceived is to consider yourself more wicked than others”. He wondered what to do now? He said "go find Abraham Lincoln". He went to America, met him and asked him how he could keep cheating on the world. Lincoln told him that "you can fool everyone for a while, a few for a long time, but not all of them all the time." He didn't like that. He said, since he was in America, he'd get a second opinion. He went and met an American historian philosopher, Will Duran, and he asked him again how much he could cheat on the world. He told him that "may be true that you cannot deceive all people forever, but you can deceive enough of them for a long time to govern a country like Greece". So he decided to go back to an early election. But what's that supposed to mean? He didn't have what to say. Looking to find out what he's going to say in the next election, he went back and met English thinker Thomas Fuller and asked him "what can I say again to the people I've already deceived?" He told him that "the man who has been deceived twice by the same man is accomplice to fraud". He found it a good idea. He said "I will say that the world has voted for us and so I will remove all the arguments of the Opposition for the next period". But he had to solve one detail, if it's easy to do it again, that's to deceive the world for the second time. So he went back to France and asked the French cleric and writer Jacques Boshier if it is easy to resnatch the world. He said to him: "No man is easily deceived more easily than the hoper, because he helps himself to deceive him." So it's easy now to resubmit. He continued to promise that he won't cut pensions, that he will keep the banks up and take them under state control, independently. And the pensions will be cut and the banks are lost by the state. He said he wouldn't hurt the farmers and renegotiate better, the bills are coming. He said the C.E.D.'s gonna hurt, he won't give the public property. See what's going on with IPTO, PPC, etc. He also said he would observe the Constitution. With Article 57 of the Constitution, Mr Flavouraris should not have been a Member. It should have been automatically expelled, as is stated in Article 57 of the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Of course, Mr. Tsipras is now confronted with all the lies he has told the Greek people. He lost, from his inexperience, the only chance he had to have a consensus given to him by the opposition parties in order to be able to lead the country forward and spend his personal political capital on behalf of the country. Now, in the deadlock he's in, he's asking for a consensus that doesn't mean it and he won't have it. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to look at the lies you have said, the political failure, the inability of the country to rule, and I hope that the new time will find Greece with a government that deserves and which at least will be able to take it out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u24	Madam President, I would like the floor because it was referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u25	You want to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u26	Two words to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u27	Here you go, Mr. Flambury.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Salma, I'll speak again. I would ask you to mention more and to look further at the official information that has been submitted to the Commission, for the first time and for the second time. Please do not continue the mud war, which has started before the elections from the well-known interests and some of you have continued. These resulted in arson and almost, unfortunately, in us, a difficult situation in my home. And, please, do not continue this practice, because you will actually force me to move on with actions and initiatives that I have not done so far. I respect everyone's views, but when they touch the limits of dishonesty, please do not continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u29	Madam President, let me explain for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u30	What do you want, Mr. Salma? You said something about self-righteous and answered. Now, what do we do? How are we going to continue like this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u31	Let me tell you. Wait a minute, no more. I have not talked about 'possibly you', Minister. I have spoken about the Member's incompatibility with the shareholder's status as a public limited company, which is involved in public works.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u32	But are you doing what you don't know, my lord?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u33	Let me give you a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u34	Are we going to open this case, Mr. Salma?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u35	The Constitution says that within eight days of the Member's taking office from the oath, the MP either resigns from the company and holds the parliamentary post, or is automatically retired from the parliamentary post. Article 57 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u36	Do you keep the same? When are you talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u37	You were also a MP and a shareholder in the company that had public works.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u38	We're not here to judge this case. That's reasonable. You understand that. That is why this passage of your speech did not make any sense. If we now sit down and discuss, Mr. Flamouraris answering and answering, that's not possible. This is an extremely complex issue and has emerged from 'outside'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u39	No, it's the incompatibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u40	Of course, that's where it came from. How would you know whether he has or doesn't have stocks and what company?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u41	From the CVT published.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u42	No, it's not like that. So let us now finish the budget. Mrs. Fotio has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u43	Madam President, every budget through numbers highlights policies, but they are made up by institutional and economic measures. The figures, in terms of each Ministry, do not reflect these overall institutional and economic measures. I will speak today in the debate on the 2016 budget, precisely by composing all these measures, and of course, every budget is being mixed with its previous one. Firstly, the increase in social spending by 823 million you know that this government in social policy did not expect growth to come first, surpluses and unemployment to be reduced, but, in the narrow margin it has, it has redistributed in favour of the weak. Because that's for us social policy. This money is very little in relation to the enormous needs that exist, especially in the welfare sector, for which I am speaking today. But - to take a little notice - compared to 2014 expenditure which was 668.5 million, we now budget for 2016, 883 million, i.e. an increase of 32%. It is very little for the area of the humanitarian crisis created by the austerity policies and the memorials implemented by the New Democracy and PASOK confrontations, for the humanitarian crisis, which, five years ago, none of the two parties dared to mention, because these two words, 'humanist crisis' were forbidden to you by the lenders and obeyed them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Even today you are questioning them when you ask us to tell you on the basis of what definitions we define the humanitarian crisis. Here you are, as you wish, but at the same time you resign us that we did not do for the humanitarian crisis what we promised in Thessaloniki. I invite you even today to accept that the humanitarian crisis exists, that it was created by the memorials and austerity, and that the Thessaloniki programme is necessary and timely as ever. I invite you to support it. We don't give up. We won't give up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u44	The minimum guaranteed income, Mrs. Fotio?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u45	You constantly repeat that the Government of New Democracy and PASOK has given a social dividend of EUR 450 million. So it gave that government once since 500 euros and left people at the mercy of their fate. Is that a social policy, or is it a smash of public money? Can this be compared to the feeding card, the rental subsidy, the electricity supply credited every month? It is an example of avoiding what you have done. In other words, you have dispersed EUR 450 million, when you see today how we can use EUR 200 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u46	It's 100 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u47	We started last March, eight months ago. You're telling us incompetent. The law was never implemented in such a time - and you know it - and with such impeccable procedures, all-Greek electronic procedures. Never! They were the first steps and gave a little breath. By the end of this year, EUR 106 million will have been allocated, ladies and gentlemen, we are not lying - of the EUR 200 million that we promised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u48	How can you not lie? You were talking about 200 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u49	Didn't you know there was financial suffocation and we couldn't give it all up? But that's why we're writing 99 million euros and we're going to give it to 2016 for them last year. At the same time, in the next few days, we will bring the extension for all 2016 of the n. 4320 on the humanitarian crisis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The second source of funding for the humanitarian crisis comes from the Ministry of Health, where within the additional 300 million obviously the uninsured people are treated free of charge. And we will vote for this in the next few days, implementing another measure from the Thessaloniki programme. But what has emerged from the great acceptance of the Solidarity Card - which is annoying you and I know - is that the food problem lies at the heart of the humanitarian crisis. So we ran and accelerated the third source of funding. This is the EUR 100 million of ETA, which you have not exploited, for food and material assistance, for 2016. For the implementation of this action, we have created fifty-seven social partnerships, one in every county, where the sixteen of these social partnerships will be provided decentralised to benefit the local market. We are negotiating at the same time with the European Commission to include school meals for 2016. Since this year, however, as a first step and in consultation with the Parents and Teachers' Associations, a café has been awarded to eleven thousand pupils and sixty-four school students in the Athens and Thessaloniki complexes. The programme is given. In September 2016 we will start school meals in primary schools throughout the country, in the poorest areas we know from the poverty map, which, unfortunately, we first made from the humanitarian crisis and TAA. The fourth source of funding for the humanitarian crisis is the 2014-2020 NSRP and in particular poverty structures. We have extended the operation of existing structures for the first half of 2016 with funding from the state budget and at the same time we plan to develop new structures in synergies between the actions of the Social Pantographs and the piles and to upgrade Social Pharmacies. We upgrade the structures for constellants, the Disability Disability Disability Dispatch Centers and the Disability Day Centers. We continue the Day Care Centres of the Elderly (KEFH) and the "Help at Home" and along with the CFP will help redesign an integrated proposal that we will present for a primary care system for the elderly. Upgrade the Supported Living Housing Homes, the first small step for the large dehydration project. In cooperation with the Ministry of Administrative Reform, we plan within this month the recruitment of a sufficient number of workers, about four hundred people, to relieve the Social Welfare Centres from the burden of subsistence. As we have said in a recent meeting of all the administrative councils, which took place for the first time, we will use rationalisation experiences to liberate resources and launch the unity, the creation of a new institution, the unity of social protection per county, with the social welfare centres that exist today. A new element of our 2016 policy will be the establishment of two hundred fifty community centres, all over the territory, i.e. new JEPs in the area of social protection, a gateway for citizens to all social services and labour market integration services. All these actions are financed from social and state resources and will exceed 150 million, for you you are adding. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Of course, the humanitarian crisis is not only faced with material aid, goods and services. The main issue is work and social inclusion. That is why social solidarity, as we will call the minimum guaranteed income, will be an essential element of the national social solidarity system. It will take into account the evaluation of the pilot thirteen municipalities and the experience of the humanitarian crisis programme and the CTA. It will take into account our objections to the institutions so as not to become a trap of poverty in a country of enormous unemployment and with huge 'black work'. It will also take our objections into account, so that it does not become a means of compressing the wages of those who have a job, because it has worked in many countries. The design will be done by simplifying procedures. It will aim at linking the beneficiaries to the labour market and their integration into social life. I shall conclude, Madam President. These are the first steps towards reordering the entire welfare state in a national system of social solidarity that operates in uniform rules, replace the old system of pluralism and evil, the subsidised, clientele, the institutional regime that has been built up and enlarged for decades. This old system ends in 2016. A framework law will be put in place to establish the ESCB, which will include all levels and bodies of social protection. It will be simple, modern, anthropocentric, and it will be with our fellow citizens at the time and the time of need. We know it's ambitious. But we want to put our footprint on institutional and operational, the foundations for social protection and solidarity in the coming decades. We shall proceed with political and social consensus. We will proceed together because we need this place and why we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how seventy-three students and students and four teachers from the 28th General High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Because, at the same time, they have been identified to speak a Minister for 15.00 and because Mr Panayotaros, a parliamentary representative, has been asked to speak now, so that all the ministers will not talk at all and that there will be a flow and then Mr Panayotaros will speak and the Minister will finally speak. So, come on, Mr. Giuleka - you're from Thessaloniki - to speak. "Thessaloniki Program", MPs of Thessaloniki, we have a lot of Thessaloniki here. So you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u51	We've got the kids from Thessaloniki. Welcome, guys. As an MEP, Mr President, you will allow me to welcome the children from Thessaloniki in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u52	Sure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, we are ending this debate on the most important bill discussed every year in this Chamber, the plenary session, on the state budget. There's been a lot of noise. In fact, much has been said before by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, who, referring to class interests, said 'we do not want to be with everyone. We have chosen who we are." I, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, would like to ask who you really are, since you have chosen. Because you're definitely not with the low-paid, surely you're not with the low-paid, surely you're not with the unemployed, surely you're not with the farmers, surely you're not with the students. All of these protest and are against you. So since you have chosen that you do not want to be with everyone, and you are with some people, tell us and with whom you are, because in the face of you, as you can see, the whole society, apart from certain minority groups, that is to say, some few people who only express themselves. And of course, SYRIZA's Parliamentary spokesman - Mr Manda, I am taking some excerpts from your word - said that for the first time, some people said that in 2015 there would be biblical catastrophe. He's not here! And of course there were, he says, disobediences. No lies. Didn't you say that you were going to take down HISBIA as soon as you got out? Didn't you say you'd abolish the Memorandum? That's just a denial, it's not a lie. That's the nice speech and the left rhetoric. And, of course, because I have heard it and I have just come to my attention from the Step and a member of the government, Mrs Fotio, to speak with a clear look about what you have done about the humanitarian crisis, I would like to remind you, Mrs Fotio - because you said so - that in the Thessaloniki programme you said that you would make available 2 billion in the first year, the one we are now dealing with the humanitarian crisis. The two billion were made automatically 200 million! All 200 million were made only 108 million, as is apparent from a reply from Mr Juliarakis to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Stagira.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u54	You don't have to. I just said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u55	Mrs Fotou, let me tell you about Mr. Juliarakis - your partner is! - who says that this year EUR 68 million has been spent and is expected to be spent by the end of the financial year 2015 at an additional EUR 40 million! Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, 68 million and 40 million euros are doing 108 million euros! This is the answer of the Deputy Minister of Finance, your Minister, to society. Two billion, you did 200 million and you did 108 million euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u56	That's all you left!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u57	Let's know why we're talking in this Chamber! Don't get upset!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u58	That's what we found!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u59	Is that what you found?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u60	That's what we found!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u61	That's what you found. But you were saying! You were lying! Because Mr. Mandas said there was no lies, but simply commitments that were not kept. Well, I'm telling you that commitments that have not been met have been and the fact that you are going to get us out of the crisis. And you drove us where? In recession and primary deficits. These are your policies. Are we wrong? And Mr Mardas, your Minister, has confirmed that the equivalents for the 200 million humanitarian crisis have been found. Proof that he, too, obviously did not mean them. Because they haven't found the equivalents. Otherwise, you'd have given all 200 million. Today you tell us that you've found and can only give 108 million. Only you've been ruling for a year! Finally decide that you are no longer in the opposition. I would also like to say a few words about the budget very quickly. Of course, in the budget you have really blown off - let me have the popular expression - 'banca' in the air. You blew off the Greek "bankes", the Greek banks, in the air. You once said about the recapitalisations made by the previous governments "nothing about the bankers" and today you come and celebrate why you did recapitalisation. You celebrate because you sold out the banking system of the country, because you effectively depleted the shares of the Greek banking system and because today Greek participation was reduced sharply. That's the accomplishment. In fact, you celebrate doing this disastrous recapitalisation. From there on, very quickly - because we do not have enough time - and beyond the budget, I would like to say something else. We hear a lot about the 'first time left' and the morale, which you express. I have nothing with the Left, of course with any political space and, of course, with the Left, which has its own struggles. This Left, which you have been expressing since January and after you went up to power, I believe that all you do is embarrass her. And I say this because, unfortunately, since January, you are only excuses for what you cannot do as left-wing - and not just in the field of the economy, I am talking about other sectors. Do you want to remember a few areas, because you tell us about consensus? Do you want me to remind you what the commitments you have not made have been? You once said as opposition that there is no way you can consent to anything, and now you are calling us in consensus. You've run away, like the sheep shepherd, saying the wolf comes, the wolf comes, and in the end, when the wolf came, no one believed him. Now we're invited to a consensus, who? How about you? We don't believe you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. But let me remind you of what you guys were saying, that you guys would once bore the bullies for buying, etc.Huh? On May 17, 2014 at "Sunday', Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras in the question: "Why do you exclude national consensus?" he says: "Only after the national elections will we make a consensus." On October 10, 2014, one year ago, Alexis Tsipras said: "Consent as the Constitution provides in this House, there cannot be. And, as you know, we have said it," says Alexis Tsipras, 'thousand times - we do not consent to any agreement that continues with the Memorandum of Understanding, in any agreement involving the continuation of austerity'. Mr. Tsipras said that a year ago. Also, Mr. Tsakalotos - he was here somewhere, I don't know if the Minister is there in the government benches - at the "MEGA" on November 19, 2014: "We with the Left will rule and with the left positions we will go to whoever calls us. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr. Skourletis in "KONTRA" on 19 November 2014 said that there is no possibility of consultation on economic and debt issues. On 20 November 2014, again, Mr Skourletis in "SKAI": "To what do we agree to continue the policy that has levelled society? Shall we continue with the Memorandums?’ On November 29, 2014, in Lamia, Mr. Tsipras, when he said he'd hit the bullies, you know what he said? He said: "Some people have started a propaganda for the need for understanding and consensus. SYRIZA is not going to accept the new measures against the people who are about to sign. That is why he will not consent.' And on 8 December 2014, as tomorrow, Tuesday, Mr. Tsipras here in Parliament, in last year's debate, can you hear what he said: "I wonder, are you asking SYRIZA for a consensus? Should we consent to a state that bends the head in the troika and the lenders?' Today you're plucking your head into the quartet. Of course there's a difference. Indeed, Mr Tsipras was absolutely right. In the troika, he wouldn't be leaning on his head, waiting for a quartet to squeeze his head. And he continued: “To consent to cuts in wages and pensions? Is that what you ask SYRIZA?’ [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be right over and closed. Do you want to go to the other sectors? Can we talk about foreign policy? Mr. Tsipras didn't say what would happen if they got us out of the Schengen Agreement? Mrs Georgiovasili until the day she said that there is no chance that the country will come out of the Schengen Agreement. And, all of a sudden, the official document has come from the Commission, which says that we are discussing whether the Treaty might be revised, especially for Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u62	Is that what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u63	You want to talk about the refugee? The dearest to all - and I respect its institutional role - President-in-Office of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u64	Where did you get this official document? Bring it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u65	Where did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u66	Allow me, listen to them. If you don't like them, contradict them when you get the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u67	Where is he? Bring the document.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u68	The President-in-Office of the Parliament did not say that immigrants are being melted into the Constitution and that they are getting the islands rich from the refugees? You saw where we got to the refugee today. You want to go to education? Mr Baltas was abolishing excellence and standard schools. Didn't Mr. Friends find out that there was no genocide of Pontian Hellenism? And if Mr. Liakos, who is also chairman of the Programme Review Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u69	Will you reproduce everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u70	I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute or so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u71	But in a minute, because you've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u72	...which said that the Pontius genocide was a firework that emerged with Macedonian as part of the revival of nationalism in the 1990s? Do you want us to go to the field of morality and talk about the nominations of nephews, a member of the government at the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u73	No, we don't want any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u74	All right, time out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u75	Do you want to talk about the appointment of relatives and friends of a significant SYRIZA official to the Ministry of Culture and the Region of Attica? Can we talk about the appointments of party friends? Should we talk about cousins who have been appointed everywhere? Should we talk about your unsuccessful SYRIZA MPs that you've arranged for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Giuleka, your son will be waiting at the airport, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u77	I'll be right back, Madam President. If I may finally remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, how you legislate. You once spoke of legislative acts and said that they were of pig origin. Mr. Tsipras was talking about demolishing democracy and Mr. Papadimoulis was talking about the humiliation of the political system. On 24 November 2014, 12 legislative acts were your key bill and you passed it. In conclusion, I would like to tell you with all this that you have put the cunning too high, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and you are, unfortunately, constantly going underneath it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Giuleka, you broke the time in the double. You are the only speaker today and because you said you were in a hurry I gave you the floor. Mr Panayotaros, rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes. I hope you will keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Before I respond to the honourable Minister, Mr Fotios, about the many "will" that he said to us, I would like to say to the previous speaker of the New Democracy that with what he said he reminded me of a proverb of the Greek people 'the donkey said the flying head'! Talk about the genocide of the Pontius, you, the Minister of State, took you to the inauguration of the Ataturk Museum, the instigator of the Pontius massacre in Thessaloniki, to talk about the destruction of the Constitution, which Mrs.Repussi, Mrs. Dragonna, Mr. Liakos now, and the others "wrapped and tied" to the Ministry of Education, to speak with everything you have planned and done with the case of Golden Dawn and, as long as the time goes, the truths come to publicity and much more. Finally, you voted for the third memorandum on 14 August, knowing all the prerequisites and everything else that brings this memorandum. So you are not entitled to speak for any reason at all. I will return to the honourable Minister, Mr Fotios, who has told us so much 'will' - that we have lost the number trying to measure the promises - which make the late man Andrew Papandreou seem to be a scout in front of you. Regarding the gold spoons, with which the Greek people will eat, which you have forgotten to tell us, they are probably trapped in the containers of the trains in Idomeni, where illegal immigrants do what they want at the border and where large commercial activities of Greece from and from abroad cannot be carried out because some - foreign citizens, not Greeks - have literally destroyed the state. You mentioned that sometime at the end of 2016 you will also provide meals in all schools. Very nice. I wish it would. We wish. For the time being, make sure that the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos has lunches in the camps, because as he came out and said, and the Chief of the GES doesn't only have food to feed them, but no clothes to dress them up. Take care of them and reach the end of 2016 to give all the little meals they faint at school, because their parents have not given them any pocket money, no sandwiches or anything at all, from the measures taken by New Democracy and PASOK for five years and that you have been on your way. As for the welfare state, which you have spoken about, you will hear it - I imagine - Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what happened to a public hospital. They didn't have a single duck to give the man and they gave him a supermarket bag to make his need. If, in one country, the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism had a defective 'from here on,' for which, as long as the weather goes, there were new elements, starting from 1 million, 1 million became 1.8 million, there were thirty-eight undeclared properties, imagine to go to the carols and thirty-eight realms, it costs man - if this man had been in the past with an irrevocable charge - if he had been accused of unfaithful service on a continuing basis in order to benefit himself against the public property and this House, this democratic Parliament, did not proceed to lift its immunity if he was in the strong band of those who brought the third memorandum and guide the fates of our country, then we would say that something is wrong. If, in a country, the government and their Prime Minister were severely anti-monstrous, and even a referendum were to be held to bring to the Greek people with specific questions, and the Greek people supported 63% and the next day to do the supremely assembling and pilgrimizing the enemy and bringing the third memorial, the worst of all, then we would all say that something is wrong. And when in a country there were government ministers who, as ministers of the previous SYRIZA government, spoke against the memorandum with disgrace, in words very hard and came to blame the previous governments for not applying the memorial measures, because they were incapable and we will end everything immediately, then there is a problem. If in a country, after what is happening in the wider region, after the Islamist attack on the whole of the world, there were proven Islamic non-governmental organisations on our islands, such as One Nation, who do exactly what they want to do in Lesbos and elsewhere - and we all know what they are doing, direct the Islamics, who go to the thousands of Europeans and what most of our country seems - and did not take any government measures on this issue, then there was no Minister's resignation. When at our borders, in a small village, in Idomeni, where there has been no more than a hundred souls, for months all people have been able to do nothing at all, their fields are trapped, some stay in them and, of course, they can't sow, they can't do anything at all, when they see that they've been breaking in their homes lately, they're messing up, they're doing anything and they can't ask for anything from anyone or if they're doing anything to defend their property, they're gonna be blamed as racists, as fascists or something else, then some serious problem exists. When in a country, a few days after the terrorist activities in Paris, which is supposedly the whole Western world is on a red alert, security measures are dreadful and dreadful, a bomb goes across from Parliament, across the Cypriot Embassy, to the Greek industrialists and the universe breaks up and no Minister resigns, no one is fault, it is all right, then we have a very serious problem. When the NATO Secretary-General comes out and justifies the collapse of the Russian aircraft from Turkey, but does not justify and empty Greece in the thousands, in the flagrant violations of the national airspace by our "allied" NATO member Turkey and no Minister, no Prime Minister, then we have a very serious problem. When we see Greece as a country of the European Union - and unfortunately also Cyprus - having to negotiate this very serious problem of the invasion of refugees, migrants, illegal immigrants, which is almost exclusively being conducted by Turkey, and as a result of the negotiations to take Turkey 3 billion, resumption of accession negotiations and the substance of the abolition of visas, so that Islamists can enter thousands and with far more convenience than the proven ally of the Islamic Turkey in Europe and Greece gets nothing at all, but a few hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, then we have a very serious problem. Because refugees are not even 10% of all people in our country, because they all, from now on, are staying here. The allies, solidarity Europeans, the European Union and NATO, have decided that Greece should be the warehouse, the garbage site - say it as you like - of all those who come from all over Europe to Europe. When the officials of a government, parliamentarians and not just, talk directly with terrorists and not only discuss how we will solve various problems institutionally, but more like 'what I will do with this, all right, but this Minister is so difficult, but we will deal with it' and he goes by saying and no one takes responsibility, there is nothing to do, and then we have a very serious problem. When ministers of a government refuse and insist on the genocide of the Pontius with various stupid excuses, it is a scientific view, then we have a very serious problem. Scientific opinions are other on various issues. But when people call them fascists, Nazis or anything else. These are scientific opinions too. But whenever it suits you it's scientific, whenever it doesn't suit you, it's something else and it's fascist. Instead, after everything that was preceded by the genocide of the Pontians and their refusal by the Minister of Education, it is appointed as the number "2" of the Ministry, one who is not only a negative of the Pontius genocide, but he is also the one who said that the Macedonians were the jihadists of their time. Such minds have put in key positions for the future of our children. We could talk hours endless about the bad texts that are happening and taking place in our country and by SYRIZA, who, from what he said, does not even 1% - is doing the opposite - but also from New Democracy, which, as the main responsible for the anticipation of this place, since it governs the place from 1974 to last year, with changes with PASOK, comes and now asks for the change and cites numbers, which have no contact and nothing to do with reality, because, as many people have said, only the Golden Dawn through its leader and its MPs insists and tells them. All these numbers are blaming you. In this budget, as we have said, all those mentioned above have signed them. They are the ones who took out a 15m euro line to come from the islands 90% illegal immigrants - immigrants now say - and 10% refugees and the Greek people pay the sucker, at the same time that there are people who can't even take a bus ticket and that their "first time left" increases tickets to a very large extent. It's all happening. I repeat that this budget itself refuses it. Besides, the Prime Minister himself in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group said that we are under a hard commission, we are under one another. Try, at the same time to say this on the one hand and on the other, that you have done everything perfectly, that life starts after 5 July, because until 5 July there were no words from you, there were no statements from you, there was nothing at all and that everything starts after 5 July. We see an unreasonable competition between Government and New Democracy and PASOK, about who had brought the most correct Memorandum measures - listen, listen! - and whose Memorandum measures were more successful. No one was successful and no one will succeed, of course, because all this leads with mathematical accuracy to death. If it had to do with yours - within introductory words - 'irregularisation' and your 'death', we would have no problem. But you kill an entire people like that for your fun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u80	Mrs Antonopoulou has the floor for eight minutes, and then Mr Kyriazides will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u81	You'll leave me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u82	That's six.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days ahead of the budget vote, it has been rekindled by representatives of counter-population and by all kinds of economic analysts who normally and daily parade to the media, the criticism of the Greek economy's progress on governance SYRIZA. Once again we hear the same screams of fear, anxiety, insecurity of what comes and what we heard in summer. What screams? SYRIZA, with his choices, resettles the country in downhill. The country is sinking into recession. But I will concentrate on the famous two hundred thousand jobs we have lost in the past year since we took over from the government. These nightmare forecasts, fortunately, have been disproved. Let me say it one more time. The private sector resisted. He strongly resisted and even though these voices and voices were there, he managed to create - that is, we take into account redundancies and recruitment and have been created - a hundred thousand clean, new jobs. To stop, then, this trumpet that tries to lure public opinion, which is trying to influence and create a negative economic climate, and finally, to think about our country, our country and stop lying. It's time for them to stop lying. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] I cannot claim that things have gone exactly the way our government would have gone. Because, for us at the moment, there is no success story. And for us in the Ministry of Labour there is no success story, although we have received the country with 26.5% unemployment and unemployment has fallen by 1%. But what are we gonna do? Are we going to celebrate what we're doing? Approximately 24.5% -25% will celebrate because we have positive developments in this part? Look, contrary to the official figures, which show this slight decline of unemployment, I would like to focus on the specific latest elements of ELSTAT, which is the seasonally corrected rate. We are at 24.6%, compared with 26.2% that we had at the same time last year. According to the figures I have told you from 'ERGAN', we have a hundred and six thousand net new positions that have been created. However, I now come to spend the remaining five minutes of my time on three points, which Mr Brutsis has mentioned very specifically. Firstly, last October - October 2014 - sixty-six thousand jobs were lost. Why? Because some months traditionally our economy creates jobs and then seasonally decreases. So Mr Brutsi said that this year this government has been so badly done, that we have lost fifty-six thousand jobs. Is that true? Did we lose fifty-six thousand jobs in October? Yes, it's true. Why? Because that happens every October. Because last year, in 2014, at the same time, on the government of Mr Samaras - the coexistence we had - Mr Brutsi knows very well that sixty thousand jobs had been lost. But he forgot and he wants to say that for the first time this phenomenon is being created. That's the first point. I mean, danger and misinterpretation. Optionally, we get evidence to make the world be noisy. I'm coming to second place. He recently said Mr Brutsis, as you would remember, that the OAED has 500 million, which he holds in his hands and does not use them to serve the unemployed and does not activate, does not operate programmes. He's disgusting. Listen, every year, there is a budget that we announce. So let me give you some clues. In 2013, Mr. Brutsis predicted 2014 and then suggested that 1.4 billion will be unemployment benefits and 430 million employment programmes. In other words, 1.8 billion would go to support the unemployed. In his report on the 2015 budget, when he made an account of what happened, he told us - and it is registered - that in 2014 he used 400 million less than he had estimated. In 2013, he also predicted for 2014 that there would be a surplus in the OAED of 35 million. Finally in his 2015 report, he told us that he had a surplus of 307 million - not 35, but 307. Why didn't he use the excess 272? I'll answer you. I will not jeopardize and I will not blame Mr Brutsi then, as he should not take responsibility for the OAS today. I'll come up with what's leftover number for us today. Why? Because there are always unforeseen events. Although you're planning for a X absorption, there's a differentiation. Mr. Brutsis in 2014 did not use 272 million. This year, in fact, 100 million have not been used, not 500. So I come to the last point, which is as follows: Mr Brutsi said: 'Behold, the disaster that has come with SYRIZA'. He predicted that unemployment would fall to 19.5% in 2015-2016. Do you know what that means? This means that he had predicted that we would have three hundred and eighty thousand jobs to be created. It was, of course, estimated that there would be a growth of 3.3%. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] You'll give me one more minute and I'll finish. He calculated on the basis of data and methodology that said we'd have a growth of 3.5%. Remember what happened in 2012 and 2013 and remember that the forecasts for growth at that time were 2.5% and 6% and what was coming out was a much lower percentage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u84	What 6%?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u85	You can ask a question to answer it. In our case, what's going on? In our case, there was the prediction that there would be less than 2.4% for this year and it came out much lower. We will see when time closes what is the reality. However, the revision was made for 1.4% recession instead of 2.4%, and now we are going and for 0.7%, perhaps a little lower. To conclude, I will say: we took unemployment to 26.5% - that is for Mr Brutsi - and now it is 24.5%. We estimate that in the next eight months, programmes will be activated to support the unemployed who will be over two hundred thousand jobs. So here we are, and we'll see you very soon. Thank you. I am tabling relevant documents on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u86	Mr Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy. After Mr. Kyriazides was followed by Mr. Dritsas, who was to speak about 15:00. Already overtaken forty minutes a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u87	And then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u88	After Mr Dritsa, Mr Georgiadis, the general rapporteur of the Union of Centres, has asked for the floor, and then we will see who Members will speak. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the Minister who has just come to us has led us to a great deal of trouble, because others contain the budget and others mentioned here and here in terms of recession and unemployment, and pension cuts and wage cuts. All this is recorded in the budget. Isn't that your budget? If it's not yours, okay, we can reach agreement, but it's more you have come today to report us from the Step of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to accept and you must admit that the state has been suspended at every level since last November. Your reference, your slogan "I don't pay" was linked to "I don't work", having the feeling of the public, the people who belong to your place, that they resist and don't work. We understand that, you didn't want to hear the voice of reality. It is, of course, very tough today and I want to believe that you understand it. This road is hard, really. This sadness is mean. Of course she's devastated, she's painful. You either follow her or you don't want to. Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality. Colleagues and colleagues, I must confess to you that I myself too many times had an intimate fear: Am I making wrong choices? Did I also make a mistake somewhere, and in particular you as a Qualified Opposition, were you right in things where we should actually react and, if you like, stay with a choice that was in your direction? You also see today that we have a specific menu. You can't do any different. Speaking with colleagues outside the other Europe, my fellow Members, you will allow me to say, we have spoken to put a little back on them, because we have indeed had more than thirty years to deal with issues, we have tried to bring them to a happy end in two years. These were difficult and difficult to find. I understand that, and I understand your position. But you must accept that this is exactly what is happening: you have not put your back on nowhere. On the contrary, we have continuously and permanently had permanent reactions. And today you are calling for consensus - and you are welcome. I'll tell them and then. I understand your difficulty that thirty-five Members withdrew their position. It is important that they have not spoken and will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u90	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u91	With regard to the reference made by the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Manta, that, yes, we had mentioned this much earlier, Mr Drasakis at five points which were referring to the economy, he had mentioned and anticipated all these conclusions and where the economy would lead. So, Mr. Mada, why these lies? Since you knew long before that we were committing crime, why did you follow the same practice in the sense of multiple lies, wanting to satisfy everyone and everything? You're slaughtering everything. You're stabbing everything. Here, however, is the reality that you are facing today. This is unfortunately the reality. If you consider us criminals once, you, Mr. Manda, are twice as criminals. You tell me, the cause justifies the means. I understand that. But you must accept the reality. And, of course, I must say that as far as the Prime Minister's reports and Kozani are concerned last December, but also recently in your parliamentary group, 'Let dogs bark' or 'crowd' - another version - 'and the caravan moves' - there is no way of understanding. We have to understand that. We all realise that things are difficult, but this consensus should also have a certain content. He referred to the strikes, the incidents, the disasters that took place at the time New Democracy ruled, that "when we become a government, strikes, incidents, disasters will no longer exist". You see exactly what's going on and I don't want to imply that all this was motivated in terms of SYRIZA. But today there are strikes and mobilizations, and the MATs need and accompany you in whatever steps you take to ensure you. This is the police, which has a particular role, and has a specific mission and operates under its ambition, which, Mr Manda, often hurts it, and you have to understand that. For the first time - I believe - Dedicated opposition in political times has come to support the Minister of Government. This was done by the New Democracy, supporting Mr. Panousis in too many options that were right. We must, and we must, do so. And that's how the New Democracy does. The police, as well as issues relating to a national case, sees them with a national eye, not with a party eye, as you do. You referred to the fulfilment of the demands of the Armed Forces officials regarding the decisions of the Council of State. Recently all this has been referred to the Ministry of Finance, as Mr Kammenos said. The Ministry of Finance answers that this will be possible if the country's finances allow it. As you can see, all this is unrealistic, which, unfortunately, once again repeats without any satisfaction. Please, come on, actually. Rule this country because this is your mission. If you can't have the other way, the honorable path of resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u92	Mr Dritsas, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget for the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy for the 2016 financial year is an increased budget by 3.7%, but most importantly it is a budget allocated in such a way that it is geared towards meeting the urgent needs such as the exceptional circumstances have shaped as far as the Port Parliament and the other services of the Ministry are concerned. To this end, the total appropriations other than payroll and fixed costs will also cover new recruitments of the Port House, which are necessary to meet the needs of the eastern Aegean, as well as the payment of a staff allowance, impending wage maturities and retroactive salaries and all these outstanding issues, but above all those that are urgent. They will also cover travel costs related to the needs of the eastern front, supplies of equipment and maintenance of operational instruments, fuel supply costs and completion of competitive procedures for flight support and much more strictly necessary. Reality forms an increase in refugee flows, and in this direction we have to distribute our choices in such a way that we are absolutely clear. Furthermore, a crucial issue is the subsidisation of the lines of the coastlines of public interest. And in that direction, with a total budget of 81,400,000, we have planned for full coverage. I cannot therefore tell you that many new issues arise from this budget at the moment. But that does not mean - and I will conclude with that - that the Ministry does not have very important programming which it intends to cover from Union and other resources that are not provided for in this competition. Already through the small and shrunk programme for public investment, this year, at the last minute and after the disasters both for Skopje and for Hydra and for other regions, we have managed to have a small but important intervention in support and support for those regions which have been affected by natural disasters, particularly in port facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the budget debate is an extremely political problem. And here, indeed, the speech of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Christo Manda, was absolutely right. Politics is the progressive, promotional synthesis of contradictions and contradictions. You can't ignore them or the contradictions or the contradictions. It is important - to judge all of us - what key one is using to recognise these contradictions, to recognise the contradictions, to stand up to them, to stand in favour of many or a few in favour of the contradictions, to recognise difficulties, to recognise the causes of which these difficulties are produced and to move forward in a direction in which to compose advances through these difficulties. Instead, we have the well-known bi-political opposition, which is what is called - and has prevailed in recent years in our country, perhaps internationally - 'degrading the opponent'. It is the post-modern contribution of the mediation system to politics, to the despair of politics, which is now also in Parliament's Chamber. It is not politics, that is, ladies and gentlemen. It's inappropriate. Degradation has nothing to do with the strict and necessary criticism of counter-population towards each government, because it is avoiding responsibility. The reason for SYRIZA's opposition, unlike what is said, was hard, often it can be said that it can also be exaggerated as rhetoric, but it has never been degrading. It was in the direction of the composition of the alternative proposal. Where is the alternative proposal in this direction? Where's the realization of politics? Where's the fairness of politics? Politics is justified by the alternative proposal. And we are now in the face of a phenomenon where it does not oppose the government simply a party or two or three, a regime, a system. Funnyly, these parties play a less important role, they play a role. The first line is held by the economic, medium and other interests and the Uganda parties come to serve as mediation and other circles every day, and they also make use of them within the House. These are parties - pigeons, they have nothing to do with parties forming programming and responsible political positions. And it is precisely very characteristic that, while we have never talked about the universal government, today is constantly growing the phenomenon of a universal opposition. All united against SYRIZA, with terrible misleading lies, with observations. While refusing, for example, to the Heads of State or Government to discuss the issues of insurance and the common attitude of the whole political world and of the whole political spectrum, there is no pension reductions, while refusing to take a stand, they refuse to make a front against all the monetaristic, neoliberal pressures, which we know are now coming to justify - and that is what they have done in all cases, both now and now, for both Schengen and all this - allegedly a criticism of the government. What, then, is the position of the parties? A universal opposition to a government that recognises the contradictions, recognises the contradictions, admits to operate within them, to compose forward-looking moves towards overcoming, with a specific choice, a discriminatory choice in favour of many. So these cannot be ignored and we cannot have a debate on the budget that is actually the top debate and we cannot be hampered with. Because, here, the opposition rhetoric is also on the verge of provokatzia. We have already heard and heard a lot of television broadcasts every day, but I am particularly interested in what is said in this House as a political reason. On the refugee issue, we also heard the New Democracy strategic planning officer, Mr Varvitsiotis, telling us that a systematic violation is taking place in the Schengen Treaty, leaving Greece open, unguarded and without any control over its borders. That's a provocation, isn't it? Isn't that a match to all those policies of different European Union countries that choose national egoism and national embezzlement? It is not butter at the bread of all those states who choose national dissatisfaction and national egoism to say the responsible strategic planning - our horror! - of the New Democracy that Greece is systematically violating the Schengen Treaty, leaving its borders open and unguarded? Where are the unguarded ones? How does the Port Body and all the people who from morning till night all this time give their best nights? They were already awarded by UNICEF, they will be awarded by the Athens Academy, and that is the least. They have become acquainted with both the islanders and the Greek people. Where are the unguarded borders? What does it mean to Mr Varvitsiotis and to anyone who says such words, 'unforgivable borders'? What could the guardians be, when the Port Corps has welcomed over seven hundred thousand refugees, based on international conditions, has recorded them in cooperation with the police and has rescued more than ninety thousand rescue operations without a single human life loss? All the human lives we've lost, we've lost them in a shipwreck and not in the search-saving procedures. Does the New Democracy's strategic planning not know that research - rescue is not just a humanitarian activity but behind it hide and conflict huge geostrategic interests and competition? Does he not know that if the Greek Port Authority does not rescue these thousands of human lives will be claimed for rescue by someone else and this will also demarcate borders and many other privileged action areas? Don't we know that? Didn't we ever learn the alphabet from its search-saving and geostrategic importance? I am willing to be able to rescue the investigation to be focused only on the humanitarian dimension. But these are alphabetically. Do we ignore them? Where's politics? These are provocations and offspring. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Within the six-seven minutes that the spokesman of the New Democracy spoke, there are at least six or seven respectively, such misleading lies - I will not mention them, because I do not have the time, I have already exhausted it - which are not just misleading but are operating provocatively, they are operating at the expense of the Greek people at the expense of the country. Mr Metarakis, in charge of the maritime and maritime policy sector, of the New Democracy, therefore asks for the government's resignation, because the shipping companies are leaving Piraeus. I will answer him and answer him with all the seriousness of the matter. There's no such thing as that. There is liquidity, mobility, competition in Europe, Germany, Cyprus. Of course there is. It appears that Piraeus loses its power as a port center there is no. Ask the Greek Shipowners' Association, ask the Chamber of Navy. Don't ask the government and SYRIZA. Is this or is it not provocation, when competition is just in full progress and is it a host of countries, states and other international and European and Mediterranean interests with open fronts to hit Greek shipping and claim a share of its strength? What's that? Is that a policy against the government? Does this have anything to do with real criticism? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] Mr President, give me a minute to come up with what I have announced, removing too much from my planned speech. The main political and reformist directions of the Ministry are in three directions: first, reform, reorganization of the main areas of responsibility of the Ministry. Secondly, public revenue increases and reorganisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u94	Be quiet. And you, Minister, if possible you'll be shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u95	It has gone far beyond time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u96	If you hadn't interrupted, it would have been over now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u97	I've been over two minutes, and I asked for a second more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u98	You've reached fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u99	To God! Here Mr. Gülekas has more than doubled his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u100	But the Bureau left him, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u101	Then you complain about time. You're constantly interrupting and you're losing your time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u102	The third axis is saving resources and making better use of human resources. I won't get into the details. The reform of maritime education, the reorganisation of the Office of Maritime Work, the redesign of the maritime system, the change of the recruitment system to the Port House and the prospects for the establishment of the Academia of the Port Authority, the reform of the Public Maritime Service, the Register of Tourism Ships, the fees of boats of tourists and the modernisation of the framework of operations with the electronic ticket and the chartering standard of agreement in the tourism sector, as well as the drastic resolution of the problem of the anhydrous islands, with initiatives of the Aegean General Secretariat, which are already under way, with its Secretary-General, Mr Giannel, the establishment of the Island Policy Board and the imminent establishment of the Insular Policy Institute, are few of the main areas that have already begun and are in progress in the programming of our Ministry, with more than a reorganisation of the Authority and the renewal of the fleet. This will strengthen the structures and rationalise the Ministry's costs. These are elements of a policy, in very difficult circumstances, which is a step forward, unfolding and organising in this area, as in all areas of government policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u103	Before giving the floor to the Secretary-General of the Central Association, Mr Georgiadis, Minister Antonopoulou asked for the floor for a few seconds to make a correction to her speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u104	It came to my attention that, by mistake, I said there was provision for 6% growth while it was for 4%. It was for 4%, however, which was never confirmed. I would also like to say that in regard to what Mr Kyriazidis referred to, of course, the evidence I have submitted is correct and the criticism I have made of what has been said is correct. That is why I have tabled the information note from the Ministry of Labour's Finance Directorate, which clarifies why it is not 500 million. The estimated cash surplus is very different from the amounts spent on programmes in support of the unemployed. To that end, I have submitted the note, for your information, as well as all the data on unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u105	The budget is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u106	Before we go on, I'll make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, fifty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Filipida General School of Preveza. Welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for the Union of Centres, Mr Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Welcome to the gallery and a good hearing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening to everyone. In my two previous speeches, I referred to specific issues on the budget for 2016. I didn't just criticise it. I have tabled specific proposals, both social and economic and development. With this third and final speech on the subject, I would like to make a few things clear - because there have been misunderstandings about what we have been saying lately - regarding the political aspect of this budget, the so-called first-hand budget. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are saying that this budget is a classic one. I don't know if he's classic. For society he's definitely toxic. The Centro Association stresses where it is found and where it believes that it is not in favour of unfounded mass redundancies in the public sector. This is where we're wrong. We recognise that both your own budget and previous governments' budgets are the waste of the public. But that does not make us consider our public enemy. In a democratic society with a liberal economy, the public plays a crucial role. The public must have a role to play in ensuring the safety and smoothness of the whole range of citizens' social and economic lives. The famous English philosopher and father of classical liberalism, John Locke, said: "Between equal and independent citizens, no one has the right to harm others in matters of life, health, freedom and property." A state, gentlemen, these are just coming to protect. It must first of all play a decisive role in this respect. The state, in other words, is not interested in selling gambling, sugar and other goods and services. We are, above all, interested in standing as the primary regulator of fairness and equalisation between free citizens. The civil servant must be clean and inadmissible, hardworking and honest, not to discriminate between his fellow citizens, not to move flags to a party, not to consider his public fricket so as to prevent the state from functioning smoothly. Therefore, instead of you - and SYRIZA and New Democracy and the old legendary PASOK - building a society fair to public administration and decent civil servants, you have built a state of Leviathan, where in several cases the citizen is treated with disgrace and likened public administration as a tyrant, because it is very simply indignant to serve itself. We do not tolerate in our own state that there are slow-wage and useless services. You have set aside and targeted the civil servants, who are indeed working, and you consider them slow-payers. Anyone who works, really, right now in public, is thought to be ruining the street. And not to say air words, I will mention two examples which happened in the previous two months, namely in November at a public agency in Larissa. Thirty-three employees from the total of thirty-eight were missing from work. Indeed, the head of authority justifies each of them and assures that under no circumstances was the proper functioning of the department disturbed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u108	What service was he in?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u109	The service was not known, Mr Colleague, more so that it would not be targeted. Because if we target a service in a public sector, imagine what's going to happen from outside with the indignant world. You know them very well from the publications. In the official document submitted by the head of department, he states: "On the premises of the department four other colleagues were present except me. Of the other twenty people, two left in two due to reduced working hours.’ It's respected. It could be some kind of pregnancies or someone who's in custody. "Four people left on one with a two-hour leave. Two people left at two with a one-hour leave. A person was in an adjacent resting place.’ So many people are missing, he tells you why to sit down and get some rest, too. ‘One person was in the ATM of the bank’. He had to go out and make money. He couldn't wait an hour and go after it. He was leaving the ATM. "One person left at 14.15" with a short leave." He tells you, two people got two hours, two others took one hour, uh, let's get some permission to leave too. "And one person left at 14.35" without mentioning at all." With regard to the remaining eight people in this service, to complete the 20th, "they had departed as part of their facilitation for information on employment issues and in order to meet with members of the club". They could not, in other words, expect to comment and then organize a training for these people. It had to be done in time. You know what? I come from the private sector and will give you an example.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u110	I'm from the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u111	Your right to come from the state and be proud of it. In the private sector, from which I come, I've been working since 09.30 and the earliest I could leave was 19.30' - 20.00' this afternoon. And when I was on my way to work at 09.45, the boss came and said, "Why were you late?" I say, "We're not keeping any eight hours here, we're working ten and twelve hours, I'm leaving at 7 p.m. and 20 p.m. in the evening. Does that not count?’ And the answer was, "If you want an eight-hour, go to the public office, go to some agency. Don't be a businessman, don't be paid with that money, so you can have the privileges to come whatever time you want and leave anytime you want. There are eight hours here, and you have to honor the money you get!" And I didn't get two and a half thousand clean, as some people are paid for in the public sector, but I was getting much less. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me two or three more minutes. I've never abused my time. Please, please, your tolerance. The Head says: 'I assure you that under no circumstances was the proper functioning of the department disturbed.' So he comes and tells us that thirty-three out of thirty-eight people are useless at that moment in the service. So, and we pay for them and the rest, and if they were there, they wouldn't be useful. In the other case, in October the audit of the General Accounting Office of the State, your own institution, that is. It says four hundred public ghosts have been discovered that we don't know how they work or how many employees are there or how much money they get. Imagine what an orgy of slow payroll is going on in them! At the same time, five thousand civil servants in the wider public sector receive up to 2,800 euros net, as they had managed to link their wages to that of the Secretary-General. They are mainly officials, he says, of scientific expertise, according to Minister Vernardakis, who are taking advantage of a number of amendments which have been passed on to various unrelated bills - and I shall immediately mention what I mean by'relevant bills' - have managed to make it clear, unlike all the other civil servants who are paid by the Single Payments Authority. And when I say a series of amendments to unrelated bills, I will bring the recent example of grazing land, where, when we were, as a Union of Centres, outside Parliament, we heard and did not believe. We can't say this can happen to the temple of democracy! However, we have noted that they were tabling amendments and I am referring to the following: the modification of the system of selection and placement of primary and secondary school directors went as an amendment to Mr. Friends' authority, and the way in which they were administered to OSCE, STASH and OSH, under the authority of Mr. Spirtzi and the public building cleaning contracts, under the responsibility of Mr. Vernardakis. I would also like to say that it is a comedy matter, but in our case it is a tragedy and we cannot even laugh. I would like to mention here how unfair we are to the people who are working here in the House this evening so that they can provide us with a proper function for our parliamentary work. It is unfair for them to be described as 'hards' when there are people who, with the amendments and the urgent bills you bring us to vote on, sit here until twelve and one night to serve us! If you consider this right, keep doing so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u112	They're not sitting for free, Mr. Comrade. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Georgiadis, you're finishing up, we've already been through both minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u114	I didn't say they were sitting for free. But imagine some other relatives sitting for free against these employees who are here and watching them work every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Georgiadis, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u116	Give me a minute and I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you very much for your tolerance. I will close with the words of a French eminent philosopher, Montesquier, and try to bring the Enlightenment to this Chamber and relax the climate a little. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] You're laughing, you're ironing! There's no problem, it fits glove in all that we live here. So Montesquier says: "There is no greater tyranny than that committed under the aegis of the law and in the name of justice. Unusable laws weaken the necessary laws.’ And it continues: "The tyranny of a ruler in an oligarchy is not dangerous as long as a citizen's apathy is in a period of democracy." We are, of course, voting against the budget and thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u117	The Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Baltas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, voting for a budget is an important moment for the country's lives and an important act of Parliament. As a general rule, a Ministry of Culture must not have much to say in a process like this, because where the budget is drawn up it is a figure which does not say much. However, the budget has this meaning that I was saying before, because it symbolises a transfer. In terms of whether or not it is conscious or not of the text of the budget and of the figures, the budget reflects a story and promises some things about the future. In this sense it is the symbol of the transformation between a recent past, which has its own history, and in a immediate future, at least, for a next year. In this sense, the budget as a part of the present and the future at a given time, such as today, is of interest, if you like, to a Ministry of Culture, for precisely because the Ministry of Culture, at least as I understand it, is the Ministry that takes care of the relationship between the past and the present, for the continuation of culture as a treaty of everyday life and not just as a major project between the past and the present. And so, in this sense, a placement of the Ministry of Culture at a time like this, should speak with little words about the juncture, trying to connect what I said before - the past with the present - to the level, at least, culture, as a treaty of everyday life. The moment, not only for Greece but for Europe as a whole, is the moment of a great wave of refugee flows from countries affected, from countries in which people cannot live under normal conditions of peace and who leave their country without wanting to come to Europe. This is the juncture. We live on a daily basis, we live in pressure from every direction towards Greece - did my colleague, Dritsas, speak very well about this - and how do we become a country as a culture against this refugee flow? I would say something that has impressed Europe as a whole and taught to some extent, in the short term, Europe as a whole. It is the hospitality with which the Greek people, on the critical islands at least as well as in Athens and in the rest of Greece, welcomes, in the vast majority, the refugees and the victims of the war. And this kind of hospitality - except for some mayors and some voices that say the backwards and there Mr Dritsa spoke ly and I do not want to come back - is a lesson not only to Europe and to ourselves but also a reminder of what hospitality meant in the long term of Greek culture. The sanctity of the stranger, the hospitality even of the hospitality of the guest, the feeling that the guest should feel like home, coming as a foreigner or a beer, from another dimension, to our place. In this sense, hospitality is - if you like - a virtue that runs or must run the whole so-called 'western culture'. It is a treaty that is a treaty of everyday life. For acts of hospitality, in the least sense, we are all living and collecting them daily and at the same time the concept of hospitality, is a concept that can give us another sense of our culture as a whole and in official terms - let us say it - in the context of the word. What do I mean? I mean, man in general is the only animal aware of his death. So, he's the only animal aware that he will once die and his bones will stay on one earth to accommodate them on this land. Every time an excavation takes place in Greece, what is evident is that there are layers of culture, one after another, and they reach not only in the proclassical era but even more back, in the Paleolithic - if you want - era and the attitude we must have towards these layers of culture is double. On the one hand, the recognition that we are the descendants of these layers of culture, and in this sense, we are - if you like - the guests of these ancestors. On the other hand, and at the same time with the monuments and museums we are building - and we are doing well - we are the ones returning the previous hospitality, hosting the remains of those old civilizations themselves. In this sense, the concept of 'hostness', which was thus seen, is exactly a concept that connects the present to the past and opens up in the future. It is the concept that allows us to link - if you like - issues of ancient heritage with issues of contemporary culture. It is known, well known, that modern civilization - to get the thing out of there - is the culture that is in constant tension with its own heritage. It is no accident in this sense that all great writers, all great painters, artists are mixed with contemporary works, with works of artistic heritage. How many Antigens have been written and continue to be written! If we look at it like this, then, modern civilization is on a permanent race with the ancient heritage. Along with the concept of hospitality, the concept of heritage, where the legacy is not the passive uptake of the past, is the active uptake of the past. It is - if you like - the'superiority' of the heritage in order to create today the works which will be expressed today and which will be opened in the future. Thus, modern civilization is the one expressed today forever. Already in Greece, we observe, without any special or any care from the state, that all forms of contemporary culture are developed in all forms of art, always in a struggle with this past, always in connection with this legacy and its "support". All right, will you tell me all of this, well for a university lecture on the terms of dialogue, criticism and so on, but what are these things doing in a Parliament and at the time of the budget vote? The relationship and connection is made, I think, because it has always been in the SYRIZA programme and the Thessaloniki programme, which Mrs Fotio mentioned very eloquently, there is a phrase: "Culture as a pillar for productive reconstruction, for the productive transformation of the country". Because, as we know and as it has been said always, man lives not only on bread but, in order to be able to live on bread, he must at the same time - and he does at the same time - have acts of culture from the lyrics of the hungry or from the walls in the prison cell. So, in this sense, where are we on this treaty today in Greece? We are in a budget which in terms of culture is pitiful, 0,2% and something. In a more general sense, it could be embarrassed, but we recognise that the current problems are problems of far more bread and much less state aid to culture, which is now being produced. We recognize, in other words, that humanitarian disaster takes precedence over unemployment, that extreme poverty takes precedence over health, that education, as resources, and that is why culture must not claim its own resources from there, so that it can go ahead. However, as I said, culture is produced, culture grows everywhere. Without culture, the bread doesn't make any sense. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture must also help - if you like - to the effort that faces all the great previous problems. There is, strangely speaking, a culture in Greece. It produces wealth and it can produce much more under a treaty, that it is not dealt with at work. That is, because we have culture, come tourists to get rich, to help the country. But we have culture, we cultivate culture with our own infinite means, and we consider tourist guests to be part of this common global heritage, which is, as I said, its critical dimension. In this sense, then, culture already, with its museums and archaeological sites at first, contributes positively to the state budget. There is, as you know, the Archaeological Resources Fund, which is currently fully restructured by ticket prices, electronic tickets, candles, up to everything they can set up archaeological site with modern terms or a museum. And from there the resources from culture to the general budget will be increased, while at the same time, in recognition of the above, we, as the Ministry of Culture, must do everything we can to help the unemployed, those who live in extreme poverty towards easy access to cultural goods. So, to those allowed to enter museums, according to previous laws, we add those who have the solidarity card, as are those who have the unemployment card. They should, perhaps more than everyone, feel in which country they are in and how they can deal with modern culture. One more thing, little one. We are in a process of discussion with the General Accounting Office of the State for something that has not been done so far and many young people have told me. At least in state schools under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture - State School of National Theatre, State School of Orchestra Art, as called the State Conservation, etc. - to be able to children there to take the time they take and the children who are studying in more classic studies. These measures are very few. We know. We are, however, trying to show through these measures that culture is not only the one asking for money, but the one who can produce more money from his own self-development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u119	Mr Kalafatis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, perhaps it would be wiser for you to remain in the field of your scientific lecture, just as you said in your previous position, and not try to connect your speech to the budget and whether SYRIZA puts the issue of culture first, because the reality disproves you: The 2015 budget provided for culture four hundred three million. Today's budget provides for three hundred and eighty-three million, a hundred million less, a 21% less civilization. Ladies and gentlemen, is there even one rejoice in the government's policies? Yes, there is. There are too many of them. They are the countries where the investments go and the small and medium-sized enterprises that leave Greece. That is your policy, gentlemen, on the left. It is the policy that the budget we are discussing continues, a budget that expels investment, exposes businesses, prosecutes jobs, a budget on the left, which demonstrates once again how chaotic the dimension is between its words and its works and reveals the philosophy of the rulers, inconsistencies, inconsistencies, inconsistency, the political fraud that they have made to Greek citizens. And what are his intense features? More taxes, more cuts in pensions and social rights, zero growth. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek economy has returned to the recession. We enter 2016 with a recession, while forecasts for the Greek economy before the January elections were positive. We are entering with an increase in unemployment, while it has already started to fall. We are entering primary deficits, while we have had primary surpluses. You received, gentlemen of the government, an economy in dynamic growth, according to Commission forecasts, of 2.9% in 2015. But you did the opposite. The main elements of the budget are proof of the derailment to which you led the Greek economy. Increased taxes fully confirm the anti-development and collection nature of the budget. The enormous damage caused to the Greek economy at all levels this year is the result of the government's criminal economic and political choices. The government's failed policies were repeating the same monotony and torture at every step of the supposed seven-month negotiation. We had exhaustion of time margins with uncontented discussions and acceptance of a new and more painful memorandum. We are paying him, however, all the weak social groups in particular. The budget brings a new storm of tax burdens. Increasing taxes on farmers, increasing VAT on the islands, increasing VAT on basic products and services, increasing taxes on Greek production. Let us say, ladies and gentlemen, how can growth be undone through this orchestra of burdens that choke any development effort? You said you were going to create the Development Bank and instead, you closed down all the banks. You said that you would support small and medium-sized enterprises and you have crowned the market, leading even sixty thousand of them to close down. You said you would give a solution to the "red" loans and take out the first residence for the first time in the hammer. You said you would go ahead with development operations. Instead, investment faces a climate that is worsening day after day, faces banning delays in licensing and inconsistency of appropriate services. Thus, we have rains of cancellations of investment projects due to the continuous expansion of the Greek economy and the freezing of mature investments. However, the continued increase in taxes, unfortunately, has no real impact on public revenues, since the government's anti-development policy has created a climate of economic suffocation that suffocates every growth effort. This year's budget includes the well-known anti-development formula that the government is gratuitously following. Additional financial measures by imposing new taxes and reductions in pensions and allowances. These options lead to a very difficult 2016, worse than 2015, which was in turn worse than 2014. And what's the ending? The increase in tax burdens for our farmers, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for households and for further reductions in pensions which ultimately lead to a reduction in demand, a reduction in demand that brings new padlocks, a further increase in unemployment. It's clear to everyone now. The government's captivity in bankrupt ideals captures the country itself. Gentlemen of the government, you have led the country to worsen liquidity and group withdrawals of deposits that have almost made financing impossible. You closed the banks and imposed capital controls. Your responsibility increased the government’s dues to private individuals. Your responsibility is that the'red' loans have been raised to EUR 107 billion. You caused huge damage to bank and citizens. With the recapitulation you have planned, you have essentially proceeded to a haircut of the bank's small shareholders. You dramatically dragged Greek private and public participation. You have caused a new huge burden on taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has taken the Greek people into a delusion. From his lymphs 'we don't need the seven billion dose', he was driven to the hardest memorial, when the country was out of breath from the markets. The place paid and still pays the so-called deal. Every day that passes without a structured economic programme and without a long-term investment plan, economic reality will be ruthless and the Greek people will become more and more poor. What prospects does this budget give to vulnerable groups of our fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Can you really look into the eyes of the unemployed? The new guy looking for a job?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Kalafatis, let's finish slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u122	Can you look into the eyes of the low-payer, the retired, the private sector worker, who is struggling for tomorrow's job? Can you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u123	We can.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u124	Of course not. Because all you're finally cutting is another year of agony and a future blurred and uncertain. For all these reasons, I am voting against the government's budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u125	The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we have another difficult budget to discuss in which, because of the recent agreement's commitments and the restrictions on budgets, the government has not been able to undo the basic mechanism of austerity, which has been implemented over the past five years as the dominant recipe for getting out of the crisis. I believe, however, that this budget has significant qualitatively different characteristics from the previous ones: Firstly, it is part of a comprehensive phase-out plan from austerity and the Memorandumary commitments, a plan that has a roadmap, which has first steps, which is the assessment and recapitalisation of banks. It has next steps that are the public debt debate, production reconstruction in the country's development model and so on. Secondly, it is a budget that contains more justice in burden-sharing and, above all, creates more financial space for social policy, it is distinguished by a bias for public care and the social state, which are supported by a total of EUR 823,000. And that, in our view, is the footprint of the first budget brought by the left-wing government. This footprint is certain that in the health sector too, it will be particularly noticeable next year. Budget forecasts and in the health sector serve a specific political plan. A political plan that provides for universal coverage of uninsured people, addressing this dramatic social problem which has been undergoing for many years and which is a dynamic day-to-day social cohesion. At the next legislative initiative of the government, there will be full legislative safeguards for this serious issue. Of course, there are also support and support for a public health system, which is in protracted instability in recent years, and which of course includes strengthening it with the recruitment of permanent staff, three and a half thousands of young workers, doctors, nurses and paramedical staff for the first time after six years. Also, for the first time after six years, there is a reversal of the trend towards a continuous reduction in hospital operating costs. It is a budget, which in the health sector serves a plan to reorganise primary care. In December we will present a comprehensive proposal for the model of reorganisation and reform in this area and for the interim steps that must be taken. It is a project, which includes reorganisation of the system of supply of medicines and materials in public hospitals with greater reliability of materials and the protection of the public interest. It is also a plan, which includes renovation and steps towards the completion of psychiatric reform, which it has placed, interventions in the area of dependency on the logic of holistic care and pluralistic treatment for dependent people. It is a plan, which includes measures of decent health care for refugees and immigrants in the country as well as measures to reorganise public health. This is, therefore, the overall political plan, which these budget figures serve for the health sector. There is a criticism that these figures are not real. The reality, however, says that for 2015, we had a expenditure limit in public hospitals of EUR 1.388 billion. There was a roof over which hospitals could not buy extra materials because of the medium-term commitments. We, because we had found that these thresholds were absolutely problematic and would create huge problems in the last four months of the year, in the autumn, we adjusted this threshold, we increased the spending limit by EUR 150 million. In other words, we have effectively reinstated the medium-term commitments and have thus managed to survive the hospitals, to keep their supplies on a decent level until these days, which has created a new problem, and we have caused a new increase in the cost limit by EUR 48 million, precisely because we cannot imagine that we will leave public hospitals, the sick and the chronic suffering of that country without the decent health care they need! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And these days there is a huge specula, where by stepping on existing problems and the difficulties in supplying these days, we have terrible phenomena. We have hospital governors, because they're just trying to get out and report drug shortages in public hospitals! This is the tragedy of counterpopulation in this country. This is the tragicity of political criticism, in a government that has given examples of writing that it really sets public care as its priority. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Afterwards, therefore, from this dramatic cut in 2011, operating costs were 2.2 billion. They came to be, as I told you before, in 2015, 1.388 billion, 1.4 billion. In addition to this increase, there will be an additional increase of EUR 150 million in 2016. This will, of course, be reflected in the change that will take place in the medium-term programme, because that is where the actual expenditure, expenditure on a given basis, is reflected. That's what matters. It is not important to imprint the sizes that portray the cash base but what the hospital can actually buy. This is the issue and this is also relevant to society, that is, if hospitals can meet the increased needs that will arise and because of increased access to insurers in the next period. And, of course, there is also an increase in revenue of EUR 200 million or more in the public health system, resulting from the corresponding increase in transfers of EUR 200 million from the EEAS - from EUR 700 million to EUR 900 million - which also comes from an increased transfer of funds from the social security institutions, from the insurance funds to the EEA. Within the plan, it is planned that from 4,096, it will go to 4,370 billion euros this year. We therefore consider that in 2016 there will be a real financial aid for the first time after six years in the public health system. Our concern is that it should be translated into better services to the citizens, to relieve workers who have suffered enormous work and wage pressure in recent years and to reliance on public care. What is the real political issue for us? The real political issue for us, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have much lower public health spending. Public health expenditure has collapsed at around 5% of GDP, far below the 6% Memorandum Objective. It was overreacting the zeal of the previous governments to cut public health and social state spending.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u127	Why don't you take them up? Why don't you put them up? It's challenging what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u128	We're uploading them. If you understood well, that's exactly what we're doing, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Brutsi, please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u130	Then you'll tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u131	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u132	The political problem, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have low public spending, far below the European average, which is 6.5% to 7%, and this, unfortunately, is an indication of divergence and not convergence with Europe. So, for us, what is needed is a gradual increase and convergence strategy with the average European conditions, so that the credibility and dignity of the public health system can really be strengthened, without an increase in the overall level of expenditure, which is about 9% of GDP, and which is indeed on the averages of the European Union and the OECD, but with a redistribution in favour of public spending and at the expense of increased private spending, which the citizens of a poor country have been asked to pay for these years. That's our target. Today, with this budget we are taking a first but politically important step. This will be a real investment in both the course of the country's European convergence and the strengthening of its European identity, an investment in social cohesion, the dignity of citizens - and let me say - and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u133	Mr Stavros, the rapporteur-general from New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed with interest the position of the majority of Ministers and colleagues. Unfortunately, I have heard them express themselves with easy anointings, simplifications, tax exemptions, iso-occupiations, inaccurate declarations, and again share illusions, although I must confess not to the size and extent of the Thessaloniki programme. You know, I am referring to that so-called realistic, effective, costly programme, which Alexis Tsipras referred to from this Step a year ago in the budget debate. It should therefore be in this Chamber that all the wings of this House, and especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, because of your very recent deserving past, be careful, have less suffocation and we should all be sober, responsible, realistic and honest. Unfortunately, you don't. Nor does the Minister for Health, who spoke a moment ago about a tragic opposition of administrations that is at work, but knows very well that there are hospitals that have no administrations for eleven months. With your personal responsibility for eleven months, the General Hospital of Lamia is without command. You know that very well. This is not a Memorandum of Understanding. This is government inefficiency and uncertainty. Firstly, we have heard from Members of the majority that this government has not cut down and will not cut pensions. That is what many colleagues have said. Let us look at page 125 of the budget. Additional reductions in pensions, social security benefits and social benefits amounting to EUR 2 million have already been implemented and are foreseen. The myth of the so-called social sensitivity of the Left is crushed. Secondly, we have heard from Members of the majority that this government is the first to deal with the humanitarian crisis. The truth is that you did not even give EUR 200 million. EUR 108 million has been given and next year it will be less. The myth of the so-called social sensitivity of the Left breaks down in this field. Indeed, the great financial equivalents, Madam Minister, the then Deputy Minister had said that he has already saved them. So you had the money. Where? From the new structure of the government's left-wing structure, as he said, by reducing the number of posted officials at the offices of the Ministers, as he said, from the Ministry of National Defence, as he said. There have been gaps in content. As recorded in a reply from the Ministry of Finance, which I present in the Minutes, these equivalents never existed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned answer, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, we have heard from Members of the majority that for the first time in the last decade there has been an increase in the Public Investment Programme. You don't even look at the paintings. The truth is, as is illustrated on page 88 of the budget, that the programme has increased significantly since 2013 and remained at the same levels in 2014. It is also true that in the first ten months of this year, only EUR 2.8 billion have been spent. So to catch this year's target, you have to spend another 3.6 billion, 2.8 billion in the tenth, another 3.6 in the last two months. We hope that you will do so, although we fear that you must use it, to cover holes in the achievement of the budgetary objective. Here we go. We'll see. But there is another truth. You triumph that the budget of the left increases, says, the Public Investment Program at 6.7 billion in 2016. But it also predicted the medium-term that we voted in May 2014. That was what the previous government predicted. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, for free the triumphs that the first time left did one thing right. Fourthly, we have heard from Members of the majority: 'The previous government has done nothing substantial to reduce expenditure but horizontal cuts'. The truth is, if you look at chapter 2 of the budget, that the government repeats or updates the framework for budgetary management and supervision of the previous government. In fact, on several points - read it and compare it - the same proposals are repeated in the same way as last year's budget. Therefore, fewer political flamings would not be harmed. One more thing. Yesterday Mr Mardas said that he was able to cut further waste of EUR 200 million in 2015. Let me remind you, of course, that it is the same Minister who claimed that he had allegedly found the financial equivalents for the humanitarian crisis, which, as we have seen, were not there. He also has his value. But let us accept his claim that waste was wasted of 200 million. Then, why in the budget is the operating and consumption expenditure for 2015 higher than the budget and higher than 2014? Therefore, the government probably increased the waste and did not reduce it. That's the truth. Fifthly, we have heard from the majority Members - almost everyone - that the budget is realistic. How realistic is a budget that we are starting to discuss 1 December with a recession of 0% and 1 December, the Minister of Finance tells me that the recession in 2015 will be 1.4%? How realistic is that? How realistic is a budget for which ELSTAT last Friday did the data for the third quarter remission be more unfavourable? Therefore, the forecasts and estimates of the budget are time-consuming, and in any case the SYRIZA - ANEL Government bears sole responsibility for the return of the economy to the recession. Sixthly, we have heard from Members of the majority - almost everyone - that the lower budgetary target leads to the avoidance of measures of EUR 7.5 billion for 2016. I will repeat that if the lowest primary surpluses were enough alone to avoid new budgetary measures, you should, with your great success, reduce the primary surpluses, have already pursued an expansionist policy, reduce taxes, not add new ones, increase wages and pensions. But you're doing exactly the opposite. Increasing taxes, introducing new taxes, cutting wages, pensions and allowances. What is the cause of this unfavourable development? The fact that the economy has returned to the recession. And because you spoke with numbers, I give you a lead. The previous government's target of 4.5% primary surplus in 2016 had GDP of 197 billion. The target of the Left Government for a primary surplus of 0.5% in 2016 has GDP of 174 billion euros. Therefore, because of you, the country has lost 23 billion euros of wealth in 2016. This is why new measures of EUR 5.7 billion are being imposed in 2015 and 2016, multiple measures of what the lenders requested a year ago to achieve higher objectives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need two minutes. Seven. On the contrary, we have not heard a word from a majority colleague about the militarisations. And this, despite the fact that the budget on page 141, refers to the multiple benefits of the privatizations in the Greek economy, with the first and main benefit of the immediate reduction in public debt. There is a clear reason why you are not talking about privatizations, because by a few months ago you were bailing against them. The unreliability of the Left and in this field all its majesty! Finally, we have heard from Members of the majority that the recapitalisation of the banks has been successfully completed. First of all, the truth is that the need for recapitalisation is solely due to omissions and acts of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I have tabled all the texts of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Greece during my prototype. And yesterday the exhibition of the Governor of the Bank of Greece confirmed it. But the result of the government's recapitalisation is extremely unfavourable for the country. This, because it adds great costs to the public and taxpayers, dramatically shrinks Greek private participation, depreciates the previous increases in share capital at a cost to investors - small and large - almost annihilates the value of the portfolio of the Financial Stability Fund and the Insurance Funds, leads to destabilisation of credit institutions, since most of the share capital has reached the hands of private individuals and hedge funds, contributes to the loss of the national control of the overcompensed companies, amends the already approved restructuring plans of credit institutions to the lesser extent. I would draw attention to the sale price of Finansbank. Here we are to see them. In any case, there are great responsibilities both for the need to recapitalise the banks and for its outcome. This is a definition of the laundering of the banking system, to use a familiar expression to you. In conclusion, the content of the budget reveals the government of the self-determination radical Left. It reveals the collapse of the illusions he has been cultivating for years. It reveals that the so-called left rhetoric and so-called left social sensitivity are completely empty. It reveals its inability, when it took over the country's governance, to plan realistically and implement effectively. It reveals the country's return to the recession, the primary deficit and the increase in public debt. It reveals additional, new budgetary measures by imposing new taxes, reductions in pensions and social allowances. It reveals the lymphs for a parallel program and a so-called left gaze. It reveals that 2016 will be a worse year than 2015, which, in turn, is a much worse year than 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u135	The general rapporteur from the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. We arrive at the conclusion of the debate on the state budget of 2016 and we observe the agony of both SYRIZA's government officials and MPs to prove that we are dealing with a different budget, with another budget. Indeed, speaking a moment ago, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said that we are not on the same bank, that we are on another bank. Only he did not specify which bank they were on. And that's not too difficult to uncover. Let us look at some aspects that make the whole rather than fragments. Firstly, is the financial adjustment being made to the detriment of what? At the expense of the capital or workers and the wide folk layers? The answer is clear. The financial adjustment, the additional measures of EUR 7,3 billion for the remainder of 2015 and 2016 have a clear allocation of taxes. 41% of tax revenue is predicted to come from VAT, from indirect taxes, the most unfair taxation. But there, which is even more revealing, the situation is on the expenditure side. If we exclude 500 million in defence expenditure, the remaining 2.6 billion will come exclusively - and I stress the word 'exclusive' - from wage and pension reductions, from a reduction in the financing of care and social security institutions. Thus, popular strata will be invited to pay for the cost reduction. From this point of view, it is clear that, although the primary surplus is reduced in relation to previous memoranda, this is not reflected in improvement, in the restoration of loss, or even - even in relief of popular strata. On the other hand, the reduced primary surplus presupposes new measures to the detriment of the people, so that there can be a greater share of the revenue directed to support the capital of monopolistic groups. Also, despite the honest efforts of the Minister for Health, the data do not change - the situation in public hospitals is experienced daily by our people - when from 9% of all health expenditures, only 5% comes from public expenditure. The remaining 4%, i.e. about 40%, comes directly from the pockets of the workers and the rest of the folk layers. But also this 5%, which is public expenditure, who is affected? Is it all the same? Isn't it your job, your government, in the previous period, that you imposed 6% on supplementary health care pensions, which you increased from 4% to 6% on main health care pensions? So either in one way or another, people are burdened with the already weakened health situation. Second element. Reforms and restructuring. What is the purpose of these reforms and restructuring? The budget is very clear. To improve the business environment, so that business plans can be developed and the recovery of the economy can come. That is what the previous governments did. In order to improve the business environment, they promoted labour market reforms. Of course, in the labour market, the reforms you will continue to do are not in the name of restoring the losses. You're not saying anything about lower wage levels, you're not saying anything about overturning labour relations. On the other hand, there will be even greater liberalisation of the labour market in order to reduce even further the price of the labour force and increase its degree of exploitation. But where it is truly revealing, it is to promote restructuring and to liberate other sectors of the economy. What line do you intend to receive from the privatisations, Minister, in 2016? You're predicting 1,800,000 euros. How much do you estimate it was the 2012 collection? You estimate 268 million. What raise is that? It's 572%. In other words, the new privatisations that you are going to make in the next few years are in areas - as you call them - of strategic importance for ports, for airports, for other sectors and for companies that are part of the energy sector. In this respect, therefore, the additional resources will come from there, implementing the guidelines of the European Union and planning the large capital. What previous governments have not been able to do today is you. Third element. Recapitalisation of the banks. Is there any difference in relation to the previous recapitalisation? Why and now will the taxpayer be called upon to contribute through the increase in the state debt of 4 billion, 5 billion, 6 billion? As far as it gets. But is the pillow for the "red" loans an additional 5.6 million, based on the designs and publications available? So there's a prisoner. As regards the recapitalisation itself to enter private individuals, you say that banks must be private undertakings rather than public control. But the rest of the parties, which are now making you, are supposed to be critical, have said the same thing. So you provide them and give them a piece of bread to private business interests, private capital. Of course, not only did you take care of the'red' loans, especially housing, but through the process you released the auctions in the first place. And, of course, the great dispute that exists is for business loans. Fourth point, Mr SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, is that yesterday's visit to Carrie leaves no doubt at all. Confirmed what? That you were, as a government, militant on the American chariot of imperialism. Participate actively in the planning of the imperialist interventions in Syria and in the wider region, you provide land and water to imperialists and, at the same time, you want to speed up the implementation of American gas pipeline projects, namely US energy investment projects. In this respect, therefore, it is clear to whom you are on. You are with the bourgeois class and the monopolies and you have opposite the working class and the rest of the folk layers. Because Mr Tsakalotos likes quiz - he put one yesterday - I would like to ask the following question: I read yesterday's report. "How will growth be? Firstly, by addressing the problem of non-performing loans, which should follow after the recapitalisation of the banks. Secondly, by speeding up the implementation of reforms on the markets in goods and services. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, very briefly. Thirdly, with action through the creation of new jobs, where particular attention will be paid to active forms of employment, this cheap, free work in capitalists. Fourthly, the maintenance of primary surpluses. Fifthly, the increase in the efficiency of the public sector. Sixth, support and investment growth. Seventhly, the use of public property and the rapid promotion of privatization. Who says that in the press release? Could they have been in the rapporteur's report on the budget that we are discussing? It's Mr. Stournara's. It is the press release which presented the interim report on monetary policy. Even in terminology you are identified with Mr Stournara now. So there's a difference? None at all! So the problem of substance is not in the convenient criticism of the other parties that have governed you, namely the New Democracy, the PASOK or the Potami who actively participated and voted for the memorandum. Why, what criticism are they doing to you? They're making you a convenient review. It reads ‘Association or Development Measures’. Is that the dilemma? The dilemma is whether the budgetary measures are material or developmental? So, what do we ask people to choose? You'll either choose Scylla, i.e. material measures, or Harriet, or development measures. Do you know what the problem is, Mr. Flambury, is that you're looking at me like this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u137	I'm just listening. I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u138	The problem is that, with the real measures, you will increase the taxation for the people's layers, so you will get more money from the pockets of the people's layers, and with the development measures, it means lowering taxation for capital, monopolistic groups and lowering state expenditure. So we will have a reduction in wages, pensions and social benefits. Therefore, the question is what will the people choose, whether or not they will be taken through taxation or through the reduction of costs? Is that the point? This choice must be made by the working class and by the rest of the people's layers? So because the way the government is going is not a path that leads to growth for the benefit of the people, but is a path that leads to growth for the benefit of capital, that is why today you are the most capable of managing dirty work, as we say. What's this dirty work? On the one hand, you must complete the work of the previous governments and take the most difficult measures, but on the other hand disarm the working people's movement, the working people's factor. That is why we are also saying very clearly - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that there must be no illusions to the people about the government's pursuits and targets, about what interests it wants to serve. He wants to serve the interests of monopolistic groups and the altar of competitiveness and profitability sacrifices the satisfaction of people's needs. For this very reason, what is currently being imposed on the working class and the rest of the people's population is to concentrate its powers to break and disciplinary action with this policy, with the interests that satisfy the needs of capital, so that it can, on the one hand, lead to measures to alleviate the situation it is experiencing, to measures that restore the losses it has but, above all, to pave the way for further overthrows of both power and the organisation of the state and society. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 9th Kalamaria High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u141	Why, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u142	I have the right, Mr President, to make some speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u143	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, after the quiz for Mr. Stournara, I am ready to say responsiblely that some things are true, even if Mr. Stournaras says it's true. That is, if he says, for example, that man needs oxygen to live or that groups in northern Greece are wronged by arbitration, I am ready to accept it. I am also prepared to accept that without investments there will be no growth, as I am prepared to accept that without training programmes the Greek economy will not be helped. For SYRIZA's real development model and where it differs from Mr Stournara's ideas, you will have to wait until March 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I would like the floor for half a minute if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u147	It is not a North and South of Greece confrontation. I don't put it there. However, all this effort you are making, Minister, to respond with natural phenomena to the question of a truth concerning social data and phenomena, cannot really, because you know very well that of course the truths Mr Stournaras said and which you accept...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u148	Shouldn't we have investments?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u149	... are truths about meeting the needs of capital rather than satisfying the needs of the people. These two things aren't getting married. That is why we say that you have accepted the same truths as Mr Stournara, as regards the protection of the system, the fulfilment of the needs of a rotten and exploitive system that leads to the burden of the people and the fulfilment of their needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I want the floor for fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u151	We'll have a response now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u152	Fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u153	It doesn't count the timer 15 seconds. I'll give you a minute at most.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u154	In our first course of philosophical logic at university we learned that the reasoning, "My cat has four legs, my dog has four legs, so my dog is a cat," it has an error.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u155	However, what we learned, Minister, in logic was this: The policeman is an instrument, the buddy is an instrument, so the policeman is a bud. If you have that logic, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u156	Is that the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u157	That's the book of logic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u158	That's what others said, that's not what...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u159	Well, please stay here. The Minister of State, Mr Flamouraris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I find myself very positive that I am succeeding in the Step by Mr Karathanasopoulos, especially after the exchange of messages with the Minister of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating is the first to bring about by our Government. As such, it captures our political options for next year. At the same time, however, it also reflects the strategy of our government, the left-wing government, which is strategically moving towards the opposite of a rabies attempt to change nothing in our country, above all, not to remove the scandalous privileges of interlocutory. Their designs will fail miserably because the Greek people want exactly the opposite to change the bad text. That is why he gave us a mandate twice. That is exactly what we are determined to do, namely to change everything in Greece. That is why we are promoting a sweeping package of radical changes and democratic reforms that aim, after correcting the bad texts that have been created in Greece over the years, to liberate the country's creative forces and the country's sufficient development prospects. That's how we think we honor the people's order. In relation to these changes and reforms, we need to stress that the timing of our strategy and government policy is not short-term. It even goes beyond the four-year-old government horizon. At the same time, we are planning the necessary, immediately, short-term measures for the benefit of weak social strata. The main objectives of our strategy through this budget are to create a strong social protection network - and we do it - for the victims of the crisis and at the same time to build an effective, social state. The second objective is to bring the economy back to development, while ensuring long-term sustainable development, because I and we know no other way of dealing with the explosive problem that our country has, the problem of half and a half million unemployed. Thirdly, the aim is to fundamentally change the state and, above all, public administration in the direction of greater democracy and greater efficiency. The broader political framework of our strategy is based on the conscious choice of a European course in which we will defend the interests of the vast majority of the Greek people and not the interests of the oligarchy, wealth and interlocutory, as the governments have done up to now. In this context of the ongoing battle to constantly widen the scope for a left-wing policy, it is crucial that we constantly gain ground in the negotiation in favour of our positions, whether it concerns open issues or how we implement what has been agreed, the rapid and successful implementation of the programme, so that we can regain budgetary and general economic control and remove the possibility of blackmail and comitology. Finally, the European and international alliances, which are both necessary with governments and with political and social forces, are crucial in helping to move to the left of politics, especially in the European Union. But what does it mean, ladies and gentlemen, a left-wing policy? We need to be clear here. Left-wing policy in the current circumstances means increasing the share of labour in national wealth. How will this be achieved at this juncture, where the correlation of power is unfavourable? The answer, in my opinion, is one and only one: with the multi-level effort to reduce unemployment rapidly. This means that we have to do everything in our power to get the economy to recover as soon as possible, to start making substantial investments and people starting to get back to work. It is worth reminding us of what we have achieved so far, because really criticisms which are heard in this Chamber, but also outside this Chamber, I feel that they do not realize or want to recognise what we have achieved in these circumstances. First and foremost, the non-viability of the debt and the need for its impairment has really been recognised and, secondly, we have achieved lower budgetary objectives which play their part in relation to the country's budgetary problems. We have successfully completed the first group of forty-nine prerequisites of the agreement and, above all, we have succeeded through these agreements as beneficial as possible for the majority of citizens, especially the income weaker ones. A crucial issue that seems to be unrecognised and, in my opinion, falsified is that while the lenders at first spoke of 15%, at most 20% protection of the first home, we managed to extend it to 60%. So, we are sure - and people are sure - that no household is going to lose their home because of tolerance. This was and remains a commitment of our Government. We have replaced the VAT of 23% on private education, we have successfully defended the regulation of 100 doses and improved the regulation on the release of pharmacy in such a way that no pharmacy exists without pharmacists. Finally, we must stress that there were some elements of our own policy, which it is necessary to implement so that we can really escape the crisis which is plagued by our country. These are: the fight against tax evasion. The creation of a single, objective and transparent public procurement system. Protection for the application of the minimum guaranteed income. To address issues related to the smooth financing of the ESDP. Finally, many people have said - I am simply saying this - that the successful recapitalisation of the banks really enables investment to be made, particularly in the small and medium-sized enterprises that we are pursuing, but also, at the same time, to draw up a policy that will bring the country out of the constant and worsening crisis. For the next period, what's our design? Our planning for the next few months, in the coming months that are crucial - and this is why we have called for dialogue and not just consensus, as several speakers have said - is that we need to complete the first assessment, that we should negotiate on the debt and agree on its restructuring and impairment. Continue the process of restoring financial stability. To present and agree to our country's development strategy and on the basis of this new development strategy, as well as the debt agreement, to update and amend the agreement with our partners and lenders accordingly. It is true that the next period, in order to complete the first assessment, we need to negotiate a sustainable solution to insurance, long-term, with a view to no reduction in pensions. We're going to fight this fight. Secondly, we must define the role and functioning of the new fund for the exploitation of public property and not for the privatisation or sale of public property. Thirdly, to deal with and find a solution for red loans, in addition to 60%, which are protected. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, twelve minutes I am entitled to my speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u161	Continue with a tolerance, if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u162	Yeah. The central objective of our Government is to ensure the sustainability of our debt, we have said so before and after these procedures that we have proposed, in our view, the crucial issue is this. And we believe that we will achieve it and achieve its resounding impairment so that funds can really be released so that we can get into what we call the country's development orbit and productive reconstruction. Because, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been heard here, we must end the disinvestment which has been in our country all these years. You are all aware that between 2007 and 2014, investments amounting to EUR 30 billion or 65% of the total amount have been lost by the Greek economy. If this is not overturned, in our assessment we will not really be able to resolve the problems that Greek society has, and above all - I am returning to the issue - the problem of unemployment, the problem of finding jobs, which, if not restored, really all the critical problems that Greek society has will not be solved. I cannot go on with what I have to say, I just want to stop by saying two words about the refugee. There has been a lot of criticism of the policy that we have implemented so far. I would, however, really like to stress that within these suffocating economic frameworks our country lives in the port, the Army, the Police, the voluntary organisations, the public officials, the American citizens, organized and alone with the Greek Government, have given and every day give an unequal battle of human values and solidarity. I therefore call on all Greeks and Greek women and this Chamber to continue this effort. It's a matter of dignity, it's a matter of culture for our own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u163	Thank you. The general rapporteur for the Democratic Association, Mr Koutsoukos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate is coming to an end, I think we should try to agree with simple logic, the logic of the figures. Since the Minister of State, Mr. Flamouraris, who is an engineer and an architect and is very well aware of the figures, saw that he deliberately refrained from referring to the figures, because the figures perpetuate the whole of your political argument. What do the numbers say? They say that in 2015 she fell out by 7.9 billion, because she was deprived of income and expenditure was kept at the same level, but we had an increase in the deadlines, that is, the state declared a stop to payments. And in order not to have a greater deficit, the government took measures in 2015 to 1 billion taxes and half a billion spending cut. It now comes with measures of 7.2 billion in 2015-2016 to balance, i.e. returning us where we were in 2014. That's the hard reality. EUR 7.2 billion is going to be paid by taxpayers by increasing taxes and suffering the poor and weak by cutting social costs, especially in insurance. These are the figures and there is no doubt about it. Be careful now, the government will impose taxes of 3.2 billion to collect over 2 billion and make cuts of 2.5 billion in 2016. That is what the budget is for. 2.5 billion additional taxes are charged to free professionals, farmers and all the social groups are charged with direct taxation and indirect taxation, that is, the one paid for by all the people, they are charged with the consumption of all citizens. At the same time, during this period a ring has evolved with the recapitalisation of the banks, which have been handed over to foreign hands, deprive them of any prospect of liquidity, lack the tools for financing Greek entrepreneurship, and we do not know what dangerous games we will play in connection with the management of so-called red loans. The Government has tried in the mid-term, from its preliminary draft budget to its deposit, to have fun with the impression that the projected downturn of 2.3 billion for 2015 and 1.3 billion for 2016 will not be so. However, the Greek Statistical Office the day before yesterday, which revised the forecasts of the third quarter from 0.5 to 0.9 the deficit, to disprove it. Therefore, 2016 will also be a year of recession, where unemployment, Minister, which you spoke earlier about the need to increase new jobs. At the same time, the climate of deinvestment will continue with a decrease in gross capital formation by -3,7 compared to -8,4 of 2015. So, is it a pitiful one in 2016, which carries the heavy legacy of 2015? And, of course, all this, ladies and gentlemen, is under the argument of the government that 'you know, we are taking more equitable measures'. What are fair measures? Is that a fair measure to put in indirect taxes that the majority pays them? A legal measure is to cut social welfare costs and remove pensions of 1,6 billion? What is the policy against wealth and oligarchy? What is the policy of combating tax evasion? Where are these funds written? And since Mr Flumuraris has referred to the complexion earlier, listen to me, ladies and gentlemen. You got in here for the first time, and you did well because you had a moral advantage. That moral advantage you've lost. You are no longer 'inexperienced'. There is no such policy, when you cut wages and pensions and add additional taxes, and much more so for some of you who are carrying out main government tasks and coming here to defend government policy, what they said about Caesar's wife is true, but it must also be fair. So, at the level of numbers, at the level of political conclusions and at the level of morality you thought you had an advantage. Unfortunately, there is no longer any advantage for your policy. Things are very difficult and do not seek accomplices or an alibi. And why are you looking for accomplices or an alibi? Because you took an order in September, you formed a majority, based on the mandate you took, and the Minister told us earlier that you had a four-year perspective. We hope and wish you will also implement your programme so that you do not put the country into adventures, because the country does not need any more adventures or other elections. So if you have this mandate and this sense of perspective of four years, that you are standing on your feet, leave the terminals that are charming the institutions. If you want consensus and dialogue, there is Parliament, there are the institutions of dialogue at the level of society. Come and discuss whatever you want. And keep in mind that when we gave you the consent in July, when things were difficult for the country that was ready for Grexit, you wasted it. Because we have tabled a roadmap which should lead us to the policy that would reach us at least until the first assessment, so the start of the process of negotiating the debts is to avoid any difficulties for Grexit not to come to our door again. So you have wasted the consensus, you have proclaimed extraordinary elections, and so you must now decide whether to govern on the basis of the mandate you have given or whether you cannot govern. If you can't rule, tell us. We, anyway, as PASOK, who suffered all the costs of the political decisions that we took when we received the 15.2% deficit of GDP in 2009, in order to bring it straight and have surpluses, are also obliged to ourselves and to our history to make strict criticism of you. This has nothing to do with the relationship of politics with the truth. Because we have to tell the people the truth and you have not yet become involved with the truth. I hear the ministers here telling us about the devastating PSI. But, ladies and gentlemen, about a week ago we voted for the 2013 report. So, look at the 2013 report of the Court of Auditors, to see what the debt cut in our country has been, the biggest one in the OECD countries has ever been, to see how the cost of debt service from 16 billion to 5.5 billion has been reduced and how its average service time has increased from 6.3 years to 16.5 years. Because you must first have the relationship with the truth, so that you can manage politics. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] So we want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that as a Democratic Incorporation we are obliged both in our history and against our offer to formulate, - and that is what we are doing, we have already started the social dialogue with farmers, we have opened the dialogue with the insurance sector - an integrated plan for detachment of the country from the memorandum - what you do not have - because the country must come out of this three-year period to which you have put it. On this path we will continue this entire period, regardless of your own tricks, terminology and tacticalism, because we believe that someone should give hope to the country, the one you have squandered, eliminating all efforts and labors of the Greek people, what they have achieved in the past few years. We will therefore be present with this policy, and it goes without saying that your budget is being voted against. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u167	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. In my position clearly I said that our Government really has both the mood and the opportunity to govern for the rest of the years, until 2019. Secondly, what I said is that as a democratic party, as a democratic government, as the government of the Greek people, what we are asking for and seeking is an honest dialogue on the crucial issues that concern the Greek society. I have neither said for consensus nor asked you to take part in the responsibilities which we have assumed, which the Greek people have given us. In order to be clear and clear about what we are saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it closes a very interesting process of the first budget which has been drawn up by a government which had to manage a counterpopulation, which was its enemy during the negotiation, officially and informally, has had to manage a Europe that, in order to manage the political lies that have been said five and a half to the European taxpayers over the past six years, had to continue to lie, through false political and financial affairs, to continue this policy which wanted to dismantle the Greek society and the Greek economy, a ten-month period that we had to fight with the International Monetary Fund and the mistakes made. My view as an economist - it may not be my opinion - but the view of many other economists around the world is clear that mistakes were made which should not be made in Greece. Not the multiplier's mistakes, the policy mistakes. These policies were carried out in too many countries with very specific results, and there was no chance of being exercised in Greece, which was a country outside the sovereignty of a national currency, in a zone with a currency that was not controlled, in a zone where it did not control monetary and income policy, and how much more than the inflation and interest rates of banks that depend on the Eurosystem. So we had to fight with a Europe, which was against what we wanted to do for political reasons and a few finances. We've been coming to Greece for the last ten months and we have to fight the truth. We have to fight with evidence, which I do not understand anyone can go up to the Step of the House and, apart from making a quick memorial to the standing, want to blame us already. Are we all fighting with the truth? I don't think so. The numbers are clear and relentless. The PASOK and New Democracy governments took 58.6 billion measures. We want - we don't want it, it's 58.6 million and they've been recorded. Imprint on GDP 62 billion. We do not want the PASOK and New Democracy Government to give us 78.6 billion red loans in December 2014, 78.6 billion red loans, business, consumer and housing. The PASOK government received 22 billion, and handed over 78 billion to New Democracy. PASOK and New Democracy added 53 billion red loans. We arrived two days ago threatening to investigate. Who? We are. I am the first to say, on the basis of the knowledge that, in any case, any examination of this kind, whether it is going to continue, where a great deal of work has been done, and I hope that it will continue, whether it is done in relation to the PSI, both for the insurance funds and for the banks and for the general economy, and for whatever damage the PSI has brought to the Greek economy, I will be present, because I have the information and need a methodicality. We're not here to fight. To be forgiven by the friends who accuse us, I will not reveal the way in which we do the examination. At least I won't. I've learned in my life to be methodical and not to speak too much. Financial Stability Fund: It is the last day of the budget, everyone must hear it. On 31-12-2014, depreciation of shares by PASOK and New Democracy, 25,194.916,813 the loss. Can I say it again? 25,194,000, the depreciation of the shares from the 49,700 borrowed by the Greek people. We borrowed 49,700 to recapitalise the banks as a whole, returned 10.9 and at the same time before we returned, the governments had damaged the public sector by 25,2 billion. Will it become an investigation into what you're asking us to do now? We have too much to talk about. Twenty-five billion, PASOK. Do you know how much impairment took place in the first quarter of 2015 where, if you like, the 2/3 was a new government with election and ambiguity to the Greek people about what will happen and with one, if you like, questions on the market? Bank shares in the first quarter, up to 31-3-2015, fell by 4.9 billion. Would you like to compare this with the election period? We're 4,9 billion, 25.2 billion you. Do an examination of the state of the compensation, please, and suggest it. I want this examination to be proposed by the opposition, not by us. The truth, too, is - for those who do not know but we should inform ourselves - other articles have come out these days, especially from FIGARO in Paris - that, as I have analysed this whole tenth month in my speech, quantitative relaxation in Europe has not gone to the development of Europe at all. That was because there was no demand in Europe. There was a huge recession. The way in which Europe must move from now on is clear. Mr. Varoufakis has done a lot of work. Mr. Tsakalotos has done a very good job with Mr. Juliarakis. We are all trying to show a different way in which Europe must move, parallel to these programmes which in the medium term must be implemented, because we need to find a solution and a stability in that country. Since we have successfully passed the recapitalisation project, we should also note something very important here. I heard before my friend Koutsouko asking him to say 'thank you' because he reduced interest rates with the PSI from 16 billion - which was never 16, was around 14.5 billion, 14.7, anyway - to 5.8 billion, to 6 billion. Let's only congratulate this number. However, I would like you to congratulate the Greek Government tonight, which, instead of 16 years of your supposedly tiring, we 54 did it at thirty-and-a-half and three years since 2018, went to 32.5 years and from 4.25% of the interest rate, took it to 1%. Tonight I say congratulations for reducing interest and we'll see the PSI in the exam. The interest was actually reduced. How much have we reduced interest rates and lost the debt to a net present value by sending it, instead of three years, to thirty-two and instead of 4%, with 1%? Act, please, economists and prescribers. Here we have to say this: this government will implement this budget, it will support it. We should all support a national budget today and, if you wish, in the next twelve months, or, if you want, every four months here in the House, through the Finance Committee for its implementation, and why we do not bring more money, either from the Liechtenstein, Germany, the Lagard lists or whatever that government does, because the figures have come out. We did it because the previous government did not even make a hundred instalments. We do the hundreds of doses. We set billions and brought to the fund 765 million. There was one question and the answers came. It's in the Minutes of the House. We took a step, we did something. We helped the Greek economy. The Greek economy has had absolutely no help in the past five years. For the past five years the Greek economy has been destroyed for political reasons. And here we are not here to say congratulations to anyone, but when we say congratulations to someone we should say congratulations to the other. I'll say about the PSI and close. The budget will be voted on. It is our national responsibility to vote and our national responsibility to do better than we have budgeted and to bring better revenue and to help the Greek citizen in 2016 and to succeed end the following year, the principles of the aftermath, to get out of the market and get out of the memoranda. In closing to say that when we attack the President of the Republic and when we say we ran the PSI 100 billion euros, I will leave you here - I know, no one has learned to read - all the debt cards from 2010 to 2015 to find me in all the debt notes of the Ministry of Finance when the debt has been reduced by name with the PSI, how it increased in the next quarter. For we borrowed more than we did and left unarmed, as I proved last time with the classified document of the Royal Bank of Scotland, EUR 95 billion to get everyone paid at the full cost, and we should pay off the Greek fortune, the sweat of the Greek people, universities, insurance funds and banks by 38 billion euros. The banks 38 billion euros, 48 billion euros loan! The EUR 48 billion loan, 25 billion lost! So tell me who's doing things? I say again: EUR thirty-eight billion haircut! Remuneration of banks from PASOK. Loans of 49 billion euros to the Greek people. Of the EUR 49 billion we lost EUR 25.2 billion. Who's to blame, me? Is he going to be a probationary now? Are we going to do an exam now? Shall we do that exam? Let's get out of here. But if you do not want to examine, I would say here that I support not to go to the drachma, because people did well and went three years to thirty-two and 4% to 1%. Give congratulations once to the Greek people, a good one. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Cammene. Mr. Friend, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, the shadow of the economic crisis is getting heavy on education. In the five-year period of the memorandum public spending on education was reduced by 35.6%, and 30 000 teachers left and fewer recruitments were made - in the last two years, even zero - so that we have one of the oldest schools in the world. The OECD report this year records that four out of ten teachers, particularly in secondary education, are over fifty and even 1% less than thirty years old and 39% from forty to forty-nine. The Public Investment Programme for the creation of new infrastructure has been stumbled. The responsibility of the underfinanced local government for the repair of schools lies with them. Of course, teachers experience the consequences of reducing their earnings, often even under unwelcome conditions, such as those of anointed or surrogate to unwitting places. The effects of the fiscal crisis are also added to the effects of the general crisis, as in the school the struggles and deadlocks of households, which cause emotional tensions and additional learning difficulties for many children from poorer families are internalised. The images of the crisis include those of extreme poverty, such as the fainting of young students by malnutrition within the classroom. So we have been faced with acute problems that we inherited from previous years of the memoranda, but also problems created by the extreme neoliberal conception that began to apply before the crisis and challenged the right of all children to education, through ideologies that transform universal right into a prerogative of supposedly worthy. Despite budgetary coercion, this year we recruited twenty-two thousand sixteen sixteen alternate teachers in primary and secondary education, compared with eighteen thousand four hundred sixty-nine last year, that is four thousand forty-seven more substitutes than last year, an increase of 22.45%. In particular, record-time schools were recruited this year to 49.9% as a rate of increase. Since this year the institution of strengthening teaching has been restored. Immediately after Christmas, the reinforcement teaching classes, which are supposed to be directed to children from poorer social groups, are refunctioning. This is a measure of social policy which, especially in times of crisis, must be a constant concern for the state. As a result of the political choices of the first SYRIZA government with the return of available teachers and the creation of qualifi­cations that had been abolished, mainly for girls, the number of pupils and students in the second class of PESA increased this year by eight thousand. Another development involving mainly children from the poorest families. Currently a pilot project is under way for the quartet in schools in collaboration with the Ministry of Social Solidarity. It is about eleven thousand students and students studying in schools without a canteens, that is to say in schools where families cannot finance their daily money. This programme, which is being carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Solidarity, as I said, is planned to extend from September to more schools even by distributing meals. Finally, we open up the number of admissions to the Open University. With this measure, among other things, jobs are being created for many young doctoral holders. All these actions aim to create minimum conditions of decent and equal pay for children. We know it's not enough. It is, however, the principle of initiatives which will enhance the public interest in the further upgrading of public schools. For the first time after many years budget expenditure on education is stabilised to 2.8% of GDP. In recent years we have had a constant fall in education expenditure as a percentage of GDP. In the 2016 Public Investment Programme, more than EUR 590 million is available for 2016 than for 2015. Also, the funds for student care are not affected. Ladies and gentlemen, our central aim is to become, after many years of undeterminedness, the appointment of permanent teachers according to the course of public finances. We are planning the possibility of thousands of recruitments this year in order to stop the phenomenon of coverage of permanent gaps by substitutes with ESRB money. Depending on the course of public finances, thousands of recruits of permanent teachers will enable thousands of teachers recycled as substitutes in education, but also thousands of young graduates who end their studies in the heart of the crisis, with the range of unemployment and immigration, to live normality, to have job opportunities and offer in our country. Also, thousands of recruits restore an anomaly: the one that converts the NRP funds for the development of education in wage coverage funds. At this point I would like to stress that the tactics of restoring public commitment to education from the use of ESRB funds, namely the implied withdrawal of the state from its duty to support public education, are a symptom that existed before the economic crisis. It was even associated with dogmas according to which the school was treated as a potential business, with managers in the role of managers, subject to the dynasty of donor dynasty, that is, by reducing its dominant cultural role, transforming it into a training tool. No one denies the need for vocational apprenticeship and training. We are already preparing a new plan, which will respond to the need to link the ESDP to apprenticeship. But this need does not replace the necessary full-time education of children as far as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the consequences of neoliberal dogmatism are already evident in education, not only in our country but in all OECD countries. Reading the 2015 OECD report, one notes that the teaching potential in all OECD countries is ageing, consistent with the decline in the quality of education systems in the long term. In addition, public expenditure on education after the 2008 economic crisis, in particular between 2010 and 2012, decreased to a large extent to 1/3 of OECD countries. But other certainties, such as this, that the number of children per class does not substantially affect the teaching work, are demolished by the OECD itself, who now admits - or is forced to admit - that classes with more children lead to reduced teaching and learning time and more time to keep quiet in class. In the negative data from the OECD countries, it is also a reduction in the remuneration of teachers, which creates a risk of declining the level of new entrants. All of this will be evidence of the forthcoming assessment of the OECD report on Greek education, which will be carried out by a Committee of Experts, in order to reach conclusions in the coming months. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the reality that we have inherited and must go beyond the belief that the school of crisis must become a school of development, without haste, but with determination, without one-sided consent, without overlooking the different worthy approaches, but with consciousness that common places can be found between the political forces and the upgrading of education that undermines the common good of education, we are moving towards national and social dialogue. We are not seeking another debate between experts, far from society and education. We are not organising a process of legitimising previous decisions. We do not want to be involved with representatives, who often lead to a refractory mediation sometimes with a trademark. We are pursuing national and social dialogue through three parallel processes, with the aim of, without disapproaching, prioritising priorities and beginning to resolve, gradually, the key problems of education. The three parallel procedures are the Parliament's Committee on Education, the National Council for Education and the Committee on National and Social Dialogue. For the first time, the aim of the dialogue will not be to focus on universities, but to seek solutions from the bottom-up, from pre-school age, primary, secondary and tertiary education, including the search for a new way of access to universities, which will not be fast enough, because we do not want to create turmoil, as was the case in the past. At the heart of the dialogue it will be a new philosophy for the school: A school of cooperation and not insurmountable competition, a school of democracy, and not authoritarianism. A school that promotes critical thinking, creates and highlights skills, creates joy in children, restores social recognition of teachers, reduces the burden of care. A school that resists the temptation of primary school gymnastics will abolish the school-examination centre, limiting the tests for teaching time, changing and reducing matter, changing the books, giving the opportunity to study in depth. A school that will restore the humanity of education and support art in all concepts. A school that will spread the citizen of democracy with an enriched national identity in reference to European and global developments. We seek to have the whole of society and, in particular, teachers, a central role in this dialogue. Thanks to them, the effects of the economic crisis in schools have been filtered. Thanks to them, tens of thousands of immigrants joined our society, in the same strands, next door, with the Greeks. And it would be unfair to overevaluate negative behaviours of a limited portion of teachers or create social automation on the pretext of the specific working conditions of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, reform in education is a vision and work of many generations. Who does not remember the historical reform of Evangelos Papanoutsos who had caused the reaction of the conservative and reactionary forces of the time. And after the fall of the dictatorship, the Rally reform which somehow self-criticisingly for the Right restored the Papanoutsos reform, as well as the reforms of the first years of PASOK governance, which signed prophesying demands of the teaching and teaching movements. Since then, the concept of reform has been diagnosed. The intrusion of neoliberal ideology established a neo-language, such as that predicted by Orwell and the reform became synonymous with its refusal, namely, counter-reformation. Because the reform historically had a progressive mark. It aims and aims to restructure power relations for non-preferentials, make timeless changes and breaks with a vision of lasting democratic enlargement, everywhere. And that raises questions. The paradoxical logic that pushes modern societies, after a certain limit of development to destroy the most manipulatively acquired of modernity itself, as Jean-Claude Mislea pointed out in his well-known book "The education of immortality". This historic task of restoring the cut thread of reforms in education, through the creation of preconditions for a parallel programme, gradual changes and large volumes, to some extent proclaiming and finally following the country's progress from the development crisis, focusing on the citizen, this historic work of reform again, is the commitment of the Government to "for the first time left". It is the commitment to the great majority of the Greek people who experience the consequences of the dissolution of their social rights. It is a commitment to exist, which is why we call on all citizens to show confidence in public education, which can once again prove to be a mechanism for restoring social mobility and equality in an environment of great inequalities and dismantling middle and popular classes. Confidence in public school, i.e. trust in democracy, i.e. confidence in Europe on a path with social justice and a remarkable development that requires conscious and educated citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, trust in public school and again confidence in public school, which we promise to open in September from the first day, without the well-known problems of recent years. For this self-evident obligation we are already working in the Ministry of Education, moving forward to the necessary administrative and service changes, speeding up modernisation and restoring a climate of cooperation for educational bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, I say again: trust in the public school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 9th Kalamaria High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Nina Kasimatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this evening we are called upon to conclude the 2016 budget debate and vote on it. In attending this debate over the five days, I am impressed by the concept of Anti-Population that political costs are simply the loss of governance, perhaps the aftermath of resting at the chairs of Anti-Population or, in any case, easy criticism and no responsibility. After five years of crisis, I would expect the opposition to assume its responsibilities, especially on the question of insurance, because we all know how the funds reserves have been broken down since the 1990s and then we all know what the pensions are because of the laws that have been passed over the last five years of the crisis. Perhaps the only truth I have heard these days was - I think Mr Tassoulas said - that the first left budget was the 1982 budget and I am very pleased about this position, because I really have been through the demonization of post-multiple in relation to the outcome of the crisis and the end of the Memorandum regime. I really hope and urge you to do more ideological work and a political reflection, and I think it will help you to overcome the inner-party retreat that is agitating you. In any case, I will give some answers to what has been said about our budget, given that it is a budget for a left-wing government which is called upon to operate and govern in a Memorandum of Understanding. The 2016 budget does not have the same essential features or prescribes tough austerity policies that characterised all previous budgets of the crisis. As a cruel austerity, what happened in the past five years, where the financial adjustment for 2010-2014 amounted to a total of EUR 62.5 billion. In order to achieve the 2016 financial result, a total financial measure of EUR 2.5 billion will need to be taken from tax increases and EUR 1.8 billion from expenditure reductions. Overall, it is EUR 4.3 billion and I note it because I will use it below because I would like to remind you of something. Total expenditure remains at the same level, so we do not have that figure of cut back on expenditure that we had in all previous years of the crisis and led the economy to a deep recession. Also, in the context of this small, in relation to the past, fiscal adjustment for 2016, we have been reversing the downward trend in recent years in the Public Investment Programme, where since 2004, which was EUR 9.5 billion, we have had a continuous downward trend since then. This year, this year, this will increase by EUR 350 million and will reach a total of EUR 6.75 billion. This direction should continue in the years to come because the recovery of the economy without a programme for public investment does not seem to me to be possible. In addition, the reduction in expenditure relates to public expenditure by 287 million. And the sum to cover social needs of the state and the people is increased by 823 million euros, rationally distributed. Let us now answer the argument that the measures were unnecessarily, which was heard several times by the Ward of Anti-Population, that they are additional measures brought by the "bad" rule of SYRIZA - ANEL in the tenth month and prevented the arrival in "Eden" that you created. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, tell the Greek people and yourselves the truth. It is known that the fifth assessment of your previous programme did not close because the measures for 2015-2016 were not agreed. I want to read you something from the exhibition of the Research Centre of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Athens, which is not the Think Tank of SYRIZA, as you know. I read from page 17. ‘The total amount of the new financial package amounts to EUR 13,5 billion for the period 2013-2014 and to EUR 4 billion for 2015-2016. In this way, the current programme will close its fifth progress report." That's what EVEA said last year. Let me tell you another myth. You said we charged the country with a new EUR 90 billion loan. And I ask: after the theoretical closure of the fifth assessment - which never occurred - did you cover the country's financial needs for the next few years or have they been there waiting for us, or would the preventive line of credit arrive? In conclusion, I should like to make a few comments on the role played by the European agreements on national budgets, because that is what I think, as a responsible political staff, should concern us with and reflect on how the country can emerge from the crisis. The Greek budget, like all European budgets, is overdetermined by the deregulation and privatization of Anglo-Saxon neoliberalism and by Nord Liberalisme, by German liberalism of order and discipline, which, of course, excludes "SIEMENS", "VOLKSWAGEN", etc. The expectation of recovery according to this doctrine will restore confidence that, together with structural reforms, as they mean, will lead to a positive response of markets and investments by the private sector. The opposition of this doctrine is a fan, this policy adopted in previous years, because it was its ideology and it is its ideology, and indeed the Greek people were called upon to achieve and achieved a huge fiscal adjustment, as well as to be at the top of the list with adopted structural reforms, but with the well-known poor results. I'd like to ask you. Did the fall in unit labour cost make Greece more competitive? This is a structural reform, which I think has been incubated all this time, over the past five years. No, it hasn't. Neither increased our exports nor became more competitive. We in Berlin - which argues that the crisis can only be resolved if the people concerned are implementing austerity programmes - we do not accept it. We reject it. And that is why we have fought for smaller primary surpluses. That's why we're trying to change the relationship. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We must not, as a political system in the country, strengthen a Union direction, which aims at an imperialist ultimately expanding, this imperialist expansion which has financed the overthrows of regimes in the Middle East, the Arab Spring, etc. and which all together and, above all, the citizens of those countries with their blood are paying them. We are a country with an aggressive neighbour, Turkey. We are at the crossroads of this development, and I think that the future will be better for both our country and our people and for Europe itself, if we manage to reach agreement on the basics, namely that these programmes are not sustainable if the main parameters are not changed in the way EMU works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Cassimatis. The Minister of State, Mr. Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one year after the debate on the previous budget, we can and should consider where the country would have been if the political change that was confirmed had taken place both in January and in the last elections. And I say this because it is developing from the point of view of the Officerate, a critique of destructiveness, a criticism that leads to the fact that this government is the worst thing that has been through in recent years. So where would this country have been if this change had not been made? On December 9, 2014, one day after the announcement on the speeding up of the presidential election, Mr Samaras' government sends a letter to the Troika requesting approval of the famous credit line and within that letter it says that the Greek authorities expressly commit to doing everything necessary to complete the fifth assessment. The next day, the Commission in an information document says that the Greek authorities have unconditionally committed themselves to achieving the objectives of the primary surplus. What primary surpluses? It is the primary surpluses of 3% and 4.5%, which totalled 20 billion more than the primary surpluses agreed by this government. And if one considers the talent and targeting of the previous government in the unilateral cut in social spending, wages and pensions, one sees the reality of the low incomes in our country. Three months later, it turned out that the 2014 targets had not been captured and - as has certainly admitted a New Democracy official in this Chamber - the country was heading closely towards the posting of internal payments for March. So we have 20 billion more, free redundancies in the private sector, 1,100,000 natural and legal persons, without having regulated their public debts, no care for the people who are in extreme poverty, the abolition of the CSCE and so on. Outside of objectives, unprotected society, unprotected and first residence, that would be reality. And where are we going now? The European Central Bank's data on the economic situation of households in the euro area countries were published. What do they say about Greece? There is an increase of 4.8% in the actual available income of Greek households. In previous years, on average, 4% of the reduction annually was cut. This is what the European Central Bank says and not the Greek Ministry of Finance, not SYRIZA, not the Independent Greeks. For the closure of the banks, I want to make this reminder. There has been no New Democracy official who has been openly placed as to whether or not the partners chose those critical days not to accept the Greek Government's request for a short-day extension of the programme. They only criticized that the government threw the country on the rocks. So, good or badly, have the partners rejected in those critical days the request for a short-day extension of the programme so that people can go to the polls of the referendum without the blackmailing dilemmas? We have not heard that, we have not heard a clear answer. That's when the banks closed down some people were talking about a downturn of 4.3%. The year, apparently, will close with a slight recession. I would remind you that in the last issue of ECONOMIST there is a marginal increase in GDP of 0.2%. Even with little recession, you realize that the stability and the climate that this government has created to absorb the vibrations that some were supposed to be much stronger. October revenue: 700 million more than last year. In this budget, after years, we have increased spending on hospitals and a rapid increase in the social budget. Here, of course, we hear zero criticisms at all levels. 'Unsuccessful', he says, 'the government's final negotiation on the protection of first residence'. Ladies and gentlemen of Antipoliticism, if we agree that 31 December 2014 was changed the year at 24.00 a.m., then the protection of the first residence ended. So clear and simple. We received zero protection for the first home, the institutions came to the debate with us, after a while we went to 16%, considering that for themselves they are doing the wrong, and we reached 60% of the protection of the first home and the Greeks who have an income below 35,000 euros are protected in one way or another. Let us not talk about VAT in education. I don't know, but I imagine that all of us and all of you have seen one of the innumerable bulletins talking about the trick, about the strategic defeat, about various guests of television windows at that time, who were very insultingly talking about a choice, which we had jointly voted on - to recall - 23% of VAT. A crushing 23% defeat and 0%. What's going on here? I think some people see reality through the lens of their personal and private interests. Let us not forget what happened with the hundred doses, because we entered a negotiation and the first request from the institutions, who in the first period of governance considered the introduction of the measure to be unilateral, was to withdraw it as a whole. That measure is there. Is that a zero value too? A reference to insurance, ladies and gentlemen, which we will have the opportunity to discuss in the next few days. I think that only as an addiction to the logic of the successive cuts can one explain the attitude of Officer Opposition to the issue of insurance. Eleven waves of cutbacks have occurred in the insurance system, resulting in a rapid reduction in pensions, and for the first time we are seeking a broad front to change the model, to change the strategy, namely to increase resources from various sources, from contributions, from other sources, to support the level of pensions and we find a refusal. We will await them with great interest, but until the proposals are tabled, we have the right to assume that the positions of the Officerial Representation are the positions of the Institutions, as they were formulated in early July, and for which the Civic Repression protested in the streets of Athens, asking the Greek people to vote "yes" and to fully implement the zero deficit clause, the immediate abolition of the CSCE and a series of measures, which were precisely in the same logic as the minimum benefits of the State and the total withdrawal of the public from social security. So, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately that there has been political change and that government has managed to protect and protect the very poor people with the law on the humanitarian crisis and the low and middle incomes by regulating the hundreds of doses and the first housing for the people. And we will be able - and I believe - to defend the pensioners - even on our own, SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, if you do not consent - and their income and collective bargaining will be able to regain and move towards strong public debt negotiation. In other words, we will stop the disaster, as we said in the election and do not do - it does not make it easy for you at all - that you forget that elections have been held. Of course we had expectations. We did not do what we would have liked when we were in the position of governance in Genarris for the first time, but the radical difference of philosophy and approach with your own side is that what we have done we put it in the opinion of the people. And we put ourselves in the opinion of the people and our own, and the people have decided in repeated elections. Here I would like to say to you: it will be an easy mental experiment for you, to return to the easy downhill of the left parentheses scenarios. You have a strategic problem. You built yourself from 2012 onwards an idea that you are the party that will keep the country in Europe and that our party would take it out of Europe. That's over. He was misguided. So you urgently need to think of a very smart and important reason to explain it to the people, to convince you that it is needed, because the people have chosen what the party can keep it in Europe, what a party it gives the battles, what it can defend it and what it can create and trigger developments in Europe. And in that sense, I would like to refer to an issue that falls within my competence. I call on the New Democracy directly to work to have a National Broadcasting Council with legal composition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u177	It's been a month and a half, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u178	It's been a month and a half, Mr. Loverdo. We also hope for your consent, the law has been passed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u179	You had set two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u180	There is the Conference of Presidents. That is where everyone can prove what he has intentions. I think that there is no need for any party in this House to play the game of interests. It is not a good thing, and I repeat, the New Democracy should show too high responsibility. So we also have a national and international strategy which affects developments in a Europe that has begun to arouse the deadlocks of the policies of austerity, and in that sense we want once again to welcome the positions adopted by the French President on his visit and the fact that the Italian Prime Minister at the last stage of the negotiation openly supported the Greek positions and the fact that the Italian Government has made the proposal for a European unemployment allowance which can act as an automatic stabiliser and a mechanism for redistributing incomes within the Union. We should welcome the formation of a government in Portugal, involving the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party. It is a very important development. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We should also welcome the fact that both the European Left and the Socialists and even the Greens supported the Greek Prime Minister's proposal to involve the European Parliament in the evaluation and implementation of the Greek programme. All phases of implementation of the Greek programme - and this is our message in every direction - from now on will be in terms of transparency and not behind closed doors. They will all formulate their political positions. There are no more authorities. So this is our strategy, this is our way, this is the choice of the Greek people, and that is what we will take with determination to come for better days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u183	You're asking for a personal speech, because the show...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, as a parliamentarian, I have two things to say about what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u185	Mr Brutsis, on a personal point, I should like to give you the floor because other colleagues are ahead of us. Mr. Theocharis has said...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Theochari, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u187	Wait a minute, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Pappas, the Minister who came down just before the Step, continued on the well-known logic of left propaganda, misinforming, distorting and falsifying reality. It is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that the historian of the future will record as a great historical mistake for the Greek people, the change that took place in January. And because the truth is what is, unfortunately, the reality of all, which haunts the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u189	Since you do not like the people's judgment, you can change people, as Breech said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u190	I'm interrupted by the MPs, Mr. Chakaloto, okay, but you've been talking all day? Mr. President, protect me! What about ministers, Mr. Chakaloto? You've been talking all day! So I want to say this: unfortunately, for you, it haunts you a real document, e-mail Hardouvelis, which reflects the reality, Mr Papapa and which the Greek people say - to hear! - what all the Greek people, the Greeks, the unemployed, the retired, the vulnerable social groups, the weak, that if there had not been a change of government, no pensions would have been reduced, no wages would have been lowered, unemployment would have risen, all this great and painful package of measures would have no effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Brutsis, please be brief because we are now entering the argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u192	This is the great truth, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of change, which will be characterized by the history of the future as a great political mistake made by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u193	You're welcome. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u195	Minister, you have the floor and Mr Theocharis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u196	I accept from the Minister responsible for the budget, Mr Tsakalotos, a recommendation to propose to Mr Brutsi a change of people. Minister, that would be reasonable if we had only one vote. We cannot change elections every time we have European elections and referendums and elections again. The Greek people have taken a decision, and I think, Mr Brutsi, seriously speaking 100%, they have acted in terms of historical appreciation for both your own governance and the implementation of these programmes. I am one of those who believe - and I am curious about people within my party - that it is not necessary for the conservative party to match these policies. If you see historically, there were indeed times and times when conservative parties were in favour of public intervention and understood the asymmetry, inconsistencies and problems posed by free markets. Unfortunately, we are not in this historic phase. And I would recommend to you - it is not my job - that you take this into account in your internal-party dialogue, which, unfortunately, is very poor for the Greek political system and to think about whether it has contributed to the fact that your party has three successive electoral defeats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u197	Four!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard Mr Pappas explain to us the strategic advantage of SYRIZA through VAT on education, which he has put back into. That's a great strategic move! I recommend that he hear my speech, read it from the Practicals on the SYRIZA train that started when you were taken by Mr. Desir, the ear that you put VAT on the calf and ended up in the OPAP, asking for 1 billion behind privatisation because you have caused him damage to his business model. We have also heard Mr Friends - and Mr Friends has told us very well - about the real problems of children who do not have to eat, the poor, the weak and the unemployed. We are talking - precisely because you have these problems - a budget which cuts costs or keeps them stable in health, in education, in culture, which puts taxes and cuts pensions but not austerity, as Mrs Kasimatis said earlier. That's not an austerity! And how is it possible to read in the 'Organizational Theme' that, for a trip to the YESEA, it gave 120 million to the 'BOEING' for ten Sunuks flying in Afghanistan? That's what you're up to in your conscience. How do you get them together? Is that the cost of Mr. Kerry's visit or his statements? Is that it, ladies and gentlemen? Is that how you're going to solve unemployment problems? [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm not going to call you SYRIZA government again - ANEL. I'll call you Lockheed Martin - Boeing. That's what you are! Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u200	What do you think? We're scared!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u201	Direct awards of six hundred million directly at this time, at the moment when you are cutting costs. It hurts you, because criticism is from your conscience, it's not from me! Yesterday we talked about the bank scandal, and Mr. Chakalotos urged us to apologize. He also said that he did not request an examination for the sale of Eurobank’s shares. He forgets, of course, he's SYRIZA's Minister of Finance, who asked for it. He forgets that, as a Member of Parliament, before the summer, he voted for the committee of inquiry dealing with the memoranda and the recapitalisation of the banks. So Mr Chakalotos did not ask for the examination, he just voted for it. With such lies you alienate your voters, those who hide, those who have stopped saying they have voted SYRIZA. So big is your strategic advantage. Chicken voters we've seen before. Ultrasound Minister, this is the first time! Then, with 300% increase in that recapitalisation, we could, even though difficult, take out the mess - very difficult, but not unthinkable. Today, we want 4,200%, ladies and gentlemen, to make the money we have lost! Not even in the movies. But let us revert to the history of the banking system in our country, because it is the history of the Greek interlocutory since the '60s. First period: by 1981 you should have known someone in government, barbas in Koroni, or junta relationship, so that you could get a loan. Banks and parties were one thing and they were sharing sea loans or real loans. Period two: PASOK - extension of model. Without edges in the party, you didn't see a haircut. Let us not talk about the CAP - you are saying it - or the leading inter-political, banking and media scandal - the Koskota scandal. State and private banks in the same trick. The bubble would blow. The euro, however, has given us an extension. And the expansion of loans - consumer, housing. Banks, lending based on undeclared income, made money laundering. In housing, "BLACKROCK" tells us that since EUR 65 billion of the EUR 26 billion had been disbursed over 90% of the value of the property. Criminal. Three blows, because the Greek people have to understand them, they came to finish them. The PSI cost 38 billion euros to the banks, since they had pressed before to buy the Greek State bonds. Katseli law helped more people than those who are suffering. And finally, the 'I'm not paying' movement that SYRIZA had made a flag, created expectations of debt write-off. The banks were clinically dead. Thus, 50 billion euros were given to eradicate the damage. It wasn't the bad bank, and the damage didn't disappear quickly. We closed the banks at multiple cost. And you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, continued the same policy with Panhellenic. He wanted 169 million euros. We paid 400 million euros. Probank paid 800m euros, while it needed 230m euros and 150m had been found by the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u202	Who paid for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u203	The Greek people. He's paying for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u204	Who decided? We made up our minds?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u205	You decided on Panhellenic. You, the Minister of Finance. So they closed down and went to the Bank of Greece and lost track of them. The EUR 8 billion Rural, the Post Office of EUR 4.5 billion and Proton of EUR 2 billion together collected the four systemic banks and Attica. In 2014, we caught the bottom. At last, we saw some light. Red loans: EUR 70-80 billion, deposits: EUR 180 billion, ELA: an increase in GDP. And SYRIZA came to finish the crime. Red loans: EUR 110 billion officially and EUR 130 billion informally. Deposits: EUR 125 billion. ELA: EUR 80 billion. And from the top of a recession. Draghi has reached the point of recommending that Mr. Varoufakis does not make statements that jeopardise bank stability. Destruction of the economy, capital controls, banks need EUR 15 billion - EUR 15 billion in SYRIZA. We come to the present process that you and the banks have chosen. Mr. Draghi told us. Did you once again leave the loans in the old banks, possibly making a new recapitalisation - to engage in their management? You are delaying the negotiation, Piraeus catchs you in your sleep and with the book building that she made on November 4th, you run and you don't get a chance. You are, of course, cherishing it with the lies about 'the victim of your own success', as the Minister said. The success was that he didn't understand how the process started from Piraeus. Is there a victim? Yes, the Greek people. You exclude 58 billion bonds due to public interest and 14 billion for deferred tax. Indeed. But you do not exclude the 2.3 billion shares that Mr Chakalotos told us yesterday. Why wasn't they excluded? The exceptions to the other, 58 and 14, were because if they go in to save the banks, they will still be paid by the taxpayer. But does that not apply to preference shares? So why did you leave out these 72 billion dollars and not put the 2.3 billion? Questions are relentless. Why book building and not a consolidated book value process? Because you're late in the negotiations. You told us - that is what Mr Drasakis said in a non paper at the time - that the fifty days are not enough, and in 2014 in Eurobank the process of integrated accounting took twenty-five days. So you lied to us. You chose it because the funds told you that with the destruction of the economy you brought would not accept higher prices than those. They wouldn't make money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They had the pigeon, and you danced for a party. That's what you danced, what the funds told you. Why wasn't there a minimum selling price, reserve price? Same reason. On 2 December Mr Stathakis in the House, in reply to a question from Mrs Karakosta, said that if the government had set a minimum price on the bank's equity values, it would have avoided the losses suffered by the public and the old private shareholders. Chefette! You cut the bids under 100,000 euros. So you got lower prices than you could. However, the National Bank has easily found 300 million of these offers in ex-post. Therefore, more money could be found from the private sector and not needing this money to go to debt. Mostly, however, you'd get better prices. You're glad that the privileged shares aren't so tired. We are, of course, waiting for the ministerial decision on Monday, which will say 70% haircut on the privileged shares of the national. But let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u206	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u207	I will end in a minute, Mr President. Better be glad to collect 12% coupon, not collected since 2013. With the n. 4340 have enabled the Financial Stability Fund to accept the price. With the n. 4346 you forced the Financial Stability Fund to accept it, twenty days later. Why? What does Rothschild's report say about fair price? The information I've crossed is that he doesn't mention anything about a fair price. There's no appreciation. I've applied for a document, and I'm waiting. So why have you forced the Financial Stability Fund to accept any price without a threshold? Why did you tie the hands of the Greek State? The administration of the Financial Stability Fund is afraid of responsibility. But then it must be paid as a civil servant who is afraid of responsibility. Getting the Secretary-General's maximum salary, EUR 4.650 a month, not a hundred and two hundred thousand euros, so he won't accept any responsibility. If Mr. Michel, who was rejected by SSM, to join the National Bank, and who made him a shareholder of the National Bank by putting him in the administration of the Financial Stability Fund, he cannot withstand the responsibilities, resign rather than get the Minister to bring obligation and not take responsibilities. So either take his paperwork wage, as it is, or resign. If the Minister doesn't give him up, take responsibility and resign himself. So you passed a law to cover your best friend, and sent the account to the Greek people. First-sized scandal, your scandal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mr Theochari. Mr. Beyalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are almost at the end of the five-day debate on the budget, a debate which has evolved, I think, very smoothly and preceded by the four meetings of the committee. And we are talking about a budget, which is the first of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which was created by the end of 2015, a difficult year in which we had the change of government in Genarris, with all these incredible situations that were created, where you were terrorizing citizens, with the media terrorising all of us every day and you to be pleased that earthquakes, infections and oppression will occur. Finally we arrived at the end of 2015, after a referendum, where we also lived in those incredible situations, but also an election battle in September, which again this people who want to change it once, twice, three times, again did the SYRIZA government on 20 September. Ultimately, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you have proved yourself to be a bad maniac, because the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is here. He is tabling and voting for the budget tonight, a budget, which, through the difficult circumstances that have happened, is difficult as we have said, but at the same time is honest. It is true that in these nine meetings, four committee meetings and five in plenary, only two colleagues dared to mention and say that they would not be executed. Everyone else might have said anything but that. This is an important element, which we need to see quite seriously. Because the budget has been made with much conservative estimates, what we hope is that its implementation will be much more positive. In these nine meetings, however, we saw the following features, which I as a new Member of Parliament, two months, made me a bad impression, I would say: Being here in the temple of democracy, one expects to hear the word and the adversary, the opinion and the counter-proposal. But instead, what did we hear all these days? Unacceptable expressions, extremes, behaviors and reasons that came out of the arrogance and arrogance of people who are years of parliamentary representatives of our people, to show disrespect to institutions, to the person of the Prime Minister, to the government, but also to the parliamentary group that supports this government. Ladies and gentlemen, this disrespect is double and multiple disrespect to the people's decision, because the people have chosen this government. It is ultimately disrespectful to democracy. Instead of listening to proposals, what you should normally say to us - if you were the government, what you would do - you found nothing to say about that, because you would simply make a much worse budget, if you anticipate a surplus of 4.5 billion euros. No proposal at least in a code, for one cost, for an income. None, but no suggestion. That means a lot. You are simply speaking in general and vaguely that the budget is not of a development nature or increasing taxes. Quarterly answers and words. And when we talk about increasing taxes the total amount of a tax has also seen the redistribution of the burdens that the budget expressly says in it and that is where the targeting of our government will be. And to say something that should be pointed out, because a lot of talk has been done about it. It is a report by the OECD, which says that the tax burden in Greece increased in 2014 by one and a half percentage points and reached 35.9% of GDP from 34.4% in 2013. Also, in the period 2007-2014, the tax burden increased in Greece by 4.7 percentage points, from 31.2% to 35.9% of GDP, the largest increase in all OECD countries. So, gentlemen, and on many other issues, I will bring back to your memory an expression that has been said in this Chamber a long time ago: "The house of the hanged man is not talking about rope!" We have heard these days that we do not have a plan, but at the same time we hear from colleagues in the Representation that the budget is one of the same and they do not vote for it. But since it's one of the same as the previous ones, your people, why don't you vote for him today? And since you do not vote for him today, why did you vote for your own "one of the same"? All this, ladies and gentlemen, is to justify what you cannot justify. You have insulted us because we have not anticipated revenue from the Lagard list, tax evasion and smuggling within the budget. But we said it was a real budget. It is expenditure which, if it is collected at the request of this government, wants to hit both tax evasion and tax evasion, but also with all the other lists it will clarify, will be a plus in the implementation of the budget. It has also been heard, and I would like to comment on it, because it has affected me very much. It has been mentioned by a colleague from the Opposition that we, our government, are people not to say what, because the balls will be misunderstood! And I answer: If you are wrong, gentlemen, it is your problem, it is not ours. We operate in this government in the interests of this people. You say we ask for a consensus. I said it at the beginning: The temple of democracy has the word and the adversary. It has the proposal and the counterproposal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. A counter-proposal, unfortunately, has not been heard. And to talk about something, which is completely false. Two colleagues have said that, he says, thirty-five members of the SYRIZA were registered and did not speak. I asked the Secretariat for the information and it gave me the following information: Sixty-eight Members of the SYRIZA signed, sixty-five and three spoke, who were going to speak in the past few days, did not speak of their personal reasons. The same way that the three who have been deleted are making them thirty-five, so even the figures of the budget from the real things they are, you turn them into them and you do them as you wish. Why are you lying and provoking a situation and an effort that has a future and will have a future for several years! I would like to make another point about the banks: you have not told us all about the banks. Sea loans and red loans are the ones that have created this situation. We forget that in 2009 individual savings were 280 billion and fell to 160 billion in 2014. Who were they who took them? Some of the ministers of the then government? They were, too. Wasn't they, who were urging people to take their statements after 2014, if SYRIZA comes out? That was them and we know them! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] To clarify the issue of banks: in the 120 billion deposits in 2014, we had 100 billion red loans. That was the ratio of loans to deposits, and those who are economists understand it better. We also had 120 billion more loans securitised and pledged to the European Central Bank. What banks of value are you talking about? What was the value of the banks in 2014? Zero! The papers were only on a magnetic record on the server. That's it, gentlemen! You are saying that we are opposed and something else I would like to point out and I shall close with that, Mr President. You hear the same speaker say: 'Go away from the government' and on the other hand, closing, saying: 'Would you rule, yes or no?'. Finally, gentlemen, make up your mind. Do you want us to leave or rule? However, when we leave the people will decide at the end of the four-year period. And be sure that at the end of the four-year period it will give SYRIZA the opportunity to rule another four years! As for how we're going to rule, that's our case. We will rule with our worldview, gentlemen of counter-population, and not with your own status that failed. We will rule in our own worthy code! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you this: I hear these two months in all the bills that your dignity and your ability is what it has done everything and we have this wonderful country in 2014 and that our inability and that we cannot function, as a result we cannot govern the country properly. Your dignity and ability led us to bankruptcy, led us to what all the people know. We, ladies and gentlemen, will see the results at the end of the four-year period. The people have chosen us. We're amateurs of politics. You, as professionals, saw the results you had.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Beyla, please, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u211	I shall conclude, Mr President. We, as amateurs, will function in the interests of the people, because we are lovers of citizens' supply and service, and that is what we are going to do. Be well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-five students and students and four teachers attending from the 1st Preveza High School. We welcome you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Karras has the floor for three minutes, and then Minister Stathakis. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much. I will make a summary of the discussions over the last few days. Well: Numbers heard, predictions heard, comparisons heard. What happened? That this budget is static. In what sense? It did not feel that it had that development dimension that would be required to relaunch not only the economy but also the country in general. I will give two, three points, which I think are of some importance. In the summer, in August, the financial aid contract and the country's funding agreement were signed from all sides of the House, as far as I know from the government today, and from the Civilian Representation and other opposition parties. What did this deal impose? To cooperate, consult and move on to the country. Today, then, we see that the budget debate is being constrained. And what's the result? The result is what Mrs Fotou said earlier and Mr. Friends said, that there is an attempt in the country to give the schools lunch, their breakfast, to give the british. But is this the proud Greek people waiting, gentlemen? What we are all waiting for today is consultation, which does not come, aid to the world, which is falling and suffering, and forget all the previous things that have happened. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved even with the budget debate and is still thinking about why this quarrel, why all that Greece lives today? Why? He pays for the decade of PASOK, the New Democracy, the PASOK again. What? Pays the lifestyle, pays the state's living policy with loan. In order to overcome this, then, we in the Central Association call for a single thing, that there should be consultation between the two major parties, so that the country can move forward. Otherwise they are fenacas, they are fruitful hopes and all the other things we have heard today cannot be applied, because the Greek people - unfortunately - tend to get poor. It's something we don't want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Stathakis, Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot avoid the temptation to answer the 'MEGA' lies of the day that I hold thirty-seven real estates and houses. I speeded up and some very nice tweets, like how I keep the keys of forty so many houses. It's a question. For those who have not seen the "Keydocrats" to say it is a really excellent and timely project. There was a harder tweet: "Stathakis forgets everything except Alzheimer's!" I found this a little harder. I would not try to restore the truth if the New Democracy did not have this "MEGA" lie and politically speaking. And I repeat: it is well known that journalists, journalists, do not cross-check evidence. They're getting a tip and reproducing it as it is. But today, I have to correct this "MEGA" lie by submitting the data to the House. It is personal data, but I have to do it for the sake of the restoration of the truth. As George Stathakis, I have four properties. I've had so much. Three of legacy - my Chania friends know - a apartment, a shop and a country house and an apartment in Athens 50% - 50% with the wife. Four. Four are four. It is neither thirty-four nor forty-four nor anything else! I put it in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] My wife has thirty so many parcels of legacy in the courts in the mountains - I don't know the areas - Corinthia and mountainous Arcadia. They have a 3% share of them. I've got the whole list. These parcels that are in the courts from 2004 until today have become real estate during the “MEGA” lie and have become homes! Let me present them to the House - I will read to you the HISPIA that we are paying for these thirty-seven'movable' - parcels. Starting from the end: 0.34 minutes, 0.28 minutes, 0.30 minutes, 0.11 minutes, 0.27 minutes, 0.33 minutes, 1.92 minutes, 0.08 minutes, 0.22 minutes, 0.26 minutes, 0.26 minutes, 0.26 minutes, 0.66 minutes, 0.19 minutes, 0.05 minutes, 0.29 minutes, 0.54 minutes, 0.27 minutes, 2.04 minutes, 0.10 minutes, 0.18 minutes. Do I bore you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u216	Say the whole thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u217	Oh, no. Can I go on? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm presenting my wife's ENPY for the record. [[At this point, the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I imagine tomorrow the central news in the 'MEGA Events' newsletter: 'EUR 37 is HIS for the thirty-seven properties of Stathakis!' I did not say that in 2012, the second category, firstly, because I did not know if I had to say it because it is in the courts, it is irrelevant. I declared them in 2013, 2014 and in the additional statement. That's the truth. I repeat that I would neither rectify it nor bother to correct this inappropriateness, the great lie, if the New Democracy were not able to do so in order to attack us on moral and left. He can blame us for what New Democracy wants. I imagine that in the last three years everyone has searched everything for this strange SYRIZA party, politicians, its generation, its executives, his people. They haven't found anything, the slightest flaw. And if they are held up by such rabies attacks on a man, to me, who I have received - thank God - bowls - it is the fourth round now - I assure them for the multitude that I belong to an esteemed family, that he is active in shipping for eighty years, that he is a family who knows too many people from New Democracy, that the honorary President of New Democracy has made successive statements for my family and for me, and I am really ashamed that some people in New Democracy are going through a way to politicize or seek moral issues in a person, in a place, in a process that is unambiguously clean...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Minister, who are they fleeing from the New Democracy? Their names, can you tell us? Because we've heard the incredible...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Brutsi, I heard you yesterday in your speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u220	You!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Brutsi, please! Minister, if you'll excuse me for a moment. Mr. Brutsi, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u222	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u223	You'll answer as long as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u224	Please don't interrupt. That's not right. What are these things? Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u225	I return to the subject of the agenda and we can open a dialogue as much as you want on this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u226	Keep going, please, not dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u227	But my advice is simple and clear. You must protect political life from such smuggling, lies and cannibalisms that have no status. I return to the budget and to the issues relating to the government's strategy under the circumstances. To repeat the 'roadmap' with headlines. The government has drawn up a strategy within the framework of the agreement and beyond the agreement. In the context of the agreement, we are called upon to complete three key points by Christmas. I would remind you that the first is to close the forty-eight-demand cycle. The circle of forty-eight prerequisites is closed. Secondly, complete the recapitalisation of the banks. The banks were recapitalised earlier, in our opinion. The reason why it is considered a success is self-evident and obvious. The procedure had been decided, it was a given one. The European Central Bank shall reflect the need for the banks' capital needs. An invitation shall be invited to cover as much as possible from private individuals and the Financial Stability Fund and the public shall intervene in supplementing it. I would remind you that in July the agreement provided for 25 billion, as well as that the printing made a month ago by the European Central Bank was for 14 billion. It is absolutely good that funds have been attracted that have limited public participation to 5.5 billion. So it closes the second pivotal point. The third key point is the first assessment. This procedure will be closed in due course. The next week is the debate on this. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] The fourth focal point is the budget, a realistic budget, compatible with data and which incorporates as far as possible the redistributive needs of our government, the stability in budget implementation and the possibility of maximising if possible in this budget the achievement of the mild budgetary objectives that we have agreed with the partners. The next point, which must not be missed, concerns the targets as agreed for 2015, 2016 and 2017. And I must point out here that the fact that the recession of the Greek economy in 2015 - a year with the known difficulties - tends to close well below 1% if anything suggests the government's success in the way it faced capital controls and calmed down all the constraints in critical sectors of the economy, namely that in tourism, exports, imports, shipping and many other sectors there were measures that did not interfere with their normal functioning. And the second good thing we need to underline is the positive response of the real economy, at least some key sectors, such as the rise in processing by 4.5% in the second half of 2015. With this data and an excellent year of tourism, we managed to limit the recession to the limit point that I mentioned to you, which, if anything, prescribes an easier process, so that in 2016 we can return to a positive sign earlier than we had initially calculated, that is, instead of the second semester, in the first half. Let me mention two points for growth, since my time is running out. Firstly, the government has so far managed to maximise the funds available from the Structural Funds, with the closure of the old programme and with the launch of the new one. Secondly, we are now in the preliminary and final stage of a development law, which has closed a large circle of consultation with a hundred and twenty institutions from all over Greece - Northern Greece, Athens and everywhere - and has formed a framework of a development law very different from the previous one, but much more compatible with the objectives we have for focusing on high-value activities, productive and comparative advantages that will intensify the extroversion of the Greek economy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The prospect is ahead of us. I think that at the moment the government is taking firm steps towards a roadmap, which, if anything, guarantees security and, at the same time, a return to growth, with strong doses of social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u229	No, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u230	Why, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u231	I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u232	He said something on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u233	Don't keep talking. You spoke exactly ten minutes ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u234	I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u235	I know that and you will hear what I will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u236	The Minister has been put on the table for decency and cannibalism for the New Democracy, and I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u237	Cannibalism?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u238	He didn't say anything about cannibalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u239	It will take three minutes, anyway, to speak with the parliamentary representatives, and Mr Loverdos now, and you and Mr Pafilis, because you have asked for it and there to say what you want. I want to say something else, for everyone else's knowledge. Most of you are older than me, at least from parliamentarians. On the last day the parties' leaders have spoken, they incorporate their answers to all the issues, in a lot of time they have. It is not right, therefore, that there should be dubbing by parliamentary representatives who have already made their speeches in the last three days. In this sense, I repeat that, as we have given Mr Karras the floor, you will be given three minutes to note some things, because you have been here this three-day period. But that is not the exercise of a right, one hour before the political leaders speak. It is an economy of debate. That's what this is about. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. Please respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking in a peculiar way about the budget, ladies and gentlemen. Fewer majority MPs, from every other time, were willing to take the floor and see the statistics. Instead, many more ministers have been given the floor for too long and especially on the last day. Their right. There is a reason and a point. That's right. And in the words of the ministers, you are listening more to the government's programme statements of confidence than to the budget. And when they refer to numbers, they refer to good intentions and intentions. It is the 'first time' government that already has 11 months not to control the matter, to hide from it and to tell us how good it is. The 200 million to the hospitals, which will leave the insurance funds, is the photo and proof of my argument. If we had the margin, ladies and gentlemen, to say again what we have said for four days on the social budget, you would understand how right I am in what I am saying to you. But we do not have that margin. I've been triangulating for three minutes. I would, however, invoke to the Finance Minister an element that was heard yesterday, but which was not noticed and which concerns many of the majority Members who speak of the PSI of 2012, a number that Mr Tsakalotos gave in reply to Mr Venizelos's question. Ladies and gentlemen, between 2009 and 2015 from the state to the insurance funds came EUR 104.5 billion. The cost of the insurance funds from the PSI was 13 billion, insurance funds to a state, not like now that took place elsewhere. The advice to rebuild Greek public bonds brought the IKA with a surplus. Other insurance funds didn't do it, they were afraid of it. Anyone who heard the advice of that government has a portfolio bigger than what he had before the PSI. That's not to say what we want. Because we have said this on the Committee of Inquiry while it was working, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and I address myself to a colleague from the Independent Greeks: are we talking about an examination, or did Mr Kammenos say so? We have said ten times here and to you, Mr President, that the examination of the PSI and the recapitalisations should continue, including, of course, the third memorandum and the present recapitalisation. Mr. Stathakis came down from Step. He's the Minister of Development. He said his stuff. That's his right. But he did not say what he was in debt with development. Five days here from those ministers who spoke, I did not hear one, other than Mr Marda, who was implied, talking about the meeting of the economy with the state, a very unpleasant meeting, where the previous governments really owe and which you were supposed to bring some changes. Eleven months you've been adding signatures, you haven't even lifted a bureaucratic barrier to the economy. Those involved in business claim that it does not come out of one spot after another. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to say to Mr Papapa. He's not a propaganda minister. He's a Minister of Burdouche of the Right by mistake, of accuracy by inaccuracy. I asked him - I called him in good faith - this: when we passed the Media Act, colleagues, on 24 October, he brought a deadly provision for the independent authorities. It's voted. You remember our own objections and the corrections he made. He said - and supplemented his order - that in two months' time the independent authorities will have administrations, they will have been completed. There is also the barrier of the 4/5 of the Conference, Mr President. It's been a month and a half. There's 15 days left. Will it be an attempt to reach consensus or blackmail? Mr President, you must also see this as your own obligation, as soon as possible, but as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u242	I'm closing in one last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u243	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, there is a good precedent in this debate over the last five days. Well, we've got to talk about it. There have been issues that have been heard, responded, done secondary, dialogue has taken place. The diligent Member and the observer have evidence to judge who has and who is not right. Yesterday there was a debate which gave me an impression, because it concerns a matter that I do not have, I am trying to find out, about the recapitalisation of the banks. He asked you a question from another colleague from another party, Mr Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Loverdo, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u246	I'm closed, I'm closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u247	Oh, no. You're closed, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u248	It's a mistake not to let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u250	No, Mr President, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u251	Please, too! Maybe we'll make mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u252	I'm in three minutes and thirteen seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u253	No, three and thirteen is because I pressed it a minute ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u254	I shall finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u255	You'll be done whenever you have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u256	An answer. You told him you'd either apologize or bring some evidence today about... Talk and you didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u257	I'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u258	As a curator, I am waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u259	Thank you. Mr. Brutsis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u260	The Minister, Mr Stathakis, who pointed out to the New Democracy mainly or more politically, Mr Minister, that we should be prosperous and not tangle. Personally, I myself yesterday from a Step of Parliament was placed on what Mrs Gerovas, the Government representative, who was asked by a television channel about what is happening to you - and I will say what is happening - and said that there is nothing wrong, the investigation is being conducted and when the investigation is completed, we will see it. I said that I agreed, 'but'. But there is a great 'but', Mr Stathakis. Firstly, did the New Democracy raise the issue, or did Mr. Bordenos, yours, who went to the journalists and said the Commission's conclusion 'from now on'? Unless you think that Mr. Bored belongs to the New Democracy or that the Committee of Inquiry is controlled by the New Democracy! But I'm over it to get to the point. Look, some seriousness and responsibility don't hurt. I would remind you that, by election, you played a whole game against the New Democracy with an irresponsible issue, which was not and was not the case, the investigation that you are now asking for, concerning Mr Papastavrous, to be carried out. You made it an election spot, put Mr. Papastavrou next to Mr. Meimarakis, next to Mr. Samaras, and smashed the New Democracy invoked the moral alibi of the Left. That's who you are! But we're not the same. Are you going to apologize or are there any other measures and stations? Another yours, another Mr. Papastaurou? [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Do you see how superior we are, Mr Stathakis, and how decent and who are they finally channelling? I shall now refer to budgetary issues. I'll say a few things as the budget closes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u261	You've got a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u262	I would like to say, Mr President, on behalf of the New Democracy, that the situation has been brought about. They spoke sixty-five of the seventy-five Members, with decency, morality, criticizing public dialogue. That was a participation we never had. This shows both the New Democracy spear and its honesty... [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Reduce arrogance, gentlemen of SYRIZA. It's time to shoot...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u263	You laughed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Brutsi, don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u265	...as society incorporates the lies you have told. You're about to collect them on polling level. And when this thermometer gets up and it won't be turned, then I'll see you. [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Mr President, I just want to say a few words about the budget. The Greek people are listening. Today, with the presentation of the budget, the number and signature of the SYRIZA confirms that there is not a single Greek pensioner, unemployed, weak, vulnerable team, payroll, who says that he is in a better fate than he was last year. That's the big difference. Search SYRIZA voters. Ask a SYRIZA voter and if you find one, come here and apologize. This is the big difference between yesterday and today. Unfortunately, 2016 issues are even more painful. All this was unnecessarily and should not be done, because all the painful measures could have been avoided if the demagogue and populism of SYRIZA did not prevail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u266	Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u267	I'm gonna need just one minute, because I spoke twenty-one minutes, twelve minutes, six and three -- I'm entitled to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u268	Okay. Others talked a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u269	...and I don't want to repeat this mess, which happens all the time. Anyway, anyone can judge. I just want to make one comment for a minute. Those who do not have political arguments or those who do not have strategies and other kinds of disagreements choose the so-called yellowism. We've lived him all the years in here. We are, however, not one of those who make such a policy. Never, just to say it perfectly. I would like to say something to everyone else, whether from here or where they are protesting. There is the proverb "whoever pees at sea finds it in salt". All of you have been using them from time to time. The Greek people can therefore draw conclusions on the high level - within or outside of the introductory - confrontation that is taking place. We will continue to make political and ideological confrontation with arguments and will never fall to that level of humiliation. And that's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Vangellis Meimarakis, former President of Parliament, has the floor. Here comes Mr. Michalo. Here, Mr Meimarakis, you have the floor for ten minutes or at any rate with one tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government is now asking Parliament to vote on the budget, the first so-called left budget. I don't know if Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. SYRIZA, the ANELs, believe that this budget can come out, because I know, as we all know and you know, that it doesn't come out. I know the economy can't stand him, but society can't stand him most of all. But we know one more thing. We know that Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA were finally based on lies. They relied on myths, and myths collapse. They relied on a political fraud, and fraud is revealed. And that is from the next election. That's what's going on with the bills you brought up to today. This is done above all with the budget. That is why we are asking: is there any sign of political consistency, social sensitivity in this budget? Is there even one of the promises that you made in an election campaign? So let's just finish with the lies. There are two elements which characterise the budget: taxes and cuts. Retirement cuts and social benefits. New taxes everywhere. Taxes on Greek production and especially on farmers, taxes on the islands, taxes on households, which disproportionately affect the financially weaker people, for whom you are allegedly being cut. VAT has increased in food and first-time goods. VAT has been increased on some islands to increase now on all islands. The contribution of social solidarity has increased. The tax on incomes of legal persons has increased. The premium tax is increasing. The tax on rent income is increasing. The advance payment of income tax to legal persons, professionals, farmers and farmers is increasing. Of course, in addition, both the rates of income tax and their contributions to the OGA are increasing for our farmers. This budget receives from the farmers an additional 102 million for the OGA, an additional 79 million from the tax advance increase and an additional 32 million from the increase in the income tax rate. Apart from this, both traffic charges and ticket prices are increasing in urban transport. From the 'I don't pay' that you've come up with 'pay more to go ahead'. Moreover, on the basis of the budget, it appears that the refund of excise duty on oil for agricultural use is gradually being phased out. The deduction for the one-off payment of income tax is abolished. Exemptions from HISPIA are also abolished. Overall, that is, the new measures for the period 2015-2016, as has already been said, amount to 5.7 billion. The euro. The new taxes amount to ECU 3.2 billion. The new pension cuts for 2016 amount to EUR 1.7 billion, and the new pension cuts for 2016 alone amount to EUR 1.7 billion. The euro. SYRIZA, I mean, has mutated. It became the neoliberal analgesic left. He understands it now and every citizen feels it. Is it true, anyone today who compares December 2104 to December 2015 and thinks he's going through better, optimizes? That is why this budget will remain as the document that breaks down the myths of decades, the document that proves the fraud you have set up, SYRIZA and ANEL. It also proves that Mr. Tsipras, as we were saying at the time, was in a hurry to take the election to deceive. She was raped because she wanted elections before the IRS accounts came, which deliberately deferred them. He wanted elections before he started implementing the policy that he was hiding, as we told you. He wanted polls to start voting more painful laws for new taxes, new cuts for auctioning of a hundred doses. But the budget also proves something else. It proves you've become more troika than the troika. It shows that the memorandum you signed, as we told you, had hidden tails, that it was cheating on the world, that everything we said is confirmed and proved now in the polls. Is it or is it not true that when we voted on the agreement on 14-15 August, you told us that the new measures that will come will have social consequences, that they will have social justice? Now what are you doing? At first you passed a law that would provide EUR 200 million for the humanitarian crisis. You did 100 million. Plan and reduce them. In addition, you are cutting off our fellow citizens the heating oil allowance, 105 million euros. You're cutting off the ESS, 220 million. You're cutting off the pensions for over 2 billion. You have already cut over 400 million of the basic pensions and supplementary pensions. And don't stop here, go on. You have written in the budget, only for 2016, pension cuts of 1,7 billion. You have already started setting up your anti-social plans more cynically. And after you realized you couldn't apply them yourself, you started looking for accomplices. You're going to charge them elsewhere. You're going to charge your own responsibilities elsewhere. And because you don't make it, you find the nerve to cause consensus. Do the government's gentlemen find it courageous to ask for help from the Opposition against whom? The retired? Who? The ones I was saying no to everything? Those who refused any agreement, even for the election of the President of the Republic and led the country to vote? Those who deceived the political forces with the referendum and the national elections? Those who promised everything to everyone? And here we need to make one, two things clear. Another national agreement which we have always called for, another consensus, other support, another universal one. So let's get to it! The understanding was and it's our beginning. However, it is not possible to deal with beans. It is not the logic of 'I want it all of my own, and when I get to the difficulties, I shout out to you too'. It is not done by insulting and blackmailing and calling the political leaders 'dogs'. It's not a question of consensuality. Consensus wants principles and morality. And that's not what SYRIZA has. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, for the record, we cannot consent to policies that we do not believe in. And personally, I would like to stress that I am not voting for any new tax, no cuts, no material measures. And I believe that the whole New Democracy will not vote for what you will bring. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is it true or is it not, ladies and gentlemen, that otherwise you were telling us during the debate that we voted on the programme? And we did not vote for measures. The measures are yours. Stop claiming that. We voted on objectives and timetables. The measures to achieve the objectives were yours and would come with a social person. And don't say we voted for them, because if we had voted for them, you wouldn't have brought them now. Why will you now bring the farmers' tax? Why are you bringing the pensions now? So they have not been voted on. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are very consistent with what we have said. You said you would bring these with a social person and not allow any home to go into the hands of a banker. You blamed previous governments for billions of bankers. Now what did you do? You closed the banks, you put capital controls, you kicked out the deposits, you sold banks to foreigners, billions lost by small shareholders, the taxpayers lose, they get lost by SYRIZA and ANEL almost 40 billion! And that's not a mistake. It's a crime. It's a crime against small shareholders, but also against the public. It's a crime against all taxpayers. It is a crime that is not erased and recorded for us. It's a crime that's going to be a constant burden on you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You said about growth, too. In fact, we have heard the Minister. What growth? Strangling the economy, constantly cutting down the Public Investment Programme, constantly putting taxes, hitting tourism and drowning our islands in VAT rates? Let me not remind you of the promise to increase the minimum wage and the new painful measures that would never have come along with all that. The cost, ladies and gentlemen, of your governance these months is too great. It's unbearable. And I have to tell you that in December 2014 with the New Democracy and the coup d'état, the country had started to stand on its feet and went to walk. Unfortunately, you shot the country's feet. You have dramatically increased public debt again. You have eliminated the banks by affecting the public, the shareholders, the taxpayers. You paralyzed the real economy. And finally, you're bringing in a budget of taxes and cuts. You bring a budget that neither the real economy nor the popular layers can withstand. It cannot be tolerated by farmers, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, workers and pensioners. It's a plundering budget for people's incomes. It is a budget that reveals the fraud you have set up in an election, and now you will pay it. It is the neoliberal left-wing budget that you represent, and we do not vote for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Maymarakis. Mr. Michaloliacos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the time we are discussing here for a budget - which is not to be observed, as no state budget has been observed in the past few years - in Stuttgart has come out of a Turkish oceanic vessel these hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u274	Wait, Mr. Michaloliaco. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet as you come out of the Chamber. Mr. Michalop, we're starting now if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u275	At the same time as we are talking about a Memorandum Budget, like the previous one of the New Democracy and PASOKs, at the same time in Agios Stratis, in the North Aegean - far more than the ten kilometers of the sea that separate us, said by Mr. Juncker that we should not pay attention to them - there is the Cesme oceancraft, accompanied by two Turkish warships. And all this, a few days after the Prime Minister's visit to Turkey, in a spirit of supposedly-friendlyness that does not exist, since, immediately after his visit, we had constant violations of our national airspace. And for those who do not know it, since 2009 officially Ankara, the Turkish Government, has authorized the Turkish state-owned oil company to investigate the Aegean oil from the 25th mediterranean and east. He's split the Aegean in two, what Mrs. Merkel wants, what John Kerry wants. The New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman spoke earlier and demanded an apology for Mr Papastaurou of the Lagard list, which justice has called for. Will you apologise from the New Democracy for lynching us through the media with statements from ministers on the one hand and New Democracy actors on the other side about the incident against the Member of Parliament, Mr Kumucaku, which we have condemned at the first time? You see all over Chrysayites. And tragic irony: You passed a law against racism, which denounces all race, religion and sex discrimination. It does not, however, dismantle all the discrimination of political opinion. Because there are racist discrimination by you, anti-racists, against the Golden Dawn, but discrimination, which does not bend us, because we are here, in the House, with the vote of hundreds of thousands of Greeks resisting. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] It is a policy of racism against the Golden Dawn where there are ministers of your government who are not answering questions from current questions from Members of the Golden Dawn, because we are, he says, racist, because we are fascists, because we are nationalists. And among other things, one of the Ministers mentioned that we are using the motto "blood, honor, Golden Dawn". But by the word 'blood', what do you think we mean? That we're dating like a zombie on the streets, like in American movies? With the word "blood" we declare our faith in Genos, in Genos the Greek, just as the warlords of 1821 stated when they brought national freedom. And speaking of racism, what is racism? We Greeks were never racist, we had no cotton plantations, we had no colonies, we didn't bring slaves. Is it racism that we want Greece to belong to the Greeks? Of course not! And I will answer to all of them with an Angel’s verse, Note: “I am insane and I am not dying. I'm the insane spirit of the race. You've been calling me lost times and times. Did you look for me? In your breasts you're kicking me." This spirit of the tribe represents the Golden Dawn. I will finish my report by quoting a highly racist text, which belongs to one of the spiritual giants of modern Hellenism: "You are not one, you are a body of armies. One moment beneath the sun will light up one of your faces, and immediately it turns out and lights another, younger, behind you. Your race is the great body last year, the present and the future." These say, gentlemen, anti-racists, Nikolaos Kazantzakis in "Ascist" and they certainly fall under the racist law. It is the budget of a government - supposedly - antimonetary, which would tear up the memorials, would abolish the Memorandum Laws by an article, by a law. A budget which will be fatal and, on the basis of this draft budget submitted to Parliament by your left-wing government, we have to do - it is clear - with a material budget, as reflected in the forecast column. However, while observing the 2015 budget, once again we see in the country the 2015 budget forecast, in relation to the 2015 estimate, having minimal shocks. Expect your plan to increase revenue by 1.635,000 euros. Revenues will basically relate to direct and indirect taxes, namely, in substance these revenues from indirect taxes are nothing more than drafts on paper, which are very questionable if they are to be made. The government has made this budget faithful to what the lenders are asking for and is literally implementing a programme of cruel austerity, overlooking the fact that the Greek people have been exhausted, that they can no longer pay. You are asking to collect around EUR 10 billion, at the same time as the Greek people's outstanding debts to the Greek state are EUR 82 billion. With what optimism do you submit this budget when there are already outstanding debts of 82 billion? It is therefore given that this budget, like the previous ones, will fall outside and will in no way be implemented. But you have another "bow" to get out of the hat as a tachychist. You say there will be a debt relief. The Minister for Finance himself said so, Mr Tsakalotos, in his interviews, but also in his official statements to the American Chamber of Commerce. In fact, this debt relief will begin in March, as they announce, where the deafening is heard, that Greece will return to the markets in 2016. That's what Mr. Chakalotos says. That's what your government says. At the same time, you have abandoned the standing position that the debt is burdensome and disgraceful and must be denounced, you have made your line clear of those who have insisted that a debt control must be carried out and you are moving ahead, loyal to the Memorandum Policy, before the Troika and now the Quadrant. But here we have the statements of the head of the European Stability Mechanism, the famous ESSM, Mr. Klaus Regling, who says that in political terms the Greek debt relief will probably be linked, even after the project was completed in July 2018. March 2016 goes. For July 2018, you are now talking. Debt is the source of the entire misery of the Greek people, which has led to this harsh policy of the austerity of the five years of the memorandum and, for this debt, you believe in general and vaguely that a relief will take place somewhere in the future. And within all of this, you bring in a tax storm that the Greek people cannot afford - you will fail to collect these taxes - and a very strange law, the famous property, where it seems that, for at least some people, the Bolshevik that is hiding inside you is coming to the surface and you are getting to the point where you want to control homes of ordinary citizens, whether they are honest, whether they owe tax, whether they have cash in their home. Instead of looking out at those who are on the Lagard list, like Mr. Papastavrous - and many others, of course - and it has been checked just 10% - I might say a lot - instead of looking at the new lists with all those who made tens of millions of euros abroad, look at how you will disguise the Greek citizen. 'We are not having any understanding', the New Democracy spokesman said earlier. But you made it here, in this Chamber on August 14, 2015, when you agreed and said 'yes' to an agreement and the measures are yours and you brought the measures. And now, in order to gain political ground, they say that they are voting against these measures because they are essential. As if the prerequisites for the Memorandum that came from the so-called 'new agreement', according to the SYRIZA's wording, were not material, they did not foresee all the things that you are presently tabling and asking us to vote on. Memorials are a dead end. Isn't it five years of the Greek people's misery? No growth in any sector. On the contrary, where there is growth, at the direction of the bosses of the European Union and the United States, who thanked for their contribution to the negotiation we had with the European Union, the Greek people are being exterminated. And close to all of this, there is a big issue you call'refugee'. And it's not refugee. It's only refugee in a small part. And it is characteristic that the title of the article written by the former Minister of New Democracy, Mr. Andreas Andrianopoulos, is that the vast majority of those who illegally spend in Greece are 20 to 30 years old. And if you watched the video that is on the internet, we saw a inflatable boat coming with fifty, sixty, seventy refugees and illegal immigrants waiting for her another inflatable boat of an Islamic organisation, which is controlled for her relationship with the jihadists, the One Nation organization, and yelling at each other "Allah Abar". You are nationally dangerous in this matter. You've literally done it. You took these people, those truly unhappy, from the islands, you loaded them on ships, they disappeared one night from Mytilini to visit the island, you took them to Athens and Thessaloniki, you loaded them on trains, today they are trapped in Eidomeni. Where's your anti-racism and your humanism? There they rot in terrible conditions and at the same time our "ma" the European Union, which is allegedly interested in Greek things, closes the borders. He came here at the forefront of FRONTEX, which doesn't work with the Greek police, but with the scorching police. The situation is more dangerous and while on this issue you do not show any force, as a national state, to control the problem, I would inform you that I had a meeting with two of the Members of the Golden Dawn who, when they went to Brussels and have a diplomatic passport, as we know, put them in order and checked them as terrorists, at the same time as the French and Italians would normally, directly. Greece is being put out of Schengen on your own responsibility, and that is a reality that you cannot deny. At the same time, in order to solve the economic problem of the country you are hitting the most alive, at the request of the European Union, in accordance with the plans of the European Union. You beat Greek farmers overtax, cutting off their tax exemptions. Golden Dawn stands on the side of the Greek farmer, who is the natural patriot, the natural nationalist, because he is there next to his father's residence, in his field, next to the grave of his ancestors. I inform the Greek people that a rural nationalist movement has been launched, which has already founded the first union in Iato-Carnania and will go to every corner of Greece to raise farmers up for a new, nationalist Greece. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The Foreign Minister, John Kerry, came to Athens to visit us. The airport went directly to the premises of a non-governmental organisation to see how refugees or illegal immigrants - they are both in - live. If there was a Greek state, it would have to load them all on coaches and tell Mr. Kerry: "Take them to the American Embassy. You did these wars. You created this refugee. Greece cannot withstand this whole situation." [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] At the same time, Mr Kerry, who fully justifies the collapse of the Russian aircraft from Turkish aviation, does not say a word about the violations of our national air space by the Turks. He doesn't say a word. And there were violations that were also dead: Yes, the heroin captain Eliaki, who flying over the sky of Crete and trying to prevent Turkish aircraft from photographing the facilities of F300, was murdered by the Turks! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] What did we do as a state? You weren't government at the time, but it doesn't matter. We handed over the Turkish pilot, the assassin of our Greek air force officer to the Turks. Europe, one of the same. Instead of complicating Turkey and the European Union to impose sanctions on Turkey for this whole situation, which has been created in Greece and the European Union, it rewards them with a EUR 3 billion donation. So, given that there is a Turkish threat and it is also, given that Turkey has a great responsibility and for the violations of our national airspace, but also for the so-called terminology established by you,'refugee issue'. And we are all told that 'There is no question, we are all allies within the framework of NATO'. Really? Are we allies? Then why has the Turkish parliament voted for the casus belli? The Turkish parliament has passed a law, it has decided that if we extend our territorial waters to twelve miles, it will declare the war to us. If you have such allies, what can you do to the enemies? The Greek foreign policy in this area has been reluctant and reluctant. We believe that the interests of Greece at this particular occasion are not with the holocaust of the Americans and the English first of all by their allies, nor, of course, with the interests of Turkey. It is in Russia's interests and we should once again repeat it. All this chaos, all these blood streams in Arab countries, either in North Africa or in the Middle East, caused them by the Arab Spring American agents and, as has been revealed, the so-called jihadists, who are beheading people. It will come in January - it is already in the budget - the insurance issue. Responsibility big. People who worked for thirty and forty years in their lives will be on the street with hunger pensions. What about all this? Because some government, the PASOK government - from which PASOK within your government are several executives - suddenly decided to play on the stock exchange the reserves of the insurance funds. I am referring to 1999-2000. A great deal of haemorrhage in the insurance funds from this action. Of course we had the PSI, which your co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos, said, needs to be examined. Of course you did, but you have accepted the PSI, you have not denounced it. How will you examine the PSI once you have fully accepted the consequences of the PSI and follow the same Memorandum Policy? However, it was more for insurance. For decades now, the black bodies of foreigners who have been using speculators have been using this phenomenon and there has been a real bleeding for the insurance funds and close to them and a half and a million unemployed Greeks, according to official figures - in fact, it is more - if they pay premiums, of course would not have been the present problem. There's also the big problem called demographics. Hellenism is dying. This is about your economic policy. But it is clear that a more dangerous phenomenon exists today in the Greek people. It is despair, it is the passivity from which it is currently almost the whole of our people. Today we have a budget, a budget against which is 90% of the Greek people. There will also be meetings before days, with ten, fifteen, twenty thousand people. Well, congratulations. With your left-wing rule you reached despair, because you promised him in January 2015 that you would tear the Memorandum and apply a Memorandum. You gave him another hope, that if he votes in the 'no' referendum on the Juncker proposal, the memorandum will be torn apart and you tricked him and 'no' did it 'yes'. You have also given him a third blow with the elections of 20 September, saying again that you will take anti-immemorandum measures and development measures, and this budget disproves everything. The Golden Dawn, however persecuted, as it is treated racistly by the government, has a mission of sanctuary to tell the Greek people: "Wake up, the country is gone, it is destroyed, it is dissolved. Resist." It is, however, others that show that you are not a simple government, but that you are trying to create a regime. This is evidenced by the fact that it was placed by the present Minister, Mr. Friend, as President of the Committee of Wise Men who will form the school books, Professor Liakos, who is known for his views. He's not just an abusive to the Macedonians. He's an abusive, and the warriors of 1821. He mentioned the abundance of Tripolisa, which our national poet in "Hymnos to Freedom" describes it: "Oh, what night was the night that trembled her." It has, therefore, been mentioned in the deportation of Tripolis by saying that it was a genocide and other competitors of the same historical current have said that Kolokotronis was a looter and the Friendly Society a criminal gang. So, according to Mr. Liako, there was no Greek nation. It is a creation of the second half of the 19th century, which was created by European romance. Of course he is answered by the most famous historians of our nation, with Constantine Papapegopoulos, but since Papapegopoulos is a nationalist, he is a racist, it is all that I will answer Mr Liakos who says that there is no continuation of Hellenism with the words of a left-wing, Nikolaos Svoronou, who has written "The Greek nation, the birth and the formation of the new Hellenism". Referring to the texts of Anna Komneni, in the Byzantine period, he said: "The name "Greek" begins and regains its double cultural and ethnic content. Greek is whoever participates in Greek education and has Greek origins." That's what Sboron says. It's not a racist, it's not a racist, a golden man, a fascist. "Once again the Byzantines divide the world into Greeks and barbarians. This use of the term "Greek" with its ethnological significance or some kind of match with the term "Roman-Roman" will be generalized in the following centuries. But a response to Liakos and to those who want no continuity in Hellenism gives another great spiritual torment of our nation, Constantine Despotopoulos, an academic - not of course of fascist ideas - who had responded to all this controversy in an article in Kathimerini on 28 January 2010 and stressed: "The timeless continuity of the Greek nation is diagnosed by the historical reality and is not just an invention of the 19th-century Greek romance, to ideological support for national expansions, such as imperially written." Who's it from? The ones you had to write the new Greek story. Your plans won't pass. Golden Dawn will resist the regime you're trying to set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u276	Thank you. Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor. Please keep the time by all the leaders. The time limit laid down is the maximum under the Rules of Procedure, precisely so that there is no question of the subjective crisis of the Bureau at any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. This is the first time I have taken a manuscript from the Step of Parliament to mention the indicators of the economy, as specified by the OECD, a report of November 2015. Mr Tsipras' memorandum is essentially a new loan to the country of EUR 86 billion, added to the country's public debt. So we have an addition of 86 billion public debt. Secondly, on public debt - in terms of Maastricht - it provides for an increase of 183,4% of GDP this year from 177,5% of GDP in 2014, while in 2016 it will reach 190,2% of GDP to go back to 184,3% of GDP in 2017. That's what the OECD says, which you're invoking. The budgetary deficit is expected to be at 4.3% of GDP this year and to increase to 7.7% in 2016. The deficit also takes into account the provision for state support under the recapitalisation to decrease to 1.5% of GDP in 2017. Current account balance is projected to show a deficit of 0.3% of GDP this year and a surplus in 2016 and 2017 1.2% and 1.9% respectively. The European Commission's assessment is that the primary balance is expected to record a small deficit in 2015 0,25% of GDP before returning to surplus in 2016 0.5% of GDP. These facts because they have been given to me, I deliver them as Minutes - I would ask them to be recorded - and from which I am the humble one, and I conclude that the government has created a recession further. [[At this point, the President of the Association of Centres, Mr Vassilis Leventis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Not that the previous year, in 2014, with Samara, was doing well. That year wasn't right. And she was among the words of Mr Samaras, and the situation was really unparalleled, but she was also charged. And the burden I think is due to the beer - you come out to the governments of Mr Varoufakis, to the delays in the talks, to where we will end up. All of this, together with passive surveillance by all the Greek people of the course of things, created a chaos. Because when citizens look forward to developments, that means to a minimum economic paralysis. In this picture, what does the government walk? How's the plane going to get up? Let me get this straight: How's he gonna get up? Where are the hopeful elements which I do not see and which you Government MPs, who will vote on the budget today, that the aircraft is coming up, that it will take off? Where? So we have a picture completely similar to George Papandreou and Antonis Samaras, to whom I had sent letters and to whom I had told them to resign from Prime Ministers for the establishment of a universal government. The same agony, just the same agony led me ten days ago to come up with this step and ask for a universal government. Same agony. I think that you, too, have some responsibilities. And once the country collapses, these responsibilities will be very great. Other than if responsibilities are never attributed to this place. But they'll be there and they'll be recorded. So my agony about the country's course brought me to this step. And the next day just after I asked for a universal government, I, the humble Vassilis Leventis, went to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and asked for a consensus. The next day, exactly. And he launched that unexpected, the summit of Heads of State. At first I didn't understand it, but I'm saying, dialogue is good, and I came. None of the conversations lost. Of course, discussions may be pointless. Many of you may not know exactly what happened. The present Chiefs know. Mr. Kammenos, who is here, knows what happened. The Prime Minister knows what happened. The other, Theodorakis, knows what happened. That eight o'clock was martyristic, with monologues. For an hour and a half, the Prime Minister made a suggestion to the refugee. And he didn't end up at any point and what he's gonna do. Just recording the situation. After a five-minute break. And when we got back, another forty-five minutes started talking about insurance. I've been waiting for suggestions. I've been waiting for positions. He reported dangers and need for consensus. In the first two and a half hours that happened. After it's over, I got out and it's good to know what they're talking about. I told them that my dream of politics is, this place to have a universal government, coalition governments and a mere analogue. That's what I had as my dream. I even told them that I regret the fact that the New Democracy through Mr Plakkatakis was in favour of strong governments, that is to say, in favour of the strengthened one. The Prime Minister said we can join the Constitution. The Constitution cannot join, because it goes further. It's going after the election. So it once again means a bonus election and a reinforced one. It says: 'then we can, by agreement between the parties, do so by now.' I say: 'Keep back, etc.''.'. They didn't commit to the communiqué, it was just said. The wind took it. After that was over and no one committed to anything, the communiqué's tragedy began. The various Heads, for one word, lost twenty minutes: "Put it and", "No, don't put it, don't put it on." I return to the President of the Republic and say to him "if you put the pensions down, and in the meantime, your institution is being exposed". He says: "Mr Leventis, we didn't exactly say what would happen. We said: we hope that it will not be reduced." I say: 'Were we here to exchange wishes?' I didn't understand what Tsipras did at that time. What happened for eight hours? And what did I get at the end of my 30-year-old perspective? That he gave foreigners everything to the refugee, so he could relax the program in the insurance. That is what I understood, otherwise this session did not make sense. It didn't make any sense. Nothing's been recorded. I mean, it didn't happen to hear something new. What we heard from the Prime Minister in refugee and insurance is what the newspapers have been writing all day. We didn't hear anything new. I'm telling you, honestly. If I had heard anything, I would have told you. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] So there was an attempt "we give it all to the refugee" as the next day went to a summit - the next day, exactly, on Sunday - to achieve a relaxation of insurance. Relaxation in the insurance, what did he need? Obviously, there are MPs in SYRIZA who find it difficult to vote for the laws that are coming. That's what I thought. Because there was nothing else to conclude. If there were some five-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, what's the point of holding a summit? What's the point of asking each other for consents, etc. I said, therefore, in front of Mr Tsipras that, if they are not universal, it will collapse after a few weeks. That's how I anticipated it. And that would be a mistake, while he could do the brave act, to go to the President of the Republic - an act that Samaras and Giorgakis Papandreou have hesitated to do - and say "the circumstances require universality in decisions and give outward image of political unity, instead of division and division that we have been giving for five years". I mentioned this and mentioned the example of Ferhofstadt, who came here and said to me: "If you had been universal since '09, since '11 you would have forgotten the memos. This division of yours, half to say the other half traitors, gives a ridiculous image outwards, divides your society that does not respond." In other words, one may pass laws, but society does not implement them. Spreading laws is easy, but how the people will implement them is the matter. Any tax you can put on. What power will the Greek people pay him? After a 30% -35% of the Greek people who pay nothing, have been consolidated in general, they pay nothing. And the first tutors in "I don't pay" are you who sit on the benches of today's Compression, and the Prime Minister himself who said "I don't pay the ENPIA", not by weakness, but mentally he didn't want to pay it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, keep the tape today. I believe that evolution will be the collapse of the government. Now they say the government's looking for corporations in my face or in the Central Association. I in the Central Association know that there will not be a single Member to vote. Because I read something else, that they are looking for MPs, two in the Central Association, three in the Potami, to be porn. Well, don't look for the Centro Association, they vain. I'm telling you with all my knowledge. You'll be exposed if you make that kind of access. I asked for a consensus, but not a consensus superficial, hypocritical, such as the one proposed by the Prime Minister. I asked for a true consensus, for the parties to sit down - the parties, which I believe have a love for Europe and for their homeland - to find a plan to tackle the crisis. That's what I asked. And in the Prime Minister's chair maybe Tsipras can stay. I don't insist so much on Tsipras changing. I certainly insist that all the ministers change and technocratize, because I do not like the image of the ministers. They're amazed by journalists, etc. The minister must have the task of solving problems and not having daily conflicts with his counterparts, colleagues from the other parties or journalists. I, too, believe that the Papademos government, if we hadn't put Pangalo, Voridis, Adoni, all these people, had entered technocrats and hadn't raped the New Democracy, that government, to be a short-lived election, would have given up if Papademos had lasted two years. In fact, I asked Mr Kammenos in the session - and I told Tsipras after - who said about examination, about the PSI - now, of course, we couldn't do PSI, because now all the bonds are state-owned and it has to be decided by each Parliament to give us a euro, it has now made it difficult - if the opportunity was given for a new PSI, we would not do so? PSI reduced the debt at 110 billion. Now we'd have, like, one of the numbers I said, 110 billion on top. Wouldn't we do it because the insurance funds had 28 billion dollars and would they lose something? Is there a Prime Minister in Greece who would never do a PSI again to reduce the debt of 110 billion, because they would lose some kind of insurance funds? And Tsipras didn't talk. He didn't answer me. Other if there were other things at that time. That's what Mr. Kammenos knows, let him take them, I told him to justice. However, the PSI reduced the debt of 110 billion. Now we'd have about 450 billion debts. And you know, like a haircut if it is now - we say, which can't be done, only the strangers told me - it solves the country's problem and the country comes out on the market. So, to understand what the PSI was, at the same height if the haircut is now cut, the country is coming out on the markets. Did you hear that? But now foreigners don't give haircuts, because every state has the debt. And if the Germans could make us a concession, it would not be the others, the Dutch, the Finns, the Belgians and the others. And if Tsipras tells you, vote for the tough measures, and the time will come when the debt will be high and you SYRIZA MPs will be justified, because you voted for them because the benefit of the debt reduction has come to your mind, be surprised if you wait at this hour. Only prolongation will take place. And what they say we're going to open the debt debate, you know what we're going to open. The debate on the prolongation at low interest rates. No haircut. Let's explain why the Prime Minister can tell you a haircut and why many of you coming out on the different channels, you mean a haircut and say a haircut. So tell the truth: Expansion. That's the truth. I turn, however, to the other parties. The New Democracy voted until September everything to keep it from the euro. Now why are you being tempted to continue your European tactic? So, now you're back to win percentages? Are you guys being antimony? What's that? When you passed those laws, didn't you know that this third memorandum case would continue with implementing laws? I'm sorry, we were voting so we wouldn't leave the euro. Would these agreements not continue after the elections with implementing laws? Why do you take your tail out to responsibilities? I hope your new Chief is intact and will not continue with this tactic. But if you continue to take your tail out and say "I do not vote", while so far you have voted for the country, oppose the declaration of your founder, Konstantinos Karamanlis, who has founded a European party. Watch out, you're derailing and leaving the main orbit where your founder wanted the party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u278	Are you going to vote on these measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u279	If I had voted for them by September, dear, I could not deny them in November. This isn't serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u280	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u281	But we didn't vote for measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u282	I am sorry to say the same to Mr Theodorakis, who has made every effort. Having felt the need until September for the country not to leave the euro, why did it stop feeling the same need? He didn't know that when you vote for the deal, they're coming under the law? And he ignored it? The PASOK MPs ignored it? And the PASOK MPs have been seriously responsible, because for years, with their tactics they have been bankrupt the country. Another if voters were to be converted to SYRIZA and considered that they have thus escaped their sins. Because that's what happened. The audience who voted for PASOK in order to be appointed to PPC and the various services is transferred today and is the audience of SYRIZA. Do not doubt that if this had not happened, SYRIZA would still be a party of 3% -4%. If there was a solid PASOK, and if there were a way of not reducing the pensions and wages of the world, it would not be in SYRIZA that these fans or trade unionists would be in PASOK. If I lie... I have reinstated all of Greece during this period. No one was found to tell me: He supported Cipra. Honestly, I don't know what's weird. One was not found to tell me: Mr Leventis, because the country is in crisis and is a historic moment, give Tsipras support. All I see in the journalists is everyone taking me and telling me: 'Would you give me support?' And Mr Theodorakis was found, who told Hajikolaou that I would support Tsipras. I asked him, "Where does that come from?" when I saw him at a meeting. It says to me: 'From instinct'. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] And yesterday they were also sad at PASOK and the Potami which I said that after the government insists on enlargement and is not the Centro Association to do it, who are others? And I predicted it was the river and the PASOK. For the indignant kidnapping I anticipated that poor guy. Isn't that right? After they insist on enlargement. It's not the Centron Association. Who are they? The youth's on the tiles. And we'll see it in a few days. But I do not think it is honest in this place to look for MPs. You're the one who's in this, and you're displeased, come to vote. This is a return to bad times and I do not recommend it to Mr. Tsipras. What I recommend to him is not to lose authority. In fact, when I got down the street the last time I proposed universal, some were quick to say, "Who will be a Prime Minister?" You seem to have a ‘carcinoma’. All you care about is who will be a Prime Minister. But there are others who only care about Greece standing up. It's been Tsipras for years. If he shows braveness today by resigning in favour of a universal government, he has been a prime minister for years. That is what I said by George Papandreou, who said, "After I got a hundred sixty-seven, will I not form a government?" And I said to him, "You will not be able to leave your house, you will eat stones." He didn't listen to me. He did government and you saw where he ended up. So it is not the prime minister's chair at all. The story is written with the bravery of the faces. If a Prime Minister is presented for the sake of the country to help us turn the pages of the self-powered governments and go to coalition governments, the story will write him with a lot of gold. I assure you. I made an example. If we have a balance and in the middle is zero, left fascism, right democracy, while the needle is turning towards fascism, we go to self-powered governments, that is, to one-party governments. As long as the needle turns towards democracy, we want coalition governments and, if possible, the universal type. Be careful: Did you hear that scale I mentioned? It is not possible for SYRIZA today to have the same views on the electoral law as Averov, the forgiver, who said "outside the fold". You're a party left. And Glezos said the first bill you need to establish is the simple analogue. You put it in place? You're going to introduce it! We're waiting! The historic opportunity for the simple analogue was lost by Florus. Do you know when she lost her? When he made a government with Mitsotakis. Because in the JRC I am called the "rabbit". They will understand that the Centro Association is a serious party that has been struggling for years to enter the House. He couldn't take anyone else. That kind of stomach wouldn't have anyone else. 'Laughs' were you to the JRC in the '89 government. And this government, I'd consider it reasonable for you to do it. But when? If you were asking for a simple analogue. If you were to say to Mitsotakis: “Do you miss two seats? Make the simple analogue and we're coming." You went and got national resistance pensions for all your members. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u283	What are you talking about? It's a lie. You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u284	All right, I'm the lad! It will seem who the 'crowd' is. And it's presumptuous to address a person by naming what he's going to do. Like Theodorakis' move to say that I will support, because he can in the end support him. And that his image...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u285	You support the policy that says cut pensions, cut wages. That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u286	And some people have said that the universal proposal is being put forward as an instrument for industrialists and interlocutors. Where was the 30-year complication to support me, gentlemen? I'm an industrial agent? You must be ashamed of some in this Chamber. You must be ashamed of yourself! [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] And in any case, in the JRC, we will see who is the'milk'. You and Mitsotakis colluded to be sending Andreas Papandreou to prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u287	You don't know well. You forgot. You grew up and forgot!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u288	Yeah, yeah, I forgot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, please close your speech. Don't cause conversations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u290	My final appeal is that the Prime Minister should go to the President of the Republic to hand over the mandate and propose a universal government. Just wait for the New Democracy to elect a new Chief and postpone the vote on the insurance two weeks after the election of the Head of the New Democracy. And I hope that the new leader of the New Democracy will not make the mistake some thermo-heads make and say: "We will never go with the PASOK" and hit breasts. If the place needs anything, I know one thing: if a politician is an honest man, if his country needs something, he does so and he puts his party on second fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u291	Thank you. The Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction has the floor, Mr. Kourublis, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u292	When the debate is being held at such a critical moment under the misery and melancholy state, when there is a debate without inspiration, I fear that things are taking a wrong direction. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only a revolution that torrent bloodshed, torrential bloodshed, that is to say bloodshed, is not necessarily a revolution. The revolution is the radical restructuring of the institutions. It is a revolution when one dares - and has the will - to re-establish the institutions and free creative forces of society, when it gives the only opportunity for the citizen to be able, as Kastoriadis said, to question himself and question self-determination. So, despite the major disagreements that have been made in this Chamber and the different approaches, there is a common place, that public administration is still weak, it is still the great patient. The intermittent responsibilities, the overlap of responsibilities, bureaucracy and plurality mislead and drown every creative effort at the place. And there is a big question to everyone, ladies and gentlemen, is it because of SYRIZA for all these phenomena of bureaucracy? What prevented those who have ruled so far from confronting this phenomenon? What prevented those who have to date from moving into an institutional framework in the context of decentralisation, which would clarify all this involvement of responsibilities, the confusion between legality and feasibility, phenomena which really stifle any development effort in the field of decentralisation? What was the obstacle? Who has prevented the existence of an institutional framework which will establish the social economy in this area, broaden representativeness, establish inter-democratic institutions to enable the citizen and be a citizen and not a citizen? Who has so far prevented the new institutions from moving forward? Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about bureaucracy and we are saying that it absorbs 6% of GDP. We are capable of finding out, but, it seems, we are weak in treatments. We're talking about pluralism. Well, I tell you that 7 billion euros have been spent since 2000 for the famous Electronic Governance. Should we or should we not be ashamed when in a country that was unclaimed, Estonia, if you call today in a certain number, can you in a quarter become an electronic resident of that country with the most beneficial consequences for its development? So what was it that prevented, ladies and gentlemen? Didn't we have sufficient people? I can't believe it. Didn't we have scientists? The country may be in the measured first countries in the world for its minds here and in the diaspora. We recruited them? We asked them to support us, to try, so that the country could come out of this decline? Ladies and gentlemen, the reasons were not economic. They were not economical or capacity reasons at all. There was no will. We have tabled a bill - Mr Vernardakis - for the evaluation of structures and persons. We therefore aspire, in resisting the temptation of the party-state, to proceed to a new evaluation institution by evaluators who have been assessed with the aim of zeroing - let me say - the least of the question. Finally, to be objectively assessed and to establish dignity in this afflicted area of public administration. So sit down and criticize us and tell us what best you can bring and we will hear. Because we learned to listen. We don't own the only truth. In such a spirit, we will also go on to reintroduce decentralisation, because we want real decentralisation with resources, but also with clearly defined responsibilities, a state that is not tempting to hold management sizes, but to release the powers so that the country develops in a balanced context of economic and social development. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that there are eighty municipalities that have no more than four employees? Do you know that these municipalities do not have the opportunity to make use of European programmes, why do they have neither resources nor staff? Do you know that this is how economic and social inequality is expanded in the country? Finally, it is not just Athens and the major cities! Instead of discussing these issues, misery "what you did", "what I did", "what you did not do", "what I did in the past". Do you think the Greek people have no judgment? Only when he votes for us does he have a good judgment? We will do the same with the codification of legislation, because we will complete this work. And we will proceed with the codification of the administrative procedure, where the relationship between the citizen and the state is drowning in ambiguity, so that the world runs to the administrative courts and cases involving development in two, three and five years' time. This is how growth has been lost from Greece. Real growth, not numbers. Constitution: We, the Ministry of Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, will begin. We will have an open and unobstructed dialogue with society. To put forward proposals, ideas, thoughts, and to go together all together, to the greatest possible extent. And you will see that what I am saying is of substance and value, because we have no reason to go to a constitution that safeguards individual rights, conflicts with discrimination, safeguards the social state, ensures the rights of the citizen and contributes to the balanced development of the country, a Constitution with mediator institutions which invokes and mobilizes the citizen who is indifferent at the moment. We will go to the electoral law as well and there you will see that the government's intentions do not hide second thoughts. We have no reason to serve purpose. We want an electoral law fairer and we'll dare what no one dared, because you don't talk about it. Four times you have brought to Parliament - all the parties - the break-up of the regions. And as a machine God, a hand took the devices back. You're not talking about it! They drowned the country! Because here in Athens was the biggest incubator of corruption! Isn't that right? Ladies and gentlemen, because I hear and really saddens me and regrets me, at last when we get up to this step, to have the political courage to say things. You must criticise this government. It must be criticised by its Members, who have not changed this whole structure, who, if you were, as previous parties, did, the next day did not remain holy in his place. Where did it go? The hospitals? Where have changes been made? On the boards of directors? Tell me about it. Today's President of Parliament, when he was Minister of the Interior, brought order. Seven policy positions were in decentralised administrations - you would have changed them the next hour! - and this government has chosen to go into a transparent process and to grant these positions to service providers. And you come here to the Step and you say inseparable verbs. Ladies and gentlemen, because I hear about the corruption issue, about the list that the current German Government brought from Germany, take the Minutes, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 and 9 August 2012 and you will see that for four years the spokesman has tabled a question with two other colleagues and asked the Finance Minister then to ask the State in question these lists and never happened. Do you now know what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen? We will give the people that the independent authority has asked for the prosecution of corruption and economic prosecutors, seventy executives specialised in the decision of the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, mine and Mr Vernardakis, precisely to be able to carry out critical issues, such as the control of seafoods, which you have never dared to open. Over EUR 15 billion has been allocated to loans over the last ten years, and there have been reports from the auditors of the Bank of Greece, who have pointed them out and yet found them in the archives. We move on to staffing from the rest of this year's recruitment with an important number for the needs of local government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u293	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u294	I shall conclude, Mr President. We extended the staff of eight months to cleanliness for local government throughout 2016 and implemented up to a euro the budgetary obligations for local government, when a few months ago many people said we would not implement it. And the remaining - please - 203 million will be granted up to a euro from that government to local government. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this place has the guarantees to come out of this crisis. We asked for consultation. We didn't ask for coexistence. This government has a blunt parliamentary front and you will try it and you will see it. Therefore, do not smell about things that have not been requested. We're asking you to agree. You don't want to? The Greek people will judge it. All of us are judged by the Greek people and you and us. So we believe that this place can go forward, because we have a vision, because we believe in the capabilities and powers of this place. So I close by paraphrasing a phrase of the late Vasilis Triantafylides. Vassilis Triantafylides was saying that the boogeyman digs his gypsy, not to make her stronger, but to make her prettier. We believe, therefore, in the new children of the country, in the new scientists of the country, not because they are young and beautiful, but because they are mostly strong minds and these minds are free of misery, they are minds that can be activated and contribute to the development of the country, a development that will bring smile to the lips of all Greeks, not some Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Minister. The President of the Group of Independent Greeks, Mr Panos Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are three hours before the state budget was voted. The image of the Greek Parliament is unprecedented. Up to ten minutes ago, the Civic Opposition was represented by a Member for two hours. Now there are four of them. The House's visitors are fifty-two. This shows the image of the current political situation. Civic Opposition does not exist because New Democracy was converted from New Democracy into New Democracy - Vodafone. It was fundamentally converted into an advocacy for a policy which she did not believe in. A policy that overthrowed the New Democracy itself and its period of government. A policy expressed by the Samara government when the Minister of Finance stood up and said that he was in agreement with George Papandreou in relation to ELSTAT and the 2009 statistics and not Kostas Karamanlis. A side, which no longer has the courage to enter the House and to exercise opposition. And that is the tragedy here in this country, because basically the one responsible for the country's outrage found supporters of people and parties that no one expected. Supporter of the PASOK government and the Venizelos logic is the whole of Officerial Response, New Democracy. Supporter of the Samara government - Venizelos and PSI policy we heard just now that Mr Leventis is. In support of the same policy, Potami, while listening to Mr. Theocharis talking about a government "LOCKHEED MARTIN", he said, essentially, that we should meet the demands of the German companies that have bribed Greece, and agree to move on to oblivion, in relation to the companies that are now called upon to pay the broken ones and the ones that they charged in our country, bribing politicians and civil servants. And who stayed? Apart from the Communist Party of Greece, which has a consistent course and must confess, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks remained, the two parties that form the body of this government. Indeed, we are talking today about a budget which can bear the burden of the past, but in essence this budget is the result of a very tough negotiation that this government has done here. Let's see what the truth is. The President of the Centroon Union spoke earlier about EUR 86 billion in debt. And I ask him: is it EUR 86 billion a debt that will go into the state budget? The answer is no. Firstly, from the EUR 25.6 billion recapitalisation of the banks, which is described in the EUR 86 billion that you say is debt, nearly EUR 5 billion was used by this government. Only from this point of view, 20 billion euros are immediately deducted from the EUR 86 billion. Secondly, the EUR 54 billion debts, which are included in the EUR 86 billion debts that this government brings into this budget, are what? They are the PASOK and New Democracy loans, which, instead of being paid in three years, will be paid in thirty-two years. Instead of paying at 2-3% interest rates, they will be paid at 1% interest rate. So this government brings a budget that actually brings the country to the path of salvation. He's bringing the country out of the austerity policy. It brings the country to the exit of the policy of the memorials. This government with tough negotiations and a merciless war by the media, by the system itself, which you have devastated with monkey loans to publishing companies, in channels, in people who should have been confiscated already, has managed, by fighting with everyone, to make an agreement that brings hope, which enables this place to stand up, for young children to return to development. And I do ask myself: why do you not support this national effort? Why do you not support this national effort and insist on supporting a criminal policy of the past? What do you owe Venizelo? Why cover him up until today? Why does the New Democracy not follow the policy it held in the Submarine Equipment Commission and is now coming to be a defence attorney? Why should he insist on his policy of forgiveness in a system that has troubled the place for so many years, the PASOK system, the contractors' system, canalarchs, the intertwined, the prisoners today? I challenge in this Chamber any political leader defending the PSI and that 106 billion has been deleted from the debt to bring us the public debt card before and after, so that we can see exactly what the country's situation is before and after. The truth is one. The truth is that they practically got tired of bonds from the Greek banks worth 38 billion euros, of insurance funds worth 14 billion euros, of Greek bondholders, hospitals, universities, public institutions, equity funds. The state was dismantled. At the same time, the new loans we received were EUR 108.5 billion. Even if one accepts that 106 were deleted, the new loans added were 108 billion euros. Red loans in December 2009 were EUR 23 billion. Red loans in December 2014 were EUR 78 billion. It was 53 billion red loans, i.e. 53 billion which dismantled the private economy. The entire haircut is essentially 53 billion. The increase in red loans is 53 billion. The new loans for the PSI are 108.5 billion, i.e. the nominal reduction of the public debt of 106 billion, in fact 55 billion in what is presented to it, while the real one, if you count red loans, is negative by 3 billion. Shouldn't the envelope of this fabulous PSI be opened at some point? Why do you insist so much? And I have listened very carefully lately to the destruction of the banks. What's the picture of the banks? I asked my partners to submit my stock price tables to the Greek banks. In 2011 the share price of the National Bank on the New York Stock Exchange was $100.2. Today's stock price is $161. Who destroyed the banks? The government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks or the government of Samara - Venizelos? National Bank of Greece, price on the Greek Stock Exchange: in 2011 $30. Current value: 0,08. Who destroyed the National Bank? And because things heard about Finansbank, the price in 2011 was $4, while today it's just under $6. That's the truth. What are the measures taken by the previous governments and what measures is the current government taking? The secret measures resulting from the official tables are essentially 55,766, i.e. the measures taken in 2015 to 2016. The total of the measures taken by the previous government is 8.3. This all comes from the official documents. That is, essentially from the secret measures you had foreseen that you would take this government saved five billion pre-agreed measures, which you had done and which are described in the official tables as unidentified measures, i.e. not specified. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need to consider is the dramatic image of the economy before and today, to see what is the future of this place. If you look at how much banks have had and how much they lost since 2014, you will see that accumulated losses by 2014 are EUR 30 billion. If anyone sees how these were created, it will see that on 31/3/2015 that this government took over what was lost by the Greek banks is 30.169.144. The banks have practically lost 30 billion, and if one calculates the'red' loans, it will reach another figure. The measures taken by the Governments of the Memorandum until that government took over were 58.6 billion, PASOK 2/3 and PASOK - New Democracy 1/3. Today's two-year measures are 6.7 billion. That is the difference and change of policy that exists. For the'red' loans, there was a comprehensive report by other colleagues. What's the other picture of the country? I have heard criticism from the opposition about the visit of the United States Secretary of State. Instead of being pleased that the US Secretary of State comes to our country and basically supports the Greek Government's policy, not the SYRIZA - Independent Greek Government, which speaks of growth, which speaks of a prosperous future, mainly because of the country's geostrategic role, you are criticising the level I mentioned earlier by Mr. Theocharis, "Government, says, Lochheed - Martin". Instead of saying that the country, instead of fiercely carrying out Mr Soible's mandate, has actually come to the heart of the policy pursued in the South-East Mediterranean, with Israeli, Egypt's moreate countries in the Middle East, rather than seeing that, at the moment, the immigration policy, which we have been very careful to date, has led to immigration controls on the side of Turkey and not on Greece, instead of seeing that at the moment the power of the country in the European Union, NATO, but also other allies, such as Russia, such as the countries that I told you earlier in the Middle East, the Arab Emirates, Israel, Jordan, Egypt, have raised our homeland to a major geopolitical player, instead of seeing that energy is now coming from the US Minister of Foreign Affairs, you are reckoning and trying to bring the level of the debate to the micropolitics. I'm glad Mr. Brutsi has come. What did he say before? What he actually used in his speech was the defense of a defendant right now on all the lists in Lagard, on the list of Switzerland's coke. Are we going on with that logic? With those who actually robbed the country? Come and work together, not with your vote. We don't need the vote. The 153 MPs are quite powerful. I wish you could vote for the government, and I wish you could support what you supported in the measures that you voted for with the summer agreement. Don't you want to do it? Don't do it. At least, however, you must agree to support the government in some of its national options. I would ask for this in particular in relation to issues relating to national defence. I have listened very carefully to the speech by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kefaloyannis, and I have indeed wondered who the figures are. In the Ministry of National Defence, a 35% reduction was observed in the wage category between 2009 and 2015. As far as the operational part of the budget is concerned, that is, for fuel, for food, for soldiers, for maintenance, the situation is even worse, as we have a reduction in the 2015 budget than in 2009, which is close to 60%. The reduction that had taken place in the pensions of retired returnees, who are based essentially, are members of the Armed Forces, is of the order of 60%.The reduction in this period was 68%. In summary, the reduction in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence for the period 2009-2015 exceeds 50% and at absolute prices exceed EUR 3.2 billion, making the Ministry of National Defence a protagonist of cuts, in particular among the Ministries of large size. Despite these elements, the Defence and Security Feel to the Greek people are maintained at high levels, thanks to the high mind and morality of the Armed Forces' personnel, who are against every cut they are defending with a sense of supreme responsibility the integrity of the country and the sovereign rights. No, Mr. Mihaloliaco, now missing, it's not a Turkish ship right now in Strate. The Turkish ship did enter and tried to do research. From the ship "ATHOTIS" from the first moment, as all aircraft that violate the national airspace, as well as ships, are intercepted from the first moment from the Navy and just after they left. And he left because the Armed Forces' officers and the Ministry of National Defence defend both the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. With regard to the 2016 budget, which has been tabled for vote, remuneration appropriations remain at the same level as last year, while the corresponding appropriations for operating expenditure show a reduction of 3%, resulting from planned and fully costed actions by the General Staff and not as a result of an unrealised cut. To understand, all supplies now become interchallenges. They don't buy any more of the Air Force, Navy and Army hospital. There is a cross-sectoral supply of materials. All materials, which are common, interchallenge, are managed by a common warehouse. Thus, cost cuts substantially, making savings with long -term policies. And the social work of the Ministry of National Defence is growing. The presence of MOMA is quite clear in Evros, in the islands, in the issues of immigration, where it should be. Three million shares we gave! Right now only prepares all the hot spots. And all this is done with a serious policy, which continues to serve the Greek citizen. Aerospace, with 90 million debts from the Ministry of Health, continue day and night. Our pilots, the Navy ships make bridges for the citizens all over the Aegean Sea. The appropriations for the equipment show a fall of approximately 14% or 100 million, while it had been voted on within the limits of the medium-term financial strategy framework. To understand, only by a company that bribes the country - and I am talking about the RimENTAL company - we are currently negotiating, asking for compensation of about EUR 200 million. We will take this large sum, which will enter for the benefit of the Armed Forces. Of the materials which have expired, we have allocated sums which exceed EUR 200 million, covering both the needs of the budget and the needs to reduce the appropriations. In fact, we have secured money from armaments in order to implement the decision of the Council of State. The overall reduction in appropriations for the Office's budget does not exceed 3.3%, compared with the cuts that had been made in previous years. Following close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the financial services of the Ministry of National Defence - corresponding services of the Ministry of Finance for the correct representation of the relevant figures - there is a substantial increase in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, compared with the relevant Presidential Decree submitted to the Greek Parliament by 17 million euros. And this has all been done by saving effectively from the policy that I have implemented. Despite the limited appropriations and cuts in the previous years, in 2015 the payment of the days provided for by Presidential Decree 200/1993 was implemented outside the headquarters, the so-called ‘border allowance’, what you said we will never pay. All the military, the servants in Evros and the Aegean islands took it. The high expenditure has been borne in mind within the limits of the budget of the relevant General Staff and will continue next year. With regard to the remuneration side, 50% of the paid by the Council of State in retroactive terms is paid, and the other 50% is committed to an account in order to sign the Ministry of Finance and to be granted as soon as the matter is settled with the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Commerce. And in the field of armaments, and in time seeing the problem of cutting appropriations for next year through the close cooperation we had with the Ministry of Finance, what have we done? We have ensured the necessary supplies of weapon systems and, in particular, their maintenance, the Follow On Support, fully exploiting the appropriations for this year's equipment programme. It is worth noting that in previous years the absorption of such appropriations ranged from 22% in 2011 to 59% in the previous year. Apart from the previous ones, the 100 million granted to the Ministry of Finance by the Ministry of Equipment of the Ministry of Defence, beyond the implementation of this year's budget, in no way affect the design, as I said before. We have taken all the necessary measures in the relevant departments. What else did we do? We turned all the “sinners” IO, the Compensatory Benefits, from where they were blackmails, training in Korea, programs that did not actually offer to the Armed Forces, to “Follow On Support”, so that we can use all the equipment that the Greek people have paid for very expensive and parallel instruction and delivery of new ammunition, so that the necessary force and power will exist in the army. As regards the insurance and pensions of active armed forces, legal failures with regard to the age limits and the conditions of retirement have been corrected by reinstatement of the provisions of the Law. Date of birth: 3865/2010. Co-ordinated operations have taken place for the first time in order to remove shareholder funds from the Ministry of Labour, on the other hand, to suspend the calculation of one-off aid with the merits clause, not arbitrary but on the basis of studies and research carried out by the Fund administrations that all this will be sustainable, ensuring equal rights for future generations. Nothing is going to be cut by the Armed Forces executives! In addition, coordinated actions by all involved actors take place in the defence industry, in order, as resurrected and constituted, not only a reliable security pillar for the Armed Forces, through security of supply, but also where research and technology will be a strong multiplier. We have made agreements with the countries of the Middle East, with NATO member countries, with Russia, in order for the Defence Industry to proceed to such contracts already guaranteed for the next ten years. And the Greek Defence Systems, ELVO will be basically our country's defence support arm. The Ministry of National Defence will continue to be responsible for the country's budgetary effort and will be a key factor of stability for the wider region, ensuring conditions of stability and security, an element necessary for the development of the economy. At this point I would like to assure you that the Ministry of National Defence in relation to international missions is not only entirely consistent, but has already made use of all the possibilities for training officials, such as postgraduate programmes, which are linked to the foreign universities and the possibilities for specialising the personnel of the Armed Forces. We have planned in the next few days - and it will be tabled in this House - a bill which provides for the use of short-term soldiers, who will be able to remain in the army for three years. They will be people who will have the option of these three years with one wage - or most of them will be unemployed - to be able to receive vocational training and, at the same time, to perform social work on the part of the Armed Forces, which will also provide financial support for national defence. There may be differences in many things. There may indeed be differences in a number of policy areas. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of national defence, there must be a return to the policy with which the budget of the Ministry of National Defence was voted on by the entire House of Greeks. I invite you all this evening to send a message to the Armed Forces' staff, which has nothing to do with politics, does not belong to parties, serves the Greek flag, serves the national independence and territorial integrity, all to support the Ministry of National Defence budget together. I urge all colleagues to come to the Department of National Defence any time they want and have the information they need. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that a common policy is needed on national issues, a policy which does not lead to extreme acts, such as the official announcement a little while ago from Potami, which decided to support Hines Richter, a professor of the Manheim University's history, who is currently being tried in Rethymnon and said that brutal and barbaric practices have not only been used by invasion units, but also by the naughty Cretans who took the guns against them. Such logic does not help in the common national policy. Finally, let us decide that there is a need for seriousness on national issues at some point, as is German compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u299	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u301	Please stop yelling first and sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u302	They're ahead of them. They shall precede any speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u303	Please, too! Nobody takes the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u304	They're ahead of us. And you're badly in the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u305	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u306	Because you spoke as a Member and you must abstain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u307	Yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u308	In accordance with Rule 66(2), you must proceed from the end of the debate, not from the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u309	No, Mr. Venizelo. Can you sit down?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u310	Oh, no. Are you going to get off the descent?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u311	No, I'm not coming down from the Chair. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u312	Rule 66(2) of the Rules of Procedure you are in breach of.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u313	Is that the point you wanted to raise? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u314	Give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u315	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u316	Because he's ahead of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u317	Clear up, will you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u318	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u319	Clear up, will you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u321	Well, then what do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u322	Give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u323	Because I want you and Mr. Theocharis to listen for a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, after the announcements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u325	No, no. I have the floor, and no one can take him away from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u326	Do you have a right, and we don't?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u327	You're very welcome. Have a seat, Mr. Leventis. Mr. Venizelo, please very much. We're in the process of the political leaders talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u328	There's no such thing as that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u329	You're very welcome. At this stage, what exists as a misunderstanding or what has happened, I would be very much obliged either the parliamentary representatives or the former parties' leaders to tell the political leaders to cover the matter. Mr. Venizelos...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u330	Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u331	But listen for a minute. Apparently you want to say about the PSI, for one time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u332	You don't know what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u333	Yesterday you took the floor for a second time, and you referred to it and tabled to the Bureau all the PSI data.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u334	Will you respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr President? I've asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u335	Please, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, there is a personal issue, because Mr Kammenos mentioned my name for once, saying directly the heavy and miserable slander that there are political choices over my term in the Ministry of National Defence related to submarines, which are harmful to the public interest. He also referred to the PSI, which is not my policy. It is a policy of co-government Papademos, with a large majority, but I was the Minister of Finance. Look at it's a moral, political and aesthetic choice for Mr. Tsipras to be a fellow brother of Mr. Kammenos and to rely on him. But that does not give Mr Kammenos the right to greed, to reverse reality and to poison public life. I shall begin at the end, Mr President. In the distribution of competences of the current government between the Minister and the Deputy Minister of Defence, Mr Tsipras - not by accident - removed responsibility for the construction, construction of the Navy ships by the Minister and assigned it to the Deputy Minister, Mr Vitsa. He doesn't trust him to handle this. Secondly, there is now a very critical arbitrage in order to protect the interests of the Greek State on the basis of the conventions passed by Parliament in 2010. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I was asked by the Legal Council of State and by the international lawyers of the Greek State to testify as a witness to the court, in order to defend all the interests of the Greek State, because there were disputes years after my presence at the Ministry of Defence and they want my assistance, my opinion, in order to convince the foreigner, the Spanish curator for the truth and the proportionality of the Greek State's claims. At the time that I am inclined to support the interests of the Greek State, Mr Kammenos comes today and offends the only Minister who protected the interests of the Greek State through the Parliament on the big subject of the submarines.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u337	A bust, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u338	And now Greece, thanks to our own choices, four modern and a modernized submarine, has a fleet, can be present in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean, can face national and international challenges. He knows very well as a member of the competent committees that the choices I made in 2010 are the choices made by the Greek government to reflect and make sense to 2 billion whole who had given ten years ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Venizelo, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u340	...and 800 million in New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u341	That's enough. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u342	You're closed. The issue of staff has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u343	No, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u344	Three minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u345	Anyone who wants to defend the interests of the public and economic and transnational politicians in this matter must say that what the House voted in 2010 in my report protects the interests of the public, that this actually empowers us and strengthens us and provides us with legal grounds for absolute transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u347	There's the second thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u348	That's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u349	You don't have any more time. That is why you referred to there was a special debate of the House two years ago, to which you spoke seventy-three minutes, if I recall. Repeating every time what has happened since 2010 has occupied the House in public space...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u350	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u351	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u352	You interrupted Mr. Kammenos? Did you call him in class?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u353	What are you talking about? Why would I call him to class? Personnel's out. Thank you, Mr. Venizelo. Mr. Kammenos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u354	No, Mr President, there's the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u355	You don't have any more time. There is no immunity of time, Mr. Venizelo, for no one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u356	No, no. What does the Rules of Procedure provide for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u357	The Rules of Procedure stipulate that the vote should begin at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u358	You broke that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u359	You will not be deprived of the floor by the next speakers, Heads of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u360	You should start the meeting sooner.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u361	And I begged you, kindly understood - and I say it for Mr Theocharis to hear it - that, in the presence of the Heads of the parties, it is not right what you are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u362	It doesn't matter. There's nothing more right than the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u363	Please, you're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u364	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u366	Let me refer to this issue for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u367	No, Mr. Venizelo, please. He said the Minister will answer. He has the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u368	In the context of parliamentary courtesy, we tolerate your presence in contravention of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, Mr Kammenos said my name. I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u370	You, Mr. Leventis, will never speak again. You spoke a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u371	For the PSI...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u372	Please, Mr. Leventis! And you've been talking about the PSI for a long time. The President spoke yesterday about the PSI.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u373	A phrase, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u374	Yes, Mr. Kammenos, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u375	If he was given a chance to do the PSI again, he wouldn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u376	Please, Mr. Leventis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u377	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u378	Please, you've been talking for twenty-seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u379	I'll answer you, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u380	Mr. Kammenos, please wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u381	Mr President, a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u382	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u383	The phrase is the following. In 2012, there was a brave intervention in the debt that benefited the country by more than 200 billion in total at nominal value and at net present value.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u384	But is it possible for these lies to be heard again in the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u385	Because now we all hope that the debt negotiations will begin, so that the country can get something more, something much less, but something necessary and beneficial, we want to help. But to contribute, everyone must understand, admit and confess the size and importance of what happened in 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u386	The size of the country's destruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u387	Yes, sir. Thank you. Mr Venizelos, because you are very experienced indeed and often you are thorough, to facilitate the debate, about the PSI you spoke of - I listened to you, I was a self-sufficient witness - on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and today, Saturday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u388	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u389	Look at the Minutes. They're filed in the Minutes. It is a well-known subject, disputes, controversies and evidence. It's not right now to take more time. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor, please, only for the weapon systems. The PSI will not be discussed again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u390	Good. Unfortunately, Mr Venizelos "has been thrown into the cup of soap".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u391	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Theochari, please. Don't insist, present the party leader. He'll include it in his denture what he is. You have no right. Don't you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u393	She has abolished Mrs. Genomemas from what I can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u394	You have given the floor for personal reasons, Mr President. You'll give me staff too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Venizelos, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u396	You will also give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u397	Sit down! You were appointed by Mr. Venizelos once. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u398	I'll have to answer on staff later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u399	Mr. Kammenos, please. On this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u400	Mr. Venizelos has appointed you once and you are defending him. Sit down. Mr. Venizelo, do you remember Mr. Safa, who you brought him here and walked him in the Arms Commission and the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs? Mr Safa, Mr. Venizelos, grabbed 500 million and "had done it" to tell you it popular. So you have no responsibility for the 500 million saffa grabbed and left? And if you now testify for Greece - and you are doing well - to the Arbitration Committee, why are you testifying? You testify against the man you brought us here as a savior, who took 500 million and left and took two more submarines and never executed them and executed all of them. And of course, you have a personal responsibility. And at some point this responsibility must be attributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u401	Minister, thank you. This debate took place two years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u402	If the submarines are at sea right now, it's because the Navy did it. When you took the state plane with Mr. Nikos Papandreou and went to Abu Dhabi, you didn't tell us what you were doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u403	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u404	We got Safah at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u405	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u406	I shall refer you to the statements from New Democracy and Vangelis Meimarakis in the Committee on Armaments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u407	Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u408	Mr Theocharis has the floor first, because his name has been mentioned twice. Then you for a minute, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no. Give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u410	It's okay. No one's losing the hurricane.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u411	No, please. He's completely missing him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u412	Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u413	Mr President, it is truly regrettable for the House and the Government that the Minister of National Defence is in the position of either not knowing the data at all or distorting them in a criminal mood, as Mr Kammenos has now done. The company managed by Mr. Safas was selected by the shipowners, i.e. the German group "THYSSENKRUPP", not the Greek State. Mr. Safa didn't collect such sums, because all the sums...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u414	Thirty-five thousand dollars!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u415	It did not collect such sums, because these sums had been collected long before we, the Germans from the Greek State, were in exchange for them and without any objection. The only thing we did was to replace the two old submarine modernisation programme with two new ones, with much more interesting economic conditions and I wish you honour them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u417	Second big lie, which you know personally...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u418	No, let go! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u419	...that I went with Mr. Papandreou in Abbu Dhabi. No, Mr. Kammenos. You know that this was done with other people, without my participation and you were always my supporter and my supporter at the time and you beat my shoulder in the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u420	To make timely, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u421	Yes, sir. Thank you. This issue has also been clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u422	You must apologise for not laughing awkwardly because you are guilty of serious slandering and unrelated to your portfolio. You say things every day...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u423	What are we talking about, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u424	...for the country's national defence, sometimes in relation to the United States, sometimes in relation to Turkey, sometimes in relation to Russia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u425	Do you want me to remove your word now? What exactly are you doing, Mr. Venizelo?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u426	And let go of these misery that you're doing as political leader of a party that's just the porn...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u427	By the way, take the plans and bring them back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u428	Mr Venizelos, you have been finished for a while. Mr. Theocharis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr President. I oppose the imperial intervention of the former commemorative minister, Mr Kammenos, in justice, of what he said about Mr Richter. Another Richter needs to explain what Mr Kammenos said. However, it has been mentioned twice in the market of the ten Sinnook Palipals from the company he chose, and when hospital managers ask for drugs, because they cannot do their job, when children go and go to school, at the same time his only choices are whether he will sit souza on Mr. Shoeble or stand on Mr. Kerry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u430	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u431	That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr Theochari. You didn't get used to it, otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u433	Unless he chooses them for another reason. In that case, I hope they'll come quickly, be strong, because they'll need him when he's gone...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u434	Good, yeah. Well, there's no staff linking you to the Sinooks, all right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u436	That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u437	I'll answer. I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u438	Minister, I beg your pardon very much, but that's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u439	In twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u440	Do you know how many political leaders are to speak? Let me tell you that yesterday the meeting ended at 18.30 p.m. This cannot be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u441	Ten seconds. An answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u442	As many seconds as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u443	Of the ten Sinooks it's 15 free of charge from the US government. The money is for the follow support. You should remember, because, when these were agreed, you were Secretary General of the Ministry. I'm sorry you approved them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u444	Yes, sir. Thank you very much. This misunderstanding has been resolved too. Mr. Theodorakis, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u445	Because, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is sad to welcome what Mr Kammenos says, I would say at least that the Members of Crete of SYRIZA or Mr Stathakis will do a course after Mr Kammenos for the Richter case, unless we have sold it all out in this country and this is based on the need to keep a fragile parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u446	Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u447	So let Mr Stathakis tell Mr. Kammenos exactly what is going on. But let's get to the point. I'll speak much less than the other political leaders, so you can have any cliffs after secondarys. The night of the budget, I think, is a good opportunity to talk about the darkness of public spending, the waste of the party state and the waste of the old ones that are going on and the new waste that is added. You will allow me to tell you a story that exists in many economic manuals. One winter morning the tsar went hunting and asked for a jar of fat to shine his boots. So they took his jar and wrote that expenditure into the budget. They wrote 10 rubles. At the end of the year, the previous ones saw that there are 10 rubles of fat in the budget and added 2 more rubles. They did, that is, an adjustment. Next year, 10 rubles became 20 rubles. Next year, they made 100 rubles and 200 rubles. For years they were enrolled in the Russian budget rubles capable of shining the boots of all the Russian people. No one dared to question the original amount.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u448	The tsar.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u449	The bureaucrats considered that this expenditure is useful, that it should not be changed and that it should slowly, over time, be increased. This is how it has been done here in this country for decades, in the endless winter of Greek party administration. I will give you some examples. Of the thirty-one legal entities of the Ministry of Health, the seventy-six were awarded in 2012 with EUR 130 million. Nobody knows how this money was eaten. Today we don't even know the amount all of these legal persons get. The same goes for the Ministry of Rural Development. No one knows how much money is spent on rural development, and if they are caught in a place. I don't know if you guys have counted it, but we've done it. The Ministry has two hundred and eighty-eight sections and directorates-general, ninety-three regional and decentralised services and four hundred-five legal persons, apart from those relating to the rural development of the Ministry of the Environment. No one coordinates the action of all these structures, many of which do the same. In other words, they overlap, without giving any added value to the money they get from the country's budget. The country needs a knife in the wastes, usually benefiting from the privileged, the guilds and those close to the parties. Money must go to the losers of the memoranda and the world of production. However, in a society which is suffocating, this government has other priorities and makes taxes incomplete and charges. And I am not talking about the expenditure that is necessary or that brings results. I am talking about funds going to public waste clean. I can report you some of the spasms. There's something that's timeless. The parties between 1997 and 2014 received EUR 900 million as state grant and the first year of the memorandum, that is, 2009, EUR 72 million from the public funds. We also call on this budget to reduce the money that reaches the political parties and to reduce the public officials working for the political system. We have proposed it since the first day and we have continued to propose it. But let us refer to your new waste. There is a public undertaking that has recorded seven injurious uses. It is the Sugar Industry. This year's budget is budgeted for eighteen public grants of 1,7 billion euros. Most of the money is going to a barrel without the bottom. Instead of being demilitarized and demilitarized, to be saved, they are releasing valuable resources from those in need, because the government wants to benefit certain individuals and specific guilds. The government wants to make certain ruffles. I'll tell you. You're supposed to be evaluating the hospital managers by taking them from a 20-minute interview. It's an old play, we've seen it before. Let them go, some of your people come. The hospital managers, ladies and gentlemen, have a five-year term. You should know that every time the Minister changes, every time the government changes, the governors who are expelled, normally appeal to the courts and are compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u450	They have a three-year term.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u451	They have a three-year term.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u452	They are asking, in other words, for compensation to be paid until the end of their contract. I told you, in fact, that most of the times are rightful. No one knows at the moment - and I imagine the Minister himself, because we asked him and did not give us an answer - how many managers of hospitals, in action and in rules, the Greek people are currently paying. It's the darkness of the party command I told you about. The Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Spirtzis, is involved in new waste. There has been an amendment to the draft law on grazing land, where the grass grows, to double the administrative posts in three public transport agencies. Forty days ago, the majority told us, namely SYRIZA, that the agencies do not need to have double administrations. And they voted, they voted that the agencies should not have double administrations, that is to say, that there should also be no chairman and CEO. And Mr Spirjis came back forty days later and said "I want double administrations, because I have made double promises". He said something else. He said there's not much money. And from New Year's Eve, we're going to have an increase in buses, subways, everywhere, to cover the extra costs of double administrations in these agencies. Our fear is that Mr. Spirtzi's ministry has twelve agencies. If it is intended to double administrations in all twelve agencies, the cost will be around EUR 3 million annually. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 we had a small increase in consumption, according to your data. We have also had an increase in VAT rates since August. Instead of increasing VAT revenue, then, we have a reduction, as the figures say you are presenting. So how do you hit the tax evasion? Increase taxes and reduce revenues. There's a simple word: incompetence. Because when you raise taxes, when you increase taxes and revenues fall, it means you don't hit tax evasion. Watch out now. In your forecast for 2016 you say that we will have a recession, but we will have an increase in revenue. We did not have an increase in revenue with an increase in consumption and an increase in taxes, we will have an increase in revenue in 2016 with austerity! Where? So, ladies and gentlemen, the budget you are presenting to us is another gray, opaque and unfair budget, because there are not even people, and obviously there is no knowledge of something different, and, above all, there is no intention of changing something, nor is this Slovenian state plundering the taxpayers without any reflection. In education, to get one of the many places, you're making cuts of 78 million. Watch out. Of these 78 million, 66 million are cut from public universities. We're not reducing bureaucracy in the Ministries, we're reducing university money. By the way, of course - and you will allow me to open up a parenthesis - we drive away from the universities and those who could tell us how the best universities in the world work. We kicked out Sifakis from Crete, sent Bertsima out of Athens, who, from twenty-six years old, teaches the MIT and left because he did not want, as he said, to be decorative, people who paid in their pocket the expenses to come to Greece to possibly give us some solutions for the many public universities. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece we have a simple budget of revenue and expenditure, and, as I have said, usually according to the Czech standards, that is to say, increased to many costs, without any assessment of expenditure. You will tell me: 'What else could we have?'. We could go to a programme budget. What does that mean? They are budgets that require a programme, actions, monitoring and evaluation of actions, an evaluation of the results at regular intervals, what you have just been unable to do. In Denmark, where there is, of course, a programme budget since 1983 - after their crisis, that is to say, they have gone through these budgets - they give civil servants part of the resources they save from increasing their efficiency. The modern state, ladies and gentlemen, sets targets, evaluates costs, decentralises responsibilities and requires co-responsibility of all the parties involved. You, the SYRIZA - ANEL government, adds new bureaucrats to the old bureaucrats and simply taxs citizens, where they are succeeded. Of course, it is also paid by those with the lowest voice, the weakest, the unemployed and the retired. It has been estimated that bureaucracy in Greece costs 6.8% of GDP, i.e. around 15 billion euros. It is money that leaves the Greek economy to feed exclusively the needs of bureaucracy, production and business. Assuming that these 15 billion were not wasted by the people of production and business to satisfy bureaucracy, we would obviously have 15 billion in investment, recruitment and research. The second time on the left - and I am not sure whether we should say so, if we are still on the 'first time left', but, anyway - this government that we have today presents a budget in the well-known order of the Memorandum Budgets. It presents a budget of pieces and shrouds, which is difficult to find out if the money we give to health, education and defence will be made available. Of course, all this by means of demonstrable procedures for checking the legality of expenditure only and without any procedure for checking their feasibility. It presents a budget that, as everyone says, and not only the anti-population people, cannot be executed because it has holes everywhere. However, it has signs that what is important is that the party and client state remain intact, what the new regime serves with piety. And at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, when the government taxs what moves and does not move, it flies out the window 17 billion. The government had 18 billion banks, and now it has 1 billion sculpture. Not to mention the tens of billions lost in capital controls.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u453	What 17 billion?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u454	I said here at this step a few months ago to the Prime Minister 'caution that the banks will not close'. And the people of SYRIZA said about "and what do you care if the banks close?" You remember that conversation in spring! And the experiments ended up in crime. He's right the one who wrote that our banking system was a car missing a wheel. It wasn't going on. He was just slapping. And foreign funds were willing to pay the value for a wheel, as long as they take the car itself. And you gave it to them. In a few days, ladies and gentlemen, it closes a nightmare year for the Greeks, a year that began with great expectations, because most of you had believed. "The hope comes", said and the desperation came, an unstoppable train of terror, but now it's not a game and will not end up in a smile. In the last few days, Prime Minister, you have been looking for a board of salvation and talking about consensus. You who had divided Greece with care are now saying that we should agree on a programme. You have cut off all bridges with creative Greece, you set up a regime, you appoint friends, relatives and mainly party employees, party believers and now you say "help".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u455	That's how you figured it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u456	The river was and is here to help the country. And in the summer - and you know it very well - we did not measure the political cost and we looked useful for home. But now the useful thing for the country is another. The most useful thing for home is to be toward you. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has shown no desire to change something. Just add darkness to the dark, wasted on the waste. It is therefore clear that we on this road cannot be allies. We're rivals. The River without any humiliation is voting against your budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. Mr. Kotzias, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. The country's foreign policy has principles. It is based on values. He serves the good of the country and the people. It contributes to the relief of society. It produces stability, seriousness, optimism. It defends the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the country. The criteria for foreign policy are national interest, patriotism, the course of the European Union and international developments, international law and internationalism. Our foreign policy is a policy of a Member State of the European Union, which at the same time has special historical and cultural relations, traditions and common heritage with a number of states outside the West. Greece seeks to form a bridge of cooperation between the West and the East. The development of its relations with those countries strengthens its economy and geopolitical position. Greece supports the creation of a Palestinian state without 'yes'. It maintains brotherly relations with the brother Palestinian people, and soon - so I hope - the Greek Parliament, Palestine. I have recently signed a decision in which the entire Greek State is bound to name Palestine a single and everywhere as Palestine. And with pleasure on December 21, 2015, we will welcome Palestinian President Abbas to Athens. At the same time, in a few days from today, the tripartite meeting with Israel and Cyprus will take place in Nicosia. We're making a multi-dimensional foreign policy. In fact, thanks to this multidimensional policy, we have been accepted in Iran as real friends, with thousands of years of common and multitastic history. We started the machine for the development of economic, cultural and social relations. In fact, at the beginning of next year is Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, who also has in Iran, as in all the capitals I have visited, great prestige and popularity. I know that many have a problem with foreign, multidimensional policy. As soon as we see the Americans, they call us American friends. The next time we went to Moscow, they call us Russians. Let's go to China, they call us Chinese friends, Iran Iranians. The truth is simple: we defend everywhere and always the values, interests and fairness of the country. Everywhere, no exception! Our foreign policy is sincere and straightforward. Everyone appreciates that. From what they told me, I was the first foreign minister to talk to the central university in Tehran. Asked by the public and before the canals of this country, with its well-known enemies, I referred to our good relations with Israel and to our dialogue with Turkey, without a second Iranian comment. This fact of our acceptance and mediation between different states, with any difficult relationships, a certain domestic criticism of action reminds us of bad stories in which the evil and 'involved' dragon flies directly from Israel to Iran. You see, when there's no substance in criticism, then there's absolutely nonsense. And we see this in the fact that the micropolitical, parapolitical, urban conceptual couple is adopted as a dialectic. The fact that we have been able to have good relations at the same time as countries that are in conflict, even rivalry, is the result of our active multi-dimensional foreign policy. Similarly, in the international forums and in the UN, we are voting on the basis of our own interests and choices. We are not for any reasons, except for the Greek people and with him in his service. We supported the development of the Palestinian flag, which the pre-election government refused. We also supported the resolutions on debt. In the context of our multi-dimensional policy, we have good relations with Russia, as the respective announcements by my counterpart Sergei Lavrov have shown. But at the same time we have very good relations with the United States, as John Kerry's presence in Athens proved yesterday. Indeed - and it is interesting - the US Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed before international media that refugee is not a Greek problem, but a global problem, that it is a problem of peace in Syria itself, where we support a political solution based on a new constitution, with honest elections in which Syrian refugees will also participate. In order to avoid misunderstandings about what is being heard, we unequivocally rejected in NATO any thought of Greece's involvement in military operations, whether as a state or with NATO. With this attitude, we are now collecting our fruits for the initiatives we have taken to defend religious and cultural communities in the Middle East. After the International Conference that was successfully crowned in Athens, we are talking there with all the Patriarchs, with the predestined Islam, Judaism, the Catholic and Protestant Church, with politicians from all these countries and scientific centres from the Netherlands - dealing with the Middle East -, Pakistan and India. We agreed to set up an international forum in Athens - an observatory of the rights of these communities and their support. Our multidimensional policy is linked to the fact that as a European country - member of the European Union, we have become a bridge of friendship with Latin American states and especially with South-East Asian countries. At the recent Asia and the European Union meeting, the side of the People's Republic of China thanked us very much for the mediating role we played successfully in order to overcome the contradictions. There are a number of problems in our relations with Turkey for Greek foreign policy. I accompanied the Prime Minister in Istanbul and Ankara to meet with productive content. We stressed the need to stop overcrowding and violations of territorial waters. At the same time, we relaunched our relations. There will be visits by both sides in the near future. The main issue, of course, for Greek foreign policy is the fair solution of the Cyprus issue. We, unlike Turkey, do not interfere within the Greater Island. We are protecting its independence and sovereignty with this. As part of the 1959 and 1960 European Union guaranteeing force and at the same time a Member State - Member State - we have stated from the outset that the solution of the Cyprus problem must, firstly, go hand in hand with European law, without permanent differences in the four fundamental freedoms, and secondly, with the abolition of the guarantee scheme, the withdrawal of the occupation troops, the creation of a security system for the Republic of Cyprus. Greece's foreign policy is also active. Unlike many, we do not believe that inertia leads somewhere else, apart from pouring problems and smelling water. Life has proved to need initiatives, bold policies and firm promotion. Experience shows that third parties will intervene where there is inertia. Today we are not only moving towards the re-energisation of the Romania, Bulgaria and Greece, which have rightly promoted previous governments as a Balkan cooperation, but we are planning and implementing the creation of an alliance of more states in Southeast Europe with regard to their own internal developments and negotiations in the Union. It is well known that in spring I made a public proposal to FYROM to launch confidence-building measures in order for cross-border cooperation. This idea was initially rejected by Skopje, as well as by third parties. Life has justified us. I personally believe that Greece must be taught by its history, believe and rely on it and exploit it, to care for its continuity, without becoming a prisoner. This applies in particular to our relations with Albania, to relationships with open issues, for which we need to find a package of mutually beneficial solutions, to formulate this in a renewed friendship agreement, a continuation of the friendship agreement of the 1990s. Of course, in order to do this, the rights of the indigenous Greek minority must be guaranteed in our neighbour. Greece must keep the gheems for principle initiatives stable and not resort to procedures that today seem easy, but the costs will be high tomorrow. We are pursuing a policy that rejects the pressures, which promotes our specialisation as a force for negotiation, arbitration and mediation between states that have difficulty in understanding, even in opposing forces. We believe in these virtues and practices, but they are not practices for which we can speak publicly. I would like to remind you here that thanks to this multi-dimensional foreign policy only in the last month we have had three major successes internationally: the election to the UNESCO address, first as a country of votes, the election to the respective International Organisation for Migration, the election of Professor Riku in the UN secondary court. I have left the European Union as last but most importantly. We are trying to find the Union's values and principles, that adhesive that can keep it together to a democratic and socially fair path, against its current neoliberal dogmatism. It is imperative that the European Union move away from a neoliberal concept, which restricts its external action to sanctions, exclusion and punishing acts, a concept that has often accompanied it with threats. Europe must change towards the more social, more progressive. And that's why we're fighting. We consistently propose an open and democratic debate on its own future, which neoliberal forces find it difficult to accept. We want a debate on what Europe we want in the 21st century and above all on the security architecture itself on the continent as a whole. Our foreign policy has taken a step forward. And that's too much of her financial problems. Systemically, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and professionally ensures the interests of the country. Confidence creates hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u459	Mr Kotzias did the amazing thing: he stopped just 12 minutes. He's unbelievable. Multidimensional. Mr Koutsoubas, President of the JRC Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u460	Anyone who had believed the government's election fairy tale of tough negotiations aimed at alleviating the people would be worth only taking a look at the draft report from this year's budget tabled by the Minister of Finance, for two reasons. The first is that it is an open, official confession about the class orientation of the current government, that is to say, without prejudice to the objectives of capital. Contrary to Mr Tsipras's various accounts, which were made for popular consumption, a painful compromise of the government, following the hard blackmail of Shoeble, we read in the report about the many benefits of the agreement - the third memorandum, namely - which ultimately led to the restoration of market confidence for the prospects of the Greek economy. Accordingly, the new anti-grassroots restructurings included in the budget are pointed out to be aimed at strengthening the investment climate, increasing the entrepreneurship and competitiveness of the Greek economy, that is, the monopolistic groups, in order to come to an understanding. The second reason why this year's budget deserves our attention is because it is a formal summary of the works, plans and pursuits of the ruling left, which fully reveals its genuinely dangerous role. A year of governance on the left of capital was enough to break the soap bubble about the philosophical management of capitalism. No propaganda find can hide that the current government not only aims to alleviate the populace, but on the contrary escalates the attack on income, on all the rights of our people. No communication term can hide that Mr Tsipras' government has undertaken to end all the anti-grassroots work that the previous governments have failed: to pass all the choices of the ruling class of capitalists with a climate of class cooperation, social consensus and even social tolerance. This is the known urban strategy, the recovery of capital profitability, the upgrading of the country's role as a power and freight hub, the attraction of large foreign investments and the safeguarding of relevant Community funding. These objectives serve the measures included in the budget for accelerating privatisation, restructuring, in order to ensure low wages, low-interest rates, with no rights, new areas of high-efficiency, i.e. capital. And in this direction, as was expected, the recommendations of the European Central Bank and the interim report on the monetary policy of the Bank of Greece tabled yesterday by Mr Stournaras. In simple terms, they say that, in order to recover capital, the memorials and anti-grass restructurings and prerequisites must be applied to the antenna. In addition, the overall reform of the urban political system is being attempted today, by the use of every reactionary and conservative reserve of capital, whether with those in blurred rivers and waters of either known and not exceptional to others who have heard them and tonight, to play the role of the rabbit - in circus, of course - and, of course, by the closest, all of them, the perpetrator has moved, well-known characters of the criminal Nazi organization, which, from invader battals now, are sniffing into this Parliament's Chamber, until they say, the difficult moment with trial and the rest, is going back to the same crimes from there and beyond. It is not a secret that the late disguise of the PASOK and the reform of the New Democracy is attempting, in all ways, to try to ensure that there are ready alternatives to civil cooperation governments, as well as to convenient future anti-political forces. The escalation of the anti-grass attack is evident in all key aspects of government policy. First of all, the budget incorporates all the anti-grassroots measures of the previous governments, the governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK. Taxation provides for a further increase of EUR 1.3 billion in tax revenues from unfair indirect taxes, such as VAT, which are borne in a uniform manner by unequal incomes. Beyond the take-off of VAT, employees and pensioners will be forced by the reform of the tax scale, self-employed people with an increase in the advance payment of income tax, while farmers will be subject to multiple blows, since the new regulations on oil consumption are on the way. At the same time, the various monopolist groups will bear less than 10% of the costs of the new government budget interventions. On the side of the cut in government expenditure, the lion's share relates to reductions in pensions and wages, as well as cuts in funding and care and social security institutions. At the same time, it is planned to accelerate privatisation, including ports, regional airports, fillet regions, such as the Greek one, and of course the strategic energy sector. In the two years 2015-2016 SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence loads the people with new additional burdens, which exceed seven billion euros. The burden on the people can be further increased, deteriorated immediately, if the budget forecasts are revised. Then the semi-automatic new cut in government expenditure through the budgetary policy mechanism will be triggered. We are not talking about a possible possibility here, given the international developments relating to the slowdown and the economy of China, the recession in Japan, the anemic and unequal recovery of the euro area. At the same time, the government continues to forcefully repeat its declarations of fairness, says, burden-sharing and relief to the economically weaker. It advertises the reduction of budgetary requirements in relation to previous governments and the guarantee of a budget area of EUR 19 billion. Let us leave the reasons why these adjustments have been made - which were no longer the worsening course of the Greek economy - and let us come to the main issue. Who benefited and who benefited? Is there any recovery of the huge losses that the people's family had during the crisis? What did retired people win? Unsubstantiated hits with new retentions on the main and supplementary pensions, an increase in the retirement threshold to sixty-seven. What have taxpayers won? New burdens by maintaining and increasing the ENPIA, carpeting, increasing the rates of taxation of income. Even the one hundred-dollar adjustment, your government's tax esmerger turned it into a debt write-off of 188 million euros from two hundred and eight big ones, who owe more than one million euros each. None of the measures planned by the government, such as the electronic booklet, for example, is aimed at the great guilty person in this situation, who is no more than the monopoly capital. The next storm of anti-grass measures will lead to conditions of real suffocation by thousands of popular households. In insurance, you prepare for the complete demolition of any right left in social security, with constant reductions in supplementary pensions, one-off benefits, so that we can finally guarantee the State only for a major hunger pension. This will also form the attractive framework for private insurance and occupational funds, which both the President of BSE and the European Union require. The state budget is the vehicle for new overturns in the social security system. Civil servants will also be faced with the next day with the new wage bill, the new evaluation and mobility system, the self-employed with the new measures of the OECD toolbox, each of the people's families with new cuts in state health expenditure. The only ones who benefited and will continue to benefit from your policy, gentlemen of the government, are the local and foreign monopolies. They are already benefiting from Community funding, from the old and new NSRF, from the Public Investment Programme. Their profitability is served by the new state budget. Overall, the monopoly capital and not only the private shareholders of the banking groups benefited from the new recapitalisation of the banks, which charged the taxpayers, i.e. the burdens of the banks on the people of red business loans, and the exodus of capital and foreign deposits in conditions of major capitalist crisis. This option was also supported by the New Democracy and the PASOK and the Potami, which are now hypocritically chopping, we would say about the losses of the state following this recapitalisation process. And within all of this, you are still talking about the great goal of debt write-down. You hide that every debt haircut is accompanied by an escalation of the anti-grass attack. Improving any conditions for repayment of debt does not concern our people. It does not lead to any recovery of even a few losses during the crisis. Of course it will benefit some domestic and foreign groups. You confess to it yourself, gentlemen of the government, when you are aiming to create enough financial space to support investment. Just serve the same interests as all previous governments. But worsening for the people is not just about his income. The efforts of the government and the entire civil system as a whole to serve the objectives of the country's ruling order to upgrade the country's geopolitical role and to participate in the new market sharing in the Eastern Mediterranean region, increase the risk of peace, the sovereign rights of the people. The government is willing to signify NATO and the European Union's intervention plans, at a time when all the contradictions between imperialist centres are exacerbating to control the wider Eurasian region from Ukraine and the Balkans to the Middle East and North Africa. The latest developments demonstrate how dangerous to the people are the goals of the domestic urban order and the government in the context of NATO and the European Union's imperialist alliances. Both the European Commission and the German Government are pressing towards the common guarding of the Greek borders, that is, the juncture with Turkey in the Aegean Sea, even with fear of the expulsion of Greece by the Schengen Treaty and the capture of hundreds of thousands of immigrants and refugees within the country. Community media, leading European officials characterize holes as Swiss cheese at the Greek border. These pressures are being exerted, and it is well known that Greece has no land borders with other countries under the Schengen arrangements. And we are not reassured by today's statements that the climate is changing somehow. Whatever theme opens up we say, it's turned out we'll find it in front of us tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. This is to be clean to the Greek people first of all. You know it, you just hide it. In the same direction of compromise and joint patrols with Turkey, the United States of America is also pressing, leveraging the threat of restoring the visa regime for Greek travellers. At the same time, relations - known as Turkey and Russia - are increasing, following the collapse of the Russian military aircraft. All these developments show that the immediate removal of Greece from the imperialist plans of NATO and the European Union, in general, from all this box of intra-imperialist antagonisms and contradictions, is a matter of life and death for our people. The government has enormous responsibilities, as it has accepted the country's military involvement in turbulence in the region, with the acceptance of the activation of Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union and the signing of NATO's dangerous also decisions on 1 and 2 December, which pave the way for a more active role in the design of the lupus alliance. Significantly, NATO, but also yesterday the US Secretary of State, John Kerry, - and even on an official visit to our country, within our territory - gave Turkey full coverage of its ongoing violations in the Aegean, further mocking the Greek people in the answer that Greece - Turkey is allies to NATO. I mean, take him to your wedding to tell you next year. To expect, finally, the intensity of Ankara's challenges against our sovereign rights after Kerry's blessing. As for the Cyprus issue, which Mr Kotzias said earlier, it seems that the imperialists are rushing to move on to a new Annan plan, even worse than the previous one and as soon as possible. I mean, more black and spidery. The people must organise their counter-response now, so that they do not once again pay for the consequences of the crisis, so that they do not spill their blood into an unjust imperialist war, in foreign interventions, which have nothing to do with the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u461	Please, be quiet. Excuse me. Go ahead, Mr. Kutsuba.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u462	It doesn't bother me. They can do their job if they don't want the gentlemen to hear. The Greek people must coordinate their steps with every popular movement in the wider region, which marks and marks the true guilty, the imperialist centres, the urban order of each country. To prevent any project threatening the peace, the sovereign rights of the peoples of the region, the sovereign right of the Greek people. It must not allow its children to become meat in the cannons of people's molluscs for the interests of the urban classes either in Greece or Turkey or in all kinds of allied allies. It is not time for either endurance or tolerance of this dangerous anti-popular government policy. Can't let the fired 50 wait when he'll be sixty-seven years old to retire. The young man can't wait ten years to get his first job. The worker cannot live daily with insecurity if he is fired, if he loses his home, if he finds money to educate his children. He cannot be a man forty - nine years old, fired after years of work, as someone with soul pain told me the other day at the strike gathering of PAME, to finally find a job after a thousand sufferings, as a man - fifty - year - old - old - with a 16 - year - old, without insurance, that the boss should not have a job every week, namely, to have no gift, to spend two days, Christmas and New Year’s feasts, with his children, his family. Where's this situation going? In your policy, of course, it is not going anywhere. From evil to worse will be for many, for the majority of the Greek people. "That's what he said to me, "you have to show up in the House everywhere," and this man who works for the dividend and a number of other workers and workers who protested the day before yesterday at the strike gatherings and the rallys. They're right. This is what the JRC is trying to do, proposing solutions at the same time, which are no other than the path that our people must finally follow in order to get out of the crisis in the interests of their own and only interests, with radical changes everywhere in society and the economy and the state as a whole in the rotten capitalist system with fundamental overturns. We say there's a way out. There is a road to satisfying our needs, it is enough to believe and test our powers. There are many workers and even workers who doubt whether what we say can become a reality. 'Even if we believe them', some say. We tell them clearly that what we are proposing can be done. We can live better with our children and us. The people have all the power. To be effective, he must learn to use it, to use this great power properly. It is not time for another lost time with false consents, set up - supposedly - for dialogue, new unfulfilled expectations from the political staff who has deceived and continues to deceive the Greek people, with the sole aim of manipulating his struggle, his movement, to make these barbaric measures easier to pass. The steps taken in the various strikes in the last 12 November and 3 December show that these outbreaks of resistance can multiply, these outbreaks of counter-attack, in every workplace, in every branch, in every city and village, in every region around the country. Occupational class unity and struggle is the answer. Folk social alliance everywhere. Counselling with the JRC. These are the keys to a better tomorrow with the people in power, dominating all the wealth they produce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u464	I want a good comment now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u465	And you were shorter. Two minutes ago, you're done. Kotzias stayed behind a lot. Be well! The debate is closed, President-in-Office of the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a very brief reference to refugee. Prime Minister - unfortunately, he has left the Chamber - every crisis you are managing, every negotiation that you make leads us to the margin of European developments. It has the effect of other Europeans thinking that Greece does not belong to the West, but that it is an Oriental province. And honestly, we don't deserve that. Ideas and amateurs have given rise to extremist voices in the European Union about expulsion of our country from the single Schengen area. Instead of internationalising the refugee problem, you have turned it into a national problem. The delays in the implementation of the country's obligations are increasing Turkey's negotiating power and this has become absolutely apparent at the last summit. If no immediate measures are taken, the crisis at our northern borders will be transferred to the large urban centres. The naughty government's retreat to the question of FRONTEX has demonstrated the sloppyness with which you are moving. I saw the relevant Minister myself. We tabled concrete proposals at the last meeting of the leaders of the Socialist parties. We agreed to agree on a common framework on the board of political leaders under the President of the Republic. And I would like to stress here that it was a disastrous mistake by the New Democracy that divided the necessary national front in this matter, as was a disastrous mistake, Prime Minister, who used the meeting of the political leaders for communication purposes and triples. It is time to formulate a single national strategy for refugee and major national issues, for the Cyprus issue, for Skopje, for relations with Turkey. They're in a critical curve and you're handling them yourself. It is now time for responsibility and action. I therefore call on the Government to take the relevant initiative and the Civic Opposition not to insist on its objections. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating is SYRIZA's first budget. It is the budget of an inappropriate memorandum. If, for the previous memorials, responsibilities have to be found over time in the pathogens of the Greek economy, the last memorandum is the heavy legacy of the inability and insufficiency of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Speaking today about the 2016 budget, we have the opportunity, firstly, to appreciate what changed a year in Greece with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The budget has as a central feature the recession. In our recession, you have returned, Mr. Tsipras. He didn't come from the sky. Triple polls, fleeing deposits, capital controls, awkward absorptions from the NRP, brooms in the funds of all public bodies. Secondly, we have the opportunity to appreciate where we are going for the next few years. The forecasts last year saw growth in the two years 2015-2016 totalling about 6%. Mr. Tsakalots speaks of a recession of about 2% over the two years. This difference means in the mid-term four unemployment units and less than EUR 1.6 billion in the insurance funds per year. The recession, in a direct or indirect way, has a catalytic effect on all the major issues with which we are faced. Insurance is the first to pay her. Increasing unemployment by 1% means a loss of revenue of 400 million for the insurance funds. The taxpayers' pocket is the next victim of the recession and the debt for which so much discussion is held as a percentage of GDP is growing with the recession. So the answer to where we're going is one clear: it's all backwards quickly on all the fronts. The account of the administration of SYRIZA - ANEL is expected to be particularly heavy for Greeks and Greeks. GDP will be 8.7 billion below forecasts and 2 billion below 2014. The tax revenue targets fell out by EUR 4.2 billion, even when the government's dues are increasing by 58%. Investments fell by 27%. The public debt will be formed in 2016 at 188% of GDP, increased by nine percentage points in two years. The rapid and unacceptable recapitalisation of the banks resulted in the value of the shares of the State, namely the Greek taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the government's last line of defence is the so-called argument that it conflicts with the powerful and supports the weak. It is the 'left footprint' for which Mr Juliarakis spoke to us. But Mr Tsakalotos confessed and said: we were wrong. We didn't bring time measures against tax evasion. This is an important confession, but it's half the truth. Not only were they left in the omissions, because the evidence professed to give thanks, they deleted with the known regulation of the act of legislative content of 190 million in grandeurs, that is, what they needed in order not to cut the NSA for 2016 to the low pensioners. So who did they collide with? What is the 'left footprint' of their policy, when they bring a provision that will cut the ESS first for 20% of the low pensioners and then for all? The measures to combat poverty fell to 108 million compared with 455 million in 2014. You are singing at EUR 106 million the heating allowance for our very poor fellow citizens and still has not opened the system and we are on December 5. The pensions, even the small ones, were cut by 3%. The auctions were released for 75% of borrowers, and the threat to first residence is now there. And there are also the foreign funds that will deal with red business loans. It's those little chicks they used to say. Analgesia is even greater when they do not receive any care at all for the first residence of people with disabilities. And still not assigned to travel cards for 2015. The programmes against unemployment, the OAS, are delaying, so there is currently a surplus in the Agency of 504 million due to inertia. They're sitting there waiting. There is no job to make use of these amounts. When we still have 330 million from the Anti-Poverty Fund, money that we secured last December, when from Genoa is without funding for forty-four disabled children's daily care centres - supports these centres for a thousand four hundred and thirty children - and, of course, when hospital staff have been reduced by six thousand and the necessary recruitments are delayed, we need no more, ladies and gentlemen, to understand that there is no 'print', there is not even a trace of social policy. We are particularly sceptical about the government and about the follow-up, with the banks, in fact, not yet able to finance the economy, with the inability to manage and with the complete lack of plan, with the SYRIZA ideas - ANEL to make the Juncker Development Package a blank letter, because it finances proposals that go through with the PPP method. As you know, these methods cause vertigo to the government. Where do they expect growth to start again in Greece, when they have conflicted with anyone who has invested or come to invest in Greece? Privatisation is delayed or undermined by the ministers themselves. Tourism is affected, while at the same time increasing VAT on hotels, focusing and abolishing reduced VAT on the islands. In the agricultural sector, there is absolutely no reconstruction plan. Subsidies and allowances are being delayed. Farmers are threatened with tax extermination and a triple of their contributions. Whatever it produces, what is innovative and exportable is an enemy. Taxation in wines and the almost tax on Greek brewery is characteristic. The Ministry of Infrastructure does not deal with public works. He's dealing with party work. Metro projects have been frozen. Thousands of fourteen works have been blocked and frozen. In 2015, there are no new works auctions from the Ministry. The new development law has been announced seven times by the Minister. If it were not so serious, I could say that it has become a joke. Also, 1.5 billion euros are at risk of being lost from the current NSRF. Now they are discussing transferring to the new. This, however, results in 40% of the new being committed. Small and medium-sized enterprises have been abandoned in their luck. Capital controls intensified their liquidity problems, while the government does not even deal with reducing the costs of excessive bank supplies for electronic transactions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also heard about reforms, about changes in a number of areas that the country really needs. But what reforms have we seen in practice? Instead of the deep intersection in the state you are setting up a client state "logue". Just a few days ago the Minister for Infrastructure again, a pioneer in this area, doubled administrative staff in his area of responsibility. How do we say "there are a lot of ruffles here"? The government is tearing down education, with or without Baltas, and is bringing rupee-based amendments, so as to suit the executives of primary and secondary education. He looks indifferently at the degradation of the ESS. The law on the regulation of the broadcasting landscape and media licences is threatening to become an interest-free negotiating body. Of course it removes powers from the regions and strangles the municipalities financially. And I'm coming to insurance. The budget, ladies and gentlemen, includes some 1.7 billion cuts in social security. You can't say you won't cut pensions. You play with scripts and you do not present any specific proposal. You baptize the meat fish, you change names - that you have learned to do very well - and in the end do what the troika has been asking for since last year. You change the replacement rates to achieve a reduction in pensions. We will not vote for a reduction in pensions. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We were accused by the Minister of Government of political cowardice, because we in PASOK did not apply vigorously what SYRIZA currently applies. Indeed, we resisted and negotiated. And we had succeeded in not keeping what you accept today. In other words, we did not hand over to speculative funds the houses of the Greeks. We did not consent to new wage and pension reductions. We did not give in to the pressures for extermination of farmers. We didn't sign up for team redundancies. Because PASOK served the people and the country over time. And if that is why you call us cowards, I answer you directly: You are abundant. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Dignity, resistance, feeling of uplifting and national pride are words that the Prime Minister has used many times in the past. Very quickly, however, they have been replaced by fatalism, uncertainty, insecurity and subjection. Greeks and Greek women don't really know what dawns them. They don't know what's gonna happen with their home, their property, their work, their business. For the first time the country and nation have been in chaos and void. For the first time Greeks feel unprotected. As the budget under discussion shows, the deficits will be dealt with in terms of pensions, wages, new taxes and charges - for whom? - for poor and medium-sized households. However, the greatest cost caused by the SYRIZA - ANEL government is the extinction of the Greek economy. The banks were donated, with the recent recapitalisation, to the markets. In other words, speculative funds will decide on the fate of our country's economy, on what investments are approved and what is not, what is going to happen with the Greeks' homes and property. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago Mr Tsipras and his partner blocking the election of the President of the Republic led the country to early elections. They were won by exploiting the false memorandum - antimony, the poison with which they strengthened the political life and division of Greek citizens. A country coming out of the crisis, which had decided to pass through the memos on the preventive credit line, which saw positive growth rates, primary surpluses and, of course, a reduction in unemployment, a country and a society that achieved this with very serious sacrifices at all levels, but sacrifices that seemed to be taking place. But, in the summer, instead of getting out of the memorials, we almost got out of the euro, following the infamous strategy "I will set my jacket on and I will hug you to burn together if you don't give me what I want". And while we were blushing, they were preparing their plan to ensure that we burn ourselves or, in fact, we burn our jacket, and no one else. The plan was prepared, written and came to the table. The problem, Mr Tsipras, is that you still do not understand the strategic defeat suffered by the country in the summer. As we understood it, we understood very well what happened and mainly where the country was driving, we supported not you but the country. And by the way, let us stop this cave for our so-called inconsistency this summer to vote for the agreement and now not to vote on the implementing laws. Refer a little to the Minutes on 13 August, and you will remember that at the same time as we voted on this agreement that was panicked, we made our position clear in time. We have also proposed a specific road map of steps and actions. Above all, to avoid any sacrifice of the elections until the country is put on safe ground and to exploit the great acquis of the political and social consensus that has been established. And we have become quite specific since, not now, our disagreement on new pension cuts, on extermination of farmers' taxes, on collective redundancies and on auctions. We have also warned that the relevant implementing laws, to have our support, must be treated seriously between the political forces and, of course, with the partners. None of this happened. The really acidic and outrageous is that Mr. Tsipras resigned for inconsistency when he threw all our proposals in the basket and the same consensus we reached during the summer, proclaimed the elections and rushed to form a government with the same problems that the previous one had. But no matter how much lies they say about us, we will continue to tell the truth about them. And please, Prime Minister, do not talk about Portugal again unless you want to make self-criticism. Because there the socialists do not identify themselves with extreme right-wing avoidances, because there they are talking openly about a progressive programme. Because you have embraced both your right-wing policy and your right-wing partners. Don't vain. The most right-wing politician in the country is you yourself, that's the truth. You have attempted to take possession, it is assumed, in the great area of the centre-left and in the forum that you have fully taken over the area of the right, and indeed with such success, that you have created problems for the traditional forces of the conservative space. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Enough hypocrisy. Follow what the poet says: “And if you can’t make your life as you want it, then at least try, as long as you can, don’t humiliate it.” And one last thing. Because I have watched government officials slander on demand and speak of committees of inquiry, I tell them one: they are not touching us, extortion or extortion, we are not making any setbacks. I propose that we agree directly on all the sides of the House to set up a committee of inquiry on how the crisis was created, how we reached the memoranda, what the results of the financial derailment were in the New Democracy over the period 2004-2009, the second derailment, which led to the third memorandum, and what was done both with the PSI and with the recent bank recapitalisation. All in the light! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] What needs to be investigated about the situation in which the country and the citizens arrived: From the entry into EMU to the present day. We're not afraid of anything. This is Rhodes, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And I really challenge anyone who is interested in the truth to sign up. However, anyone who does not do so has no right to squeeze after transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, we will insist on a wider understanding and shaping of a national framework for the final exit from the crisis. We are, however, opposed to any proposal to create fronts, either as a so-called European front with New Democracy or as a so-called progressive front with SYRIZA. Both of these logically will at this time harm our country exactly the same. We insist on our own course, our own autonomous speech. So, a dialog of national understanding? Yeah, I'd be happy to. But here, in Parliament, with open doors, with clear proposals, not with steadfast situations, which undermine the authority of the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Assent is voting against the budget. But we're not staying on this. It is not our intention to wait for the government's rapid or non-democratic deterioration to win a few units in the next elections. The country cannot be caught in the memorials. Citizens cannot only wait fatally for the new burden of their lives, the new cut, the new tax and suffocate, without hope and perspective. We must guarantee Greek citizens a better life. We owe them that. Politicians owe it. And in order to achieve this, we need to relaunch the economy. Investments, which will bring growth, income, jobs. We should give the signal with large foreign investments and the use of public property, the signal that uncertainty and risks are definitely in the past. And then, on the basis of a national development plan, we must mobilise all the productive forces of the place, tourism, agricultural production, small and medium-sized enterprises, energy and shipping. We must support them with incentives, with resources from the NSRP and the necessary infrastructure. And at the same time to change the state, the administration, the conditions of justice, the tax system, health and education systems with progressive reforms. This is the overall real agenda for national consultation. Does it look like a dream? Oh, no. It can come true. Society is ready to join in this. The current government cannot. As long as you can't, we'll start it, with initiatives and proposals, with dialogue with society and its institutions, in order to create a new, strong, progressive social and political majority current, which will take the case in its hands. We lift the sleeves to rebuild Greece, because Greece is worth it and it can be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Madam President. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, has the floor. For 15 minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget is part of a broader medium-term plan, which aims not only to address the symptoms, but, above all, to address the causes of the crisis that led us to this end. And I see some representatives of the old parties denying history, as if our people had no idea where we started, where we were from. It is therefore a question of laying the foundations for a new model of economic and social development, which will pave the way for the new generation and try to exploit the potential of our times and our country in particular. In this broader horizon, the following year, and in particular the next six months, is particularly critical. Based on the planning of the government project, immediately after the banks were recapitalised at the beginning of next year, the first evaluation of the programme is expected to be carried out. The debate will follow and - we believe - the debt agreement. In the meantime, we expect capital controls to be lifted in the first few months, so-called capital controls, and we expect the European Central Bank to take the measures it needs to take to normalise the financing of the economy. In the meantime, the recession is expected to be somewhat milder than originally calculated and it is common to assume that in the second half we can go to a recovery in the economy. With this in mind, the country's credit rating is expected to be upgraded and it is not excluded that dialogue with the markets at the end of next year will be able to begin, with the aim of being able to borrow from both the State and the banks and a wider business cycle. Finally, around 80% of the measures provided for in the agreement we have signed with lenders are expected to have been implemented by the middle of next year. If, in these two months, there were indeed Memorandum measures - let us say so - in character and only a small number of measures were part of what we call a 'parallel programme', the ratio is expected to be reversed by the middle of next year. The Memorandum Measures will be increasingly less and the measures relating to changes that our society needs, as well as development policies, will define the policy pursued. For the present government, the implementation of the agreement with lenders is a contractual obligation we honour. But the memorials are not the horizon of government policy, as was the case with the governments so far. And it is not because the memos cannot get us out of the crisis, because the crisis we have is a crisis not just budgetary. It was a crisis of the productive model, it was a crisis in general the way in which the economy and society were developed. That is why the crisis will bring us all these changes in the state, the economy and the institutions that will lay the foundations, as I have already said, to create a new model of development on the basis of new values, the values of justice, solidarity and equality. And it is precisely these changes that we want to promote. Since many people are asking what is, at last, this parallel programme, I would like to briefly mention that it is a parallel programme that you, the PASOK and the New Democracy did not do while you were ruling. It is those changes that have been made in other countries by urban governments, by social democratic governments and even by right-wing governments, but in our country some of them have been pending since the time of Trikoupi or Venizelos. We are still talking about a register, about a room, about enormous disparities in the tax system, etc., measures and policies, which, as I said, in other countries have long been dealt with. They are what the Communist Party of Greece once called "urgent modernisations", which we did not reject as the Left, but we wanted to implement them in conjunction with the resolution of the social problem. And that's exactly what we're gonna do. We will face such problems not fragmentary, but combined with divisions, ruptures and transformations, which come from the future and are aimed at a society and an economy that has the centre of man and its needs and not the profits and the surpluses and others. It's our government's best bet. That will be the fingerprint, to which Mrs Genemata referred, and I would recommend a little patience, to make it clearer. I come to the question of recapitalisation, which has been heard a great deal and quite irresponsiblely - to allow me to say - by the most important responsible for the situation of the country and the banks. Recapitalisation and its success is an important station, firstly, because there were opinions and forces that sought the recapitalisation to be linked to the first assessment. There were opinions and attempts were made to recapitalisation next year, under the burden of a directive requiring deposits to be haircuts. And that is the first thing we wanted and we were able to prevent. Secondly, it was important because at the beginning of this procedure no one expected - and I am sure much more here - or in any case no one was sure that all four systemic banks would be able to raise the necessary resources and funds, even for their essential needs, from private capital. However, this has been achieved. Thirdly, because in the way that was planned and recapitalised it limited the credit requirements enough, to the limit of EUR 6 billion, instead of the EUR 20 billion or 25 billion that many people have said. What is the situation after the banks were recapitalised? In Piraeus about 26% of the shares belong to the State through the CFS, the Financial Stability Fund. The additional 40% belongs to domestic investors. Overall, domestic investors account for 66%. I believe that Mrs Genemas will reread her speech and notice exactly what she said from the Step forward about malignancies and so on. In the National Bank 41% of the shares belong to FX and 12% - perhaps more - are held by other domestic private investors. In total, more than 53% is held by domestic investors. In both, therefore, larger Greek banks the participation of public and domestic investors is crucial. The cries therefore have nothing to do with the reality of the banking system. However, even in Alpha Bank, due to the large dispersal of the shares, the State via the CFS is the most important single shareholder with 11%. Both Alpha Bank and Eurobank, the State participates with the Board of Directors with strong responsibilities and veto possibilities on a number of critical issues. The conclusion is that there is, of course, a new banking system, in which many players play a part. Among these, however, it also plays an important public role, not only because of or through its shares, but mainly because it is the factor shaping the institutional framework of the banks. What has he done - to come to another question - necessary to recapitalise the banks? Why did it happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u469	Ladies and gentlemen, please do a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u470	The new recapitalisation is not a follow-up to the past, but it comes just to correct errors and prevent risks involved in the previous recapitalisations. Why? Because the new recapitalisation has become necessary not because of the capital controls, as some people say, but because the previous recapitalisations, firstly, have not adequately shielded the banks from risks, secondly, they have not been accompanied by a plan to deal with red loans and it is paradoxical to talk about banks' values, when non-hazardous loans are constantly accumulated within them and funds are frozen. Thirdly, because the previous recapitalisations were not designed in terms of public interest, but, on the contrary, they were designed in terms of serving special interest groups, including old shareholders and old administrations, which were protected in an unprecedented and scandalous manner worldwide by specific legislation preventing any kind of intervention or change. That is why any references to committees of inquiry, as far as we are concerned, do not constitute threats, but duty and obligation of the House, because, as I said before, the bank file has not yet been opened. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] After all, as it may have already been known, after the approval of the Governing Council for Economic Policy I have sent a letter to the Bank of Greece, to the Association of Greek Banks, to the Financial Stability Fund and to the Securities and Markets Committee, and I ask them to submit reports to Parliament - each institution from its own perspective - to answer all the questions you have raised with questions or otherwise on the development of the financial system as a whole from the crisis and, of course, on the recapitalisations, including the latter. But it is important for the future. After completion of the recapitalisation, our programme, our policy, sets out the following objectives: The first objective is to complete and implement the institutional framework for the rapid response of the huge problem of red loans, without which we cannot actually talk about banks, or about relaunching the economy or investment. The second objective is to assess the administrations - and this will be done for the first time - not only of the individuals, but above all of the structures and functions of each bank. On this occasion, the question of arrogance will also be reviewed in certain cases as regards the remuneration of senior bank managers. And I remind you here that the government where it could have done it. Reduce remuneration to the Financial Stability Fund. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Our third objective is to prepare a law that introduces a "Guarantee" system to the banks, because we do not understand why each bank cannot be posted on the website, what funding does and to whom, who distributes its advertising, who get preferential loans if they get more. The aim, of course, is to prevent problems such as those that have been experienced in the past and are still being investigated. The fourth objective is, of course, to strengthen the liquidity of the economy, which depends on the European Central Bank, but also on the banks themselves and the interest rate policy that other players will exercise. Fifth objective is to safeguard and exercise public rights, which requires institutional and organisational changes in the Ministry of Finance, so that there are structures such that today's public representatives in all banks can... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government is ringing.]] I will need your tolerance for a moment, Mr President, to finish. Of course, in 2016, it will become visible and operate the alternative financial system, which will address the needs that large systemic banks either cannot or do not want to face in the small business sector, innovative actions, local and regional development and so on. The participation of the Deposit and Loan Fund in the EIF's share capital has already been launched. Programmes are already being prepared for so-called'microcreditation', programmes for start-ups and so on. Mr President, I would like to conclude with some thoughts on the more general political issue which has been heard, but, on account of time, I will simply point out a contradiction. We hear from some anti-population forces an entirely aggressive attitude to the government, and at the same time we hear debates about universal governments. I would like to point out that historically the universal governments happen when there is a gap of power or when there is no pole legitimized by the people to function as the hub of our political life. Today, SYRIZA is such a pole, voted by the people for two consecutive times. SYRIZA is indeed a pole not only of stability but also of society's transformation. It is a party open to alliances, to the basis of programs and schedules. Therefore, the debate on global rather than other objectives is, possibly, aimed at covering up the problems that need to be tackled, possibly suspending or canceling, even temporarily, those breaches with those interests, but which must be done and done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr. Drasakis. The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Plackatotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u472	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by listening all these days to the Prime Minister and the Ministers responsible, I feel that either I live in another country or the Prime Minister and his government officials experience a virtual reality. I feel, like all the Greeks, that Mr. Tsipras rests upon his arrogant cloud and thinks he's a Prime Minister. He has the illusion that he rules and that his role is historic. He thinks fate chose him to carry out a national mission. Unfortunately, however, the reality is different for him. That's why I'm going to try to highlight it today, so that the Greek people can understand that the king is naked. I'm sorry, Prime Minister, that I'm going to wake you up and ruin your dream, but I'm gonna have to ask you to overthrow a year back. When you were a communist and we discussed the 2015 budget. It is worth remembering with us and the entire Greek people what the country's economic situation was at that time, which perspective was deleted, what you said, Mr Tsipras, you and your current ministers, what you promised, as a opposition, and what you finally did as a government. At the same time, it is worth seeing what the first left budget means to the place, what consequences it has for the national economy, what consequences it has for the citizens and social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, last year after many and painful sacrifices to public finances, important primary surpluses have been recorded for the second consecutive year. The country had taken the first steps to develop. It was expected to go even faster. The year ended with GDP growth of 0.7% and estimated that in 2015 we would have growth of 2.9% of GDP. Unemployment had already started to fall and it was certain that it would fall even further. These days last year the Prime Minister from the position of counterpopulation continued the political deception he had already set up. He confirmed that he would implement the so-called "Thessaloniki program", he was committed to tearing down the Memorandum and abolishing all applicable laws. Really, Mr. Tsipras, haven't you broken the memorandum yet? Why don't you bring an act of legislation to abolish the memorandum? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What keeps you and what binds you? Do you have to contact your friend Mrs. Angela? [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, last year Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA executives shared around 20 billion euros. They promised everything: Elimination of HISPI, granting the tenth pension, increasing the minimum wage, ending the painful measures, safeguarding red loans and no house in the hands of loan sharks. These days, on 7 December, in the budget debate, Mr. Tsipras pointed out in a veil: 'We are not going to put signatures on plans for impoverishment of our people!'. And immediately afterwards additional: "Whoever serves the Memorandum does not easily find the door of exit". A few days later, based on the help of the Golden Dawn and the ANELs, the current Prime Minister removed the consent required by the Constitution for the election of the President of the Republic, effectively trampled the Constitution and provoked early elections. He put above all his bolimia for authority. Nothing else! Until then, Mr Tsipras ignored the word 'consensual'. But now she's only learned it a week ago. Now that he's in front of the deadlocks of his irresponsible policy. Now that he's been confronted with the harsh reality of the third memorial he signed. The following things are known to everyone. He won the election with lies and promises, made the government with the ANELs, began irresponsible experiments without any plan. From the next day, each of the components of SYRIZA, fortified by a Ministry began to make its own plan: Eurodrachm plan, parallel coins, ribs in the Bank of Greece, plan b. For six months, Mr. Tsipras, SYRIZA, his components and Mr. Kammenos and ANEL played irresponsible and dangerous games against the country and the Greek people. They stopped paying, increasing the public's debt to private individuals, had internal forced lending, wiped out the available funds. They caused a new recession, a new explosion of unemployment and new deficits. They did - and a referendum to blackmail, he says - Europe. They have thus taken the country out of programme that they have committed themselves to respect. What did they do next? They closed the banks and imposed capital controls. They dragged the country to the edge of the cliff, to the edge of the disaster. In fact, Mr. Tsipras, I wonder, are you aware of the evil you've done in the country? Have you understood that you are driving the country to know? Unfortunately, Mr President of the Greek Government, seeing your kegs and listening to what you say right and left, I doubt you have a sense of reality. I am sorry and I am worried, Mr Tsipras, because at a time when tectonic changes are taking place there is insecurity and uncertainty. You prove yourself inferior to the circumstances and jeopardise the future of the place. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy as a serious and responsible political force has been historically justified for its choices. It is the party that has never proposed the party interest above the good of the place. It is the party that has always defied the political cost for the good of the country. The New Democracy has been justified by the choice of Constantine Karamanlis, who incorporated the country into the then united Europe. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It has been justified by the policy of Constantine Mitsotakis, which was so rabies-fighted by the then forces of populism. Of course, all these powers have moved by majority to you, Mr. Tsipras, to SYRIZA. It has also been justified by Kostas Karamanlis' policy, which managed to stimulate Greece's international prestige and to make our country an important player in south-eastern Europe. This policy was justified by the attitude of former Prime Minister Annan in Plan Cyprus and the veto in Bucharest, Russia's policy on the construction of gas pipelines, which would turn Greece into a European energy hub. Furthermore, the New Democracy has been justified by Antonis Samaras' policy, which at a difficult time took over the country and saved it from destruction. Finally, it has been justified by the responsible attitude of Vangelis Meimarakis, but also of all its MPs, when last summer they "done back" to keep the country in the Eurozone, not to go to uncontrolled bankruptcy, not to live uncontrolled social tragedy. We should remember what Mr Lafazanis, Mr Varoufakis, Mrs Constantopoulos and the other 'children' were talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u473	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet! Just a minute, Mr. Placiotakis. Thank you, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u474	Because with a lot of courage, Mr. Tsipras, you accused me in your statement after the Council of Political Heads of State of New Democracy, but also myself for irresponsibleness and populism, to remind you, because you probably have a weak memory, that in the summer, when you had lost the declared, the New Democracy in particular, but also the pro-European forces of the country gave you oxygen, to remain in your chair. That is why, when you talk about the New Democracy, you should measure your words and not forget that the New Democracy has proved its national and social sensitivity over time. With our attitude we prevented the national tragedy, which, with the irresponsible handling of your coup d'état, almost caused. Ladies and gentlemen, since last September, since their second government, SYRIZA and ANEL began to apply exactly what they accused and what they did not do. We have seen from that point on revealing and preparing painful measures, such as an increase in VAT rates in basic products and services, an increase in VAT rates in certain islands, which will be gradually extended to all, an increase in the solidarity levy, which has already begun to decrease, an increase in the income tax on rents, an increase in the advance payment of taxes on legal persons, free traders and farmers, an increase in excise duty on wine, an increase in the tickets to urban transport, an increase in traffic charges. In particular, for farmers, the left budget reserves one-off hits, such as an increase in contributions to the OGA, an increase in the advance payment of income tax, an increase in the income tax rate, a reduction in the reimbursement of excise duties on diesel. The policy announced by the budget is based on increased taxes and not on containment of expenditure. But when you kill with taxes and contributors to the economy, you cannot be surprised or ask why they do not render the measures you have taken or come and put your hand back in the pocket of the one who was consistent. Conclusion? Conflict undermines local production, strangles the real economy, shrinks employment, puts tombstones in the hopes of our young people to find a job. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget brought about by the Tsipras - Kammenos government highlights their inconsistency and irresponsibility. The budget, which we are discussing, the first left budget includes new taxes of EUR 3.2 billion. And all this is beyond the EUR 500 million package, which was just passed in November. The budget is undevelopmental, but also socially unfair. It reveals the political fraud that SYRIZA set up. It highlights their inconsistency and unreliability. It dissolves the myth of supposed social sensitivity. It proves that the promises were both false and canopies, and that applies above all to pensions. Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA promised in advance the granting of the 15th pension. Now, after abolishing the twelfth pension by increasing insurance contributions, they are preparing new dramatic cuts. Since the summer, the main pensions and 6% of supplementary pensions have been cut. They have already removed EUR 422 million from pensioners. But they don't stop here. With the first budget, as they themselves admit in the report, they are about to take from the pensioners in the new year over EUR 1.7 billion. Cumulatives for 2015 and 2016 cut off pensions over EUR 2,160 billion. They are preparing to draw up a tip, and this is the most clear example of their anti-social policy. It's the most tranquil proof of their inconsistency and analgesia. It is the fraud that workers and pensioners will not let go unnoticed. But that's not all. Their inconsistency has neither a start nor an end. They promised that they would protect the first home from auctions in any case. They deceived the world - everyone remembers it - saying 'no house in the hands of a banker'. They have just passed a law that opened for the first time the ferry for the auctions. There's been a nightmare for every borrower who's in trouble. They promised to maintain the CSCE in an election campaign. Now what are they doing? They are cutting 223 million euros from the CSCE, i.e. cutting one of the four beneficiaries. They also promised by election to reduce excise duty on heating oil again. Now, instead of lowering the excise duty, they're reducing, they're cutting the oil premium half. They take from our fellow citizens who need 105 million euros. Again in the election, they promised to abolish HISPIA. Now, not only do they keep him and receive him in fewer instalments, but they also cut 20 million euros from the cancellations they cancel. They also promised a fairer burden-sharing. Now what are they doing? They add even more taxes, EUR 3.2 billion new taxes. They all kneel down: farmers, producers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, pensioners, households. Ladies and gentlemen, the first SYRIZA budget shows that what they said about supposedly social sensitivity was just a myth. The new taxes are not only unbearable, they are not only undermining any attempt to relaunch the economy, they are also socially unfair. And this is clear from the fact that indirect taxes, i.e. taxes disproportionately burdening the weakest social strata, are being increased. Proof? Taxes affect our poorest fellow citizens more than the rich. Such is the message from the implementation of the multi-faceted law on the humanitarian crisis. When, at the beginning of the year, they brought this law to a vote, they committed themselves to making available 200 million euros. Now, of course, the Minister responsible admits that only EUR 108 million will be made available and even less per year. Such is the message for all social costs. They cut off the ESS, cut social benefits, cut pensions, and at the same time increase the burdens on people's incomes, increase taxes, increase charges, even increase prices in urban transport tickets. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very well aware of the government's agonizing effort to overthrow, deceive and take away its responsibilities elsewhere. It is clear that her attempt to fineen the budget figures. It's a spectacular attempt to build fake images. But the figures it presents do not come out, they have no internal cohesion, they are not reliable. The left budget reveals much, however, even more. Improves, above all, the dramatic effects on the financial system. It prevents the catastrophe which occurred at the expense of the shareholders of the banks, but also the public and the taxpayers. He's avoiding the truth and celebrating the crime he committed. Now Mr Tsipras celebrates that it will not be necessary for the banks to recapitalise the EUR 25 billion originally calculated, but only EUR 5.7 billion. But what Mr Tsipras does not say is that the total value of the shares of the four systemic banks in the summer of 2014 was EUR 37.8 billion, and now he sold them for just EUR 800 million. What he does not say is that, in the process chosen by the values of bank shares, they have been depleted. I want to present in the minutes the latest monetary policy report, a mid-term report of 2015, which says attributes: "The deterioration of the conditions at the beginning of 2015 has implications for the short-term prospects of the economy, which made it necessary to strengthen the capital base of the banks". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Plakiotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Nearly EUR 20 billion was lost from the Financial Stability Fund, i.e. from the public sector, and another EUR 17 billion from Greek small shareholders. With its methods, the Left Government is causing huge economic damage to the public and small shareholders. It leads, at the same time, the banking system in the globe. And that, Mr. Tsipras, is not just a mistake. It's a crime. That is why we say it once again: let the government stop celebrating and prepare its apology. Her responsibilities are enormous. In fact, I wonder, Mr Tsipras: Are you satisfied with the results of your policy? Are you satisfied with the calamity and drama you have brought to the Greek people with your policy? Are you satisfied with the categorisation of the country? You sleep quiet at night, Mr. Tsipras? What do you have to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u475	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u476	Please don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u477	What do you have to say to the people you fooled and betrayed their expectations? Ladies and gentlemen, it is finally necessary for the government to realise that the country cannot continue to walk without compass. It cannot continue to progress without any design at all. We cannot change the world around us and in our neighborhood to change the world map and we can remain spectators. Finally, we need to put an end to the inertia, to make use of the EUR 35 billion Juncker package, which we - the Samara Government - brought in our country, to start the development machinery, to give practical support to small and medium-sized enterprises, to complete all the major works that are being mobilised. It is necessary to continue reforms in the public sector, for a fertile investment environment and, of course, to move on with the development of our mineral wealth, to place emphasis on the steam engines, our industry, tourism, our shipping, and not to undermine them from bankrupt ideas, to bring about new investments, new businesses and new jobs. It is necessary for reforms to go ahead in the state, for a state ally of citizens, a sick and not a manipulation of entrepreneurship, with e-government everywhere, continuously limiting bureaucracy, with transparency and merit. At the same time, it is imperative to move forward with the necessary arrangements to substantially speed up the process of justice. So is society and the economy. It is imperative that the government stop experimentation and improvisations in education, pursue its substantial and qualitative upgrading, as well as linking the educational system to the labour market. Not in ideologies, not in obsessive perceptions that look like a retardation of excellence. At the same time, it is necessary for the state to stand arrogant to the executives of the Armed Forces, the Security Bodies, the Police, the Firefighting, the Port Authority, the women and men who are at risk of our security. I would like, at this point, to express our deep concern at the great international refugee and immigration problem, for which your Government has enormous responsibilities. We call on the government, even at the last minute, even at the last hour, not to let things take dramatic proportions. One more thing. In hours crucial to our national issues, the government decides to cut down on the foreign ministry's credit and weaken our country's diplomatic presence abroad. It's a mistake that shouldn't happen. And don't forget, in our national issues, there are no concessions or concessions. From our standing national positions, there can be no step back. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are discussing reveals the SYRIZA fraud and tears down the myths of the Left. This budget is not realistic, it does not come out, it does not inspire trust. It's impossible to catch the budget targets. He's unreal. He's socially unfair. He's doomed to fail. It strangles with taxes for anyone producing in this country. It reduces people's incomes, reduces pensions and social benefits, also reduces GDP, prosecutes investment, brings unemployment, increases public debt. The Left budget shows that 2016 will be much worse than 2015 and that with the Left government we will say, "Every year and better." Unfortunately, this draft budget was not drafted by the government, but by the executives of the lenders. This budget was not drawn up in the Greek Ministry of Finance, but in the Hilton suites.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u478	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u479	I understand your anxiety, colleagues of SYRIZA. You are in front of the reality of the third memorandum, which you yourself signed. I understand your turmoil, but I recommend cooling, calm! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Tsipras, you started as a revolutionary to change Europe and return home as a slave to Europe. You started as a missionary to an idea and turned yourself into a middleman between Ms. Merkel and Mr. Shoeble. You lifted the flag of the revolution to the loan sharks and ended up a radar of international capital! You started to restore the honor, the reputation, the dignity of the Greeks and the shame of the Greeks! Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, the fact that I have the honour of representing all my fellow Members, clearly state our position: we shall vote against this budget, and I call on my fellow Members to do the same, from all the wings of this House, because we will depend on the final result, from us, on heaven or hell that we will build. Our fate lies in our hands. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u480	Please, ladies and gentlemen, there are no arguments. The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u481	Mr President of the New Democracy, I have a question after your speech. I've heard all the things we're going to raise. You said ten, twelve things. You should know that this was all in Juncker's proposal that we went to the referendum. I have one question: did you say 'yes' to the referendum or 'no'? What did you vote for? 'Yes'? You didn't want to? So, did you vote 'yes' to increase wages?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u482	What did you vote for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u483	Be quiet. Please don't react like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u484	Did you vote 'yes' to increase pensions? Is that what you're telling us? And not just...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u485	Gentlemen, please. Just a minute, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u486	What did you vote for, 'yes' or 'no'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u487	Because we are at the beginning of the speech and this scene has been repeated, do not react like that. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u488	It's causing us, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u489	He's looking for it, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u490	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u491	Everything was in the Juncker plan. Everything he said was in the Juncker Plan. You said to vote 'yes'. Yes or no? Did I make a mistake and you said "no"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u492	And you who voted 'no', what are you doing now? Aren't you ashamed to vote now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u493	The 'no' yours did it 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u494	Mrs. Vulge, please. It's all been heard so far, whether or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u495	To go to Peru...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u496	Mrs. Vulture, please! Did you hear what was said before? Have there been such reactions? Please. We now say who did 'no', 'yes' and 'yes', 'no' at 12 o'clock at night! Please! Calm down! Mr. Chakaloto, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u497	So I continue after this straightforward and sincere exchange of views. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we have a difficult budget. No one's celebrating. It is not difficult for PASOK and New Democracy colleagues have said that we have the worst memorial of all - which is why I will say something later - nor because it is worse than the Juncker project, as I just said. It is a difficult budget for the reason Mr Karathanasopoulos said from the JRC. He's hard because he comes and accumulates on what he was before. That's what Mr. Karathanasopoulos said, and he's right. What, though, is what accumulates on it? Where were we in 2012 or January 2014? Because I have heard too many arguments and because all my colleagues and colleagues from the House have said so, I have to help you. SYRIZA's comrades and comrades, you're tired, as you've said these arguments so many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u498	Here are no comrades. There are MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u499	As we used to call the anecdotes numbers, I'll tell you, so you don't get tired, four numbers and you'll only say these four numbers. It's three numbers and a jocker. It's 25, 28, 33 and 50. You'll say those numbers from now on. 25 is the rate at which national income fell in five years of the PASOK and New Democracy governments. 28 is unemployment. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] 33 is the percentage of the population that is either poverty or is in danger of being in poverty. That's why, when you tell us, Mrs. Gennamas, that we're abducted, I think we should spend too many years to give us that designation with those numbers. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's why we come to the jocker. Joker's 50, because these are the percentage units you've lost since bipartement got over 80%. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] As the great sports commentator Antonis Panoutsos says, the Italians say about football and football results that the serious result is 1-0. Two-to-one is a little exaggeration to get tired. Three-and-a-half is "alange", i.e., as the English do. You're Italian, you could say one or two numbers. You will allow me to be English school, to say all four numbers, i.e. 25, 28, 33 and 50.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u500	You're not here for numbers. You're running the country. Show some seriousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u501	And I will tell them not only about what has happened in the crisis, but about how we have come to this crisis, about the thirty-five years that we have built the client state, for the thirty-five years that have become social injustices, for the thirty-five years that there has been no development sustainable model and, of course, for the twenty years that you have built this European Union, the central-left and the right to be so restrictive in politics. And because these arguments have been made many times and I don't want to say them again, I just want to say a new argument, because in the last eight years before the crisis an agreement was made with the devil. Where we had the structural policies that through planning, through policies, could bring growth across southern Europe, you said all the central left-wings and all the right-wings in Europe, "Let us not have these structural policies, reduce them and come private capital and banks, because we believe in the liberalisation of banks". That's how the crisis came when that money came. And when the crisis came, they took off that money. I am now returning to taxation, because we have heard too much, such as taxes, taxes, taxes everywhere, 'never before'. What does it do, as we can see on page 24, the budget? It increases taxes a little over 2 billion, to EUR 2.67 billion. How does it compare to what happened before? I am going to the first memorandum, in the 2011 budget, where we had to deal with an increase in tax revenue of EUR 4 billion. Then, in the second memorandum, the truth is that taxes have increased very little. The truth is not always on one side and I accept it. However, we had a cut in wages of 1 billion 700 million and a reduction in pensions of 3 billion, that is, in the total of 4 billion 700 million, when in the budget - on page 77- of 2016, the equivalent of 357 million, a tenth of what he said about 2013. The worst memorial, you don't say it! But where are we on what is in Europe? Well, let's see it comparatively. The budgetary figures say that in the total direct and indirect taxes we have reached 25.7% of GDP. What happens in Europe? I imagine, ladies and gentlemen, with what you have heard of our tax policy, will you think that the European Union will have 5% less, 10%, 15%? 15% may be an exaggeration. However, it will be much less if this tax raid has been made, these 'taxes', the 'taxes', the 'taxes'. So what do the evidence say? The average of the European Union, according to the latest figures I have, is: Direct taxes of 13.2%. Indirect taxes 13.5%. The overall average in Europe is 26.7%. How much higher are we on average? We're minus 1%. We have a lesser average tax than there is in the European Union. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u502	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u503	What you're saying is a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u504	Don't react, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u505	And what does that mean? Does that mean there's no problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u506	Put more taxes on it! The Greek people can stand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u507	Please. Mr. Chakalato, wait a minute, excuse me. Please. For four days all the views have been heard, and the extremely opposite of what the Minister for Finance is now saying, which closes the debate. Please listen with respect. Please. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u508	Mr President, we applaud the Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u509	We're not bothering you, Mr. President. We're applauded. And we said we have a few taxes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u510	So, as the average, I repeat...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u511	Say, put taxes on it! That's what we're talking
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u512	Mr. Brutsi!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u513	If you said before that we're minus 1%, put taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u514	Mr. President, please. What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u515	Don't exterminate yourself. Businesses and numbers are filed. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u516	What I said is that we don't have a problem, that there's no problem with taxation, that the populace and the middle layers don't suffer? Of course that doesn't mean. That is why this government must deal primarily with the restructuring of the tax system and the expansion of the tax base. And that's why you heard all the numbers from the Trophin Alexiadis, because it's how deep it is, and how much it is. To give just one example: in the islands this year we took more than VAT from the previous year and the previous year. And collectivity has increased. That is why we are taking measures that have a good redistribution of income. And we chose the solidarity tax for those who take less than 30,000 to pay less and those who take 30,000 and over to pay more. I think we can have a debate on taxation. It is not a priority to reduce taxation, because in the crisis and at the bottom of the crisis, almost all economists say that if you have a euro, it is better to go to investment than to reduce taxes. What we need to do is what I told you, the restructuring of taxes and the broadening of the tax base. I can also speak on the expenditure side, on what we are trying to do to improve the reallocation of income, on increasing the social budget by 823 million, on restoring the funding of the state's overdue obligations on health, welfare, social security, on increasing the grant of hospitals by 300 million and the Procurement Committee by 36 million. It has been heard that 2% and 6% increase in insurance contributions do not go to health. Wrong! From this increase of 320 million went to health in 2015 and for 2016 the measure is estimated to yield 700 million. Of these 57%, or 300 million, go to the EEA and 100 million go to IKA. These are the efforts within these difficult constraints we have. Let me turn to the road map we have to escape the crisis, such as the recapitalisation of banks - which I have spoken about many times - the closure of the first assessment, the debt. To recapitalise the banks, Vice-President Yiannis Drasakis spoke very much. So I will not go back to the big arguments about who is to blame, who is to blame for the bank run. All this has been discussed. I think the arguments have been heard. I have to tell you an argument that has not been heard, about what you are saying, namely how much the price of shares has been reduced. One of the problems we had was the 25 billion left by the ESM to recapitalise the banks. It is a great success that we will only need 5 billion and something. But when they said that it would take 25 billion, when the IMF and other institutions said that it is a large number, when the internal aid said that the problem of banks is a great deal and that it will take a lot of money to recapitalise, do you not understand how big a problem this has been for banks and that is why in the last few days and last month stock prices fell? Why did the stock prices fall? Because when you say that it may take 25 billion and the bank's share capital is 27 billion, then it's next for investors to think that the banks are worthless. We are now going to the other question concerning preference shares and the question I raised to Mr Theocharis. The time for the quiz is over. We didn't have the right answer! The question was what we should do with the privileged shares when we made the banks' recapitalisation. I told Mr. Theochari that if we said that it would be the price he would have come out of - what he came out of the tender book, there would be no investors coming in. If we went with what the law said -- and the law says that if you turn the shares, you have to do them at the price, on the average of twelve months -- we would lose too much money. And that's why we decided not to turn them into the bail in. Thus, we have the great blessing of not needing bail in Eurobank and only need at the National Bank. Do you know how much we won, Mr. Theocharis - the final number - that we didn't do what you said? We won 1.3 billion! We won 1.3 billion because we didn't do what you suggested! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I now come to the denial of the Greek banks, for which Mr Yiannis Drasakis replied. However, since the President of the New Democracy once again mentioned it again, I should like to tell you that again, so that there can be a dialogue. Let's get a bank. Let us see, for example, the shareholder composition of Piraeus Bank after the recapitalisation: Greek shareholders 39.7%, EBRD and IFC 3.4%, foreign institutions 30.4%, CF 26.4%. Say it now in patriots? Greek participation 66.4%. Foreign participation 33.5%. 33.5% is in the EBRD and IFC, which I imagine you want, because they are long-term investors who want to support the economy in the long term. So this argument is not going. And, finally, the argument that no matter what the shares of the CFS is, we also retain the right to veto. What's that veto's right, that you can have on one stock and we have it on all fours? It is that the representative of the CFSF on the Governing Council has the right to veto decisions relating to the increase or reduction of equity, decisions on merger or for the sale of its subsidiaries. It may veto any decision taken by the Governing Council if it considers that the interests of depositors may be jeopardised or liquidity, bank solvency and, in general, its prudent and orderly functioning. And a lot more can do with that veto. So the idea that we don't have any control over the banks is being shot down too. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the road map. We have said from the outset about this agreement that we will divide the policy of the ANE - SYRIZA into three parts: the agreed ones, the ones that have been parked since the summer and are for negotiation and the parallel programme. Let me have a few words about each piece. For the agreed, although we have agreed, we have negotiated almost all better. For the drugs, as many speakers have told you, there will be pharmacists. There wasn't that. The fall in generic prices will gradually occur. There wasn't that. What you said, Mr President, about oil, will gradually be done. There was no one in the Junker package, just as there was no gradual reduction in the CSCE. It had to be reduced immediately. That's what we did to the agreeds. Now, we get to what we parked. In the previous debate, the law of Katseli came. We have said that there will be protection for those who have 35,000 or less income and for those who have 230,000 euros homes. And you say the smart line, that we from "no house in the banker's hands", went to "no house in the owner's hands".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u517	It's yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u518	Aren't you telling me, the only owners you're interested in are those who have over 35,000 and houses over 300,000 euros? Are these the owners? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And let me ask you another question Mr. Panos Skourletis asked you yesterday. Next week we will negotiate on IPTO, which, as you remember from the agreement, we have two options: either accept privatisation or bring in a plan for IPTO that keeps it in public space, but increases competition. Will you insist on "little" PPC, or will you support us in this negotiation? Should we negotiate on the public character of IPTO? Why did Mr. Skourletis ask you and you didn't answer. And I still don't hear anything. Should we privatize him? "Small" PPC? Just so we know what we're talking about. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And I could say about a lot of other things we're negotiating. Now let's go to the parallel program. I will now tell you a few things that are in the parallel programme and then I will propose to the Prime Minister. In the parallel health programme we have reformed primary health care based on the principles of universality, parity and efficiency. We have reforming the administration of the system with transparent governance and upgrading the computer systems, reforming the procurement system and much more. In education we have committed ourselves to all those measures that will minimise the problems of the start-up of the new school year and which will address existing malfunctions in HEIs and research centres, to completing the national and social dialogue on education, seeking to create a framework for proposals that have the broadest possible consensus of the parties and stakeholders, to radically reordering the processes of introduction to the Greek Open University with the aim of providing access to education for many more citizens and at the same time creating many new teaching places for young scientists. I do not have time to say about the alternative programme that we have for the public sector, for corruption, for the extension of the tax base. My proposal, Mr President-in-Office, Alexis, is this: As we have prerequisites for the agreement, we should put our own programme of prerequisites to all the ministers. So Blonde should know when he'll bring a health bill, friend when he'll bring a law on education. That'll be our schedule, which when we leave, we'll all be proud of because we're done. [[Applause]] I would now like to refer to the debt. I have spoken too many times about debt. I have to say one thing, and I won't get into the confrontation with PASOK again, even though...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u519	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u520	...good or not. We need one. We need an agreement in which investors and those who want to consume, save, invest in Greece will know that there is a solution for five to ten years. Because if a solution is given that is only for two years, there will only be investments for two years and we will return to the old vicious circle, which will not be so great a growth, and if there is no growth so great, we will not be close to the targets and will be the same vicious circle from the start. But you need to know, not only that we will negotiate this debt, but we are negotiating and discussing with Europeans about a different European architecture, because many in Europe have realised that when the Nordic countries have low interest rates and have no budgetary problems, it is madness not to invest and not to raise wages to help the countries of the south. It's crazy not to have a big budget, like all the other monetary unions. Why are we optimistic that this change can be made? Because we see how many and how many change. We see what is happening in Portugal and we see outside Greece what changes are taking place in social democracy. And we see that in the great debate on refugees this solidarity we have shown how important it is, because solidarity is a product, a good that you are using it the more useful it is. We have great hopes that we who have shown solidarity here will also go to economic issues. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I concluded my speech with solidarity, precisely because it is at the centre of the left values, along with collectiveness, co-operation and democracy, because we had twenty - thirty years during which self-interest, competition and technocracy ruled. We knew it wasn't gonna work and it didn't work. We believe that we can draw up a new path in which these values are at the heart of politics. We know that these ideas must not be, Mr Cremastine, just for universities. If our ideas or the old social democracy or the left are just for the amphitheaters, why should you and I be in politics and not let them rule with their own values? It is time for those who believe in the social state to stand up. Those who believe in a different policy are time to stand up and count in Greece and Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u521	Thank you very much to the Minister of Finance. Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor. Wait, Prime Minister, cut off the applause.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u522	Mr President, that is not possible! I'm asking for the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u523	You're welcome. You're very welcome. Wait, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u524	He referred to me! This is not the way to disguise dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u525	Please, be quiet, everyone. There's a fatigue. The meeting is closed with the Prime Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u526	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech on the budget with a reference to the latest developments that have to do with the refugee issue, an extremely important issue, nationally important, because I have sadness and indignation in the last few days, once again following the effort to undermine the country. This time our sure 'discharge' was discovered - so they wrote to all tons of specific media - not by the Eurozone, but by the Schengen Treaty. We have seen headlines that Grexit has been reintroduced, that we are being driven from Europe, that Greece does not fulfil its obligations for the first reception areas of refugees. Of course, some people moved all this, some centers abroad, from countries that build walls and fences. But some also reproduced them here, unfortunately, first in this Chamber, before they even realise what is happening, I imagine before they even contacted the Commissioner responsible, the Greek Commissioner, with whom the government is in daily contact, not in order to serve, some small party interest is served, but the national interest. Unfortunately, the New Democracy Members first reproduced in this Chamber, accepting the most extreme scenarios, that the country is rightly abducted and that the country is coming out of Schengen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u527	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u528	Who said that? We never said that! Are you distorting the truth?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u529	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u530	And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, because at last week's meeting of the political leaders, the representative of the New Democracy there, Mr Plakkatakis, expressed the view that the New Democracy does not agree with the creation of reception centres on our islands. And of course, yesterday Friday, the European Union's Internal Affairs Council and all these scenarios were disastrous. And, of course, he has corrupted all the words 'pads'. The interior ministers of the European Union, those who, according to the dangerists, would show us the door out of Schengen, not only did they not do that, but they congratulated Greece on managing the refugee flows. They did, in fact, self-criticism, that if some do not apply the agreeds, there are some countries building walls and fences because this is their perception of Europe and they do not implement, they do not promote the relocation plan for refugees to these countries. Indeed, some countries, including Germany, have understood, even with delay, and have supported Greece's proposal for direct relocation - reception of refugees from Turkey to the European countries, while the statement by the responsible Minister of Presidency of the European Union, Mr Ashelbourne, that Greece assumes the responsibility of protecting the European borders, I hope, definitively, in these incomprehensible scenarios, which, together with the most reactionary circles of some Member States, have unfortunately also been promoted in our country. And here I would like to ask myself, because I am very surprised to see that, well in all other respects, we will be talking about them later, but also on this matter, the Qualified Opposition, an institutional pillar of the political system, was not able - a single party from those who took part in the meeting of the political leaders - to find a point of identification and a national line on a critical national issue? Yet, even in this matter, you were differentiated. All right, well, those who aim, they have reason to put Greece at the forefront. All right, and all kinds of complexes of interlocutory, now dying and caught by everything, show with vulgar titles that they don't care about the national interest and care about others. They even show that Greece - a model of solidarity at these moments the Greek people, our islands - is saying "African country". All right, all right, all right, but you too? I would say that such matters of national responsibility require more responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u531	Prime Minister, ten months have not happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u532	I didn't interrupt you. We have heard the speech of your Minister of Finance with great care and I see that you are also intervening in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u533	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u534	I understand, then, that you are in a process of endlessness - unfortunately, not for you - internal party. But there are certain limits. Where there is room for the country, we should disagree. However, where there is a supreme issue of national responsibility, the dispute is a luxury. And tell us at last where and exactly what you disagree. Do you or do you not want the country to fulfil its international obligations in respect of the first-host centres? Do you welcome or do you not welcome the attitude of solidarity in Europe? Or do you join with some extremist voices in Europe, who are insulting us, why do we not go back to the Aegean Sea, in other words why do we not drown people in the Aegean? The Greek people all this time, ladies and gentlemen, strongly demonstrates their solidarity when others build walls and tear down the European vision. European solidarity in practice is being implemented on our islands, where there is a superhuman effort by our people, residents and local authorities, the men and women of the Port House who are saving hundreds of human lives every day, the men and women of the Police and Army, and I call on you all, if you want, to visit and see for yourself. I would like to repeat that in this direction we will move intensified our work by correcting errors and omissions, speeding up our work. And of course I hope in this attempt to find a company from all the wings of the Greek Parliament. I now come to the budget issues. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last six years a policy of extreme and hard, classic, fiscal adjustment and internal devaluation has been implemented in our country. The aim of this policy was to clear workers' rights, create a new capital accumulation scheme at the expense of work. The collective bargaining has been abolished, wages and minimum wages have been reduced several times in the private sector, flexible employment relationships have been widened and a climate of employment immunity prevailed. At the same time, in the name of fiscal consolidation and the service of public debt, crimes have been committed against the social state, hospitals, who are now actually hanging on a thread, the universities, the insurance funds and the people, the civil servants and the pensioners. There is no doubt that it was this reality that we inherited on 25 January of this year. This policy, of course, is clearly intended and, by reducing active demand, it was assumed that it would lead to a high recession and a fall in unemployment. But we didn't have to do here with an accident or a mistake. We were dealing with a plan well executed, a plan of neoliberal inspiration. It was precisely this plan that our government questioned during the negotiation and continues today to question. Our aim was and is a deep and radical transformation of the country's economic, productive and social model, support for labour rights, employment, enlargement of the social state, protection of public property, fair taxation, protection of the environment. We all know, however, that these objectives require a radical overthrow of the correlations, social and political, not only in one country, so much in our homeland, but in the whole of the European Union, and these connections do not change from one day to the next. We need constant efforts, commitment, mobilization, political will for deep areas. This government has shown in fact that it has the courage - and indeed the will - too. With today's budget we prove that we also have the capacity to lead this great and difficult social effort in extremely unfavourable conditions, because this budget is a difficult exercise for us, an exercise for a government that wants to capture a signal of social justice and redistribution of resources in conditions of budgetary tightness and difficulty. Behind the budget figures one can see a struggle to support labour forces, the most vulnerable social strata, but also the prospect of the gradual transformation necessary for the well-being of the many. We have been struggling from the outset in a context that was previously sedated by a peculiar partnership of interests, both within and outside the country, which were working on the parentheses scenario. In the democratic limits of the mandate entrusted to us by the Greek citizens, we have examined every alternative and every instrument, in conditions of financial suffocation and political blackmail, and at the end we have reached an agreement that is without doubt a compromise with our lenders. This agreement is clearly difficult, but it does not just include neoliberal fanaticism of creditors' overconservative circles. It also contains a different, radical concept of the economy and society. It is, like all things in life, a condensation of power. Those who may have imagined an easy, spectacular victory, paralyzing the compact negative forces toward us, came out of the dance early, and from the safe they suggested irresponsible, heroic self-sacrificing and romantic tactism solutions. In this dramatic course, however, there were many and those who detested our efforts and deserved for themselves the damn talent of Cassandra. They prophesied the collapse and destruction by undermining the negotiation struggle. But they proved themselves to many false prophets and even repeatedly as they followed a series of overwhelming disquietes. Disclosure first: The 'no' of the referendum did not lead the country outside the euro, but strengthened our negotiating position for a more flexible agreement than the one they proposed to us, with better conditions than the one they proposed to us. The targets for primary surpluses have been lowered. In August, an indirect debt restructuring took place, after covering all of our financial needs by 2019, while at the same time European funds for investment were increased. For the first time, the Greek government's agreement and objectives were included, progressive and radical objectives to combat black labour, to combat tax evasion and corruption, to restore collective bargaining. Advertising second: Outside banking restrictions did not result either in the collapse of our banking system or in the haircut of deposits, as many have anticipated. Today the Greek banks are at the top of Europe in terms of capital adequacy, as defined by the Basel III Treaty. Of the EUR 25 billion originally planned for the recapitalisation of the banks, 5.7 billion was only needed. This means that we saved EUR 19 billion in extra debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u535	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u536	If a few months ago in this Chamber thought there would be such a high participation of investors in the Greek banks, surely most of them here would pass him for superstition. And yet this has happened and this proves the rapid return to stability, but also the rapid restoration of confidence in the Greek economy. Furthermore, we have ensured, as far as possible, the public interest. Contrary to the previous recapitalisation procedures, the HFSF receives normal shares and convertible bonds, i.e. enjoys a preferential repayment of capital or exercises a voting rightful control, while in the previous procedures the shares it received did not have a voting right, but no interest, of course. Advertising third: September's second elections did not consecrate the economy and the citizens reaffirmed their formality - even with the same numerical results - their choice for a change of page at the place. With the immediate establishment of a stable government, confidence and economic climate indicators have quickly recovered. Disclosure fourth: The recent regulation on the protection of first home, not only does not release auctions, but on the contrary fully protects the consistent borrowers and establishes a strict management framework. With the amendment of the Katseli Act, we have now guaranteed the protection of the first residence for more than 60% of the mortgage debtors. Especially the weaker 25% enjoys absolute protection, while for the remaining 35%, not only the protection against auctions, but for the first time the possibility of haircuts is also provided. The instalments will now be adjusted to the current low commercial value of the property and not to the high objective value with which the loans had been concluded before the crisis. And let us not forget that we have all achieved this by overcoming the previous government's commitments to complete liberalisation of auctions, but also the original position of lenders, who were required to negotiate protection status only for 16% of debtors. Nurse Thursday: Remission for 2015 not only didn't touch two-digit percentages that were told by some in the days closed by the banks, but instead remained zero. At the same time, consumption, employment and exports increased slightly. Thus, we expect positive growth rates to reappear in the second half of 2016. Despite the tax fatigue of the six-year recession, tax costs increased as a percentage of GDP last year at 25% of 21%. By comparison with tax revenues for months, as in October 2015 to October 2014, we see an increase in tax revenues by 714 million. In addition, tax revenues received in November 2015 are 523 million more than in November 2014. This has contributed to the reorientation and intensification of the work of tax and tax systems. For the first time, the increase in VAT on the islands has increased, of course, following an increased flow of tourism. The main point, however, is that something is changing is the outstanding finding from the Treasury's statistics in the ten-day examination by Faltsini prosecutors abroad for the famous Lagard list, voluntary tax collections from this list reached within a few days EUR 80 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u537	These are classified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u538	It seems, therefore, that the fight against tax evasion is primarily a matter of political will. And you know, this government has shown that it has that will. Control mechanisms have now changed orientation and are focused on cases of economic crime and corruption. Tens of cases are brought to the D.A. Journalists are on the way out of the public domain, and at last we claim to return the stolen people to the public funds. All the lists are checked, old and new, and some of the lists that come lately and go with the normal procedure directly where it should be and not in drawers. It is soon completed and a modern net property crossing system is piloted with the declared incomes at the expense of fifteen years. A specific operational plan for the control of offshore is also introduced. Of the ten thousand offshore operating in Greece, about six thousand are controllable. Of these six thousand offshore have already been checked by the three hundred eighty-four and taxes of EUR 130 million have been paid. In contrast, only three hundred offshore were checked in one year in 2014-2015 and taxes of only EUR 94 million were paid. It also promotes a bill on voluntary disclosure of funds inside and abroad so that they finally pay those who have concealed money and those who have exploited the immunity regime over the past twenty years. Finally, an announcement that has been repeated since the Kapodistrias era is finally being carried out. The plan for the Capacity Reserve is being put in a phase of implementation, with the aim of directly legislating it and starting it from September 2016. Not to seize valuables or paintings, as irresponsibly wrote some instruments, but to enable the tax authorities finally to monitor over time how changes in the assets situation are evolving and to check targeted targeting those who have unjustified changes. Ladies and gentlemen, even within this narrow financial framework laid down in the difficult agreement that we reached last July, we achieve the first objective, the redistribution of burdens, to pursue the second objective which is the great fight for redistribution. In a close budgetary environment, this budget gives priority to social justice and the foundations for returning to development are laid. This is possible, mainly thanks to the lowest targets for primary surpluses, but also to increasing public and European funds for investment. More specifically: 2015 recession is reviewed by -4% in zero. Thus the annual return on the measures is falling to 5.7 billion in the final draft budget and the burden of budgetary intervention is falling. Similarly, they are revised downwards and negative forecasts for recession in 2016. From -1.3% in the preliminary draft, the forecast now is for -7%. However, this is a conservative forecast - let me take the view - which is still overestimated of the impact of controls and I think it will be disproved. And above all, it will be disproved when the summer is due to have an excellent year of tourism. The stabilisation of the banking system will further encourage positive psychology among citizens, especially investors, more consumption and investment and job creation. After all, the linear shape of the economic analysis that the imposition of capital controls would automatically lead to a recession and an increase in unemployment has been denied. Already many analysts, both inside and outside Greece, are now awaiting the deportation of the compressed dynamic that has our economic system since the second half of 1916. And it is precisely that development that can speed up the process of recovering our economic sovereignty, the long-standing exit from the lenders' board and the total overrun, exit from the crisis. Comparing both medium-term, the budget area created, from the lowest targets to 2018, is equal to EUR 20 billion. That's not a little bit. It's almost an extra ESDP. This financial area will be used to correct social injustices and to mitigate the consequences of the recession. For the first time, the social budget is supported by 823 million years. An uninsured card is provided and free access to hospitals, coverage of uninsured overtime, free movement of unemployed people in public transport and extension of minimum guaranteed income. In the first quarter of '16 the institution of school meals is introduced in the primary school, based on the map of poverty. For the first time after five years, there will finally be recruitment in the health sector in order to cover the major shortages of nursing establishments. Immediately we'll have nine hundred eighty-five, and two thousand more four hundred forty. At the same time, we are increasing the grant to hospitals by EUR 300 million as a minimum measure to reverse the impoverishment course of the National Health System. We save from the cartels of medicines and supplies that have been fed over the days of the previous governments, in order to support the universal and high-level care of all Greeks who are able to provide our doctors, our nurses in hospitals today, overcoming this. As an active employment policy, 450 to 500 million euros will be used forward in 2016 from 1.4 billion to 2020. Thus, we are launching direct twelve employment programmes for a hundred and four thousand unemployed, while our goal is to create another hundred thousand new jobs in specialized public works in all the municipalities in the country, that is, a total of about two hundred thousand new jobs. With data from "ERGANI", we have a hundred thousand new positions in the private sector and according to ELSTAT, unemployment has fallen by 1.4% in the last eight months, but, of course, we will not celebrate that, as you would probably do in our place, as you have done in the past, presenting a success story. And we will not celebrate this when unemployment in our country remains in unacceptable proportions to the country of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, all previous governments have introduced a plan for neoliberal transformation of the economy and society by system and diligence. Our plan is on the other side. It includes redistribution of income, support for labour, protection of a social state. However, it is necessary to speed up the redistribution and create sustainable jobs that is the prerequisite for this appalling disinvestment that has occurred at the site. In this direction for the first time since 2008, we have been increasing the Public Investment Programme to 6.75 billion, while more than EUR 300 million has been channelled from the NSRF last year. The absorption procedures of the NRP shall also be accelerated. We have resurrected projects that did not qualify and have betrayed customer logic and carried others to the next ESDP so that money is not repaid. We have also obtained a double-payment from Community funding, 14% instead of 7%. The government's dues towards citizens are finally drastically reduced. In August 500 million was given for this purpose and from the last two billion, 400 million. We have, despite Cassandra, the regime for the hundred instalments, which was entirely beneficial to hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and households, but also to the public fund. With this regulation - which we have imposed on creditors, it was a unilateral action at that time - we have so far received more than EUR 1.2 billion. Additional resources are released through direct and indirect debt reductions. The agreement ensured, as I said before, partial debt restructuring at a loan rate of 1.3 and cover our needs by 2019. The average growth in loans over thirty-three years has increased and their cost of servicing has decreased. And now the problem has been identified since 1922, and after that the discussion on the necessary write-downs of debt, which will begin on the basis of the agreement immediately after the first assessment, will begin. This new prospects of sustainability and debt service, combined with the successful recapitalisation of banks, as well as the country's subsequent upgrades from international houses, will also open the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme for Greece from the new year, thus reducing the cost of finding funds for Greek banks. So the necessary climate of confidence is gradually being created for the return of Greek deposits and the self-powered credit expansion of banks to the Greek companies, which have been afflicted, is the truth, but they have endured the high borrowing costs over the years. We want all of this to be set up in the national production reconstruction plan, which we will be presenting after a wide debate next March. With the creation of a development bank, the upgrading of the role of cooperative banks and the introduction of new financial instruments, the strategic planning for the new, innovative and fair productive model that we want to build will be financed. In cooperation with the European Investment Bank, the best techniques for integrating major projects into the Juncker plan are considered to be to attract private capital. Thirteen new business support programmes from the ESRB are launched in 2016. EUR 280 million is planned for interconnecting research and entrepreneurship, while immediately, by the end of December, the operational programme of the NSRP 2014 for newly ingenious entrepreneurship will be launched. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last period, it is clear that almost nothing of what I said before is not reproduced in the media, almost anything I said before on a daily basis. What is the subject of discussion? Suddenly, some have discovered in the last two months that there have been tax-payers, a tax storm, a cruel and shameful -- what did some people call it? - "lovely, reprehensible and shameful memorandum", while all the previous memoranda were the best the place had ever met.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u539	You said that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u540	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u541	Of course, not all of this is random. It is not by chance, because nowadays we are setting up a revelation scene, we would say, both for taxation and insurance. It would be funny, in fact, if it were not the same political forces that slowed down this catastrophe, for the same political forces that over the past few years, especially for insurance, have voted for eleven different pension reductions in the last five years, the PSI, which has left the reserves of the insurance funds by EUR 15 billion, and it is not the same political forces that have been trying to fight for a long time and have given a great deal of negotiation, not those who have been calling us because we do not sign up for what the lenders have given us, were not the ones who campaigned for a big campaign for 'yes', which was 'yes' in the proposal of the institutions that provided for worse measures without money, horizontal cuts, immediate abolition of the CSCE, without equivalent deficit clause. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at things calmly. We all know - and most importantly everyone in this House should have known - that this agreement includes the obligation to reduce pension costs by 1% of GDP. It does not include a reduction in expenditure with horizontal cuts. This is a matter for codecision after negotiating with the institutions. Here too, we must stress that most of this savings have already been achieved by the abolition of early retirement, i.e. about 0.6% of the 1%. So what's left of it? About 600 million euros. And we say that 0.4% of these are ways of finding a way of getting socially, without any new painful pension cuts. We asked last week, last Saturday, at the meeting of the political leaders, for the opposition parties to consent to this planning. We did not ask for any support or much more participation in the government, as various paradoxes of power fantasy that lose the land under their feet and seek a board of salvation to universal governments. We asked for a national red line to the creditors. We have called for the national red line to be not new painful pension cuts, to find these 600 million in another way. And you refused.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u542	Did we say cut the pensions? Don't cut them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u543	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u544	If you do not refuse, there is still time to agree with us that pensions should not be reduced again. [[Applause]] You refused, in fact, to reach the ultimate limit of micro-political feasibility. You avoided-- he says-- the trap I set you up. Listen to an argument now! In other words, you prefer that the people should fall into the trap, that the retired 'in the pit with lions' should not tell you that you have fallen into the trap that I set you up. [[Applause]] This is the sense of responsibility that holds you. But be careful. This is not how the government is exposed. This is not how we are exposed, but you are being exposed and irreparably, because the Greek people do not eat grass. It came, ladies and gentlemen - listen to this, it is interesting, I do not know if you were taken away - your representative, Mr Plakatakis, at the meeting of the Heads of State or Government and said not much or much that last year our insurance system was sustainable and became unsustainable in the ten months that SYRIZA came! Forty years you had a sustainable insurance system and we did it! Well, these aren't even the little kids who can't tell. [[Applause]] All right, well, you don't want to fight with us in negotiation with the lenders. But saying forty years everything went well and we broke it in a year, it's a lot. We don't even have a year. So we will defend them, ladies and gentlemen, the pensions and defend them ourselves. You know, it's not the first time. I remind you of the last year in all the critical tests we've been alone. Not on our own, but on the Greek people supporting us in three answerable elections. Three elections, you lost your mind. You didn't put your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u545	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u546	And we will defend them with the people and society and against a political system that loses credibility, but also with a bankrupt regime, you know, against a regime that has chosen once again not to contribute to the national effort to get out of the crisis with society upright in order to hurt the government. But that's not the point. The point is, you don't think to put a mind on it. Seven months a day you were expecting "today they are falling, tomorrow they are falling". When the referendum came, you gave your change and the system that supports you, but you lost your celebrity. Everyone in front of us and you've lost your homework! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Then the elections came, the first time that the Greek people have been invited to vote in the last five years knowing the agreement not in other words to be loved, not with other promises, but knowing the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u547	Does the people agree? Does he like the people?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u548	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u549	And you're lost again, Mrs. Vuldesis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u550	Be quiet, and don't be vain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u551	Now it has not been two and a half months since the election result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u552	I'm sick of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u553	Don't get bored, Mrs. Vulture, it's a 1,000-hour time. Quiet. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please from all the wings quietly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u554	I see you don't have a brain. Go back to sleep and wake up with "today you fall, tomorrow you fall" but it's been four years, you'll get tired! And you know what, you'll step on it, as the proverb says with the wolf and the sheep. At a time when the wolf comes, the people won't believe you anymore. Four years is a lot to get that anxiety and you'll get tired. So I invite you to assist in the national effort...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u555	We're not helping!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u556	Instead of trying with communal terrain to prove that SYRIZA is the fault of everything, and Annell is the fault of everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u557	What do you want from us if you can do it yourself? Why would you please ask us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u558	Ladies and gentlemen, we will deal with this historic loose end. We will undertake to remove chestnuts from the fire, but at the same time, by fighting to defend the Greek people's right to live with dignity. You know, our aim is not only to get the country out of the crisis, but also to restore the credibility of politics, to create conditions for the radical transformation of the Greek economy, and we believe that we can achieve it, to lay the foundations for a great change, for a change that is more mature today, but also more necessary than ever in Europe of crisis and destabilisation. With firm steps, with a commitment to the objective, with full awareness of the difficulties, but also with determination, we will move forward with a weapon of our values and solidarity, with the pessimism of our minds, but with the optimism of the will, to remember a great theoretical, with society on our side, even when the most simply do not want understanding, we will fight, clash, bleed, but we will succeed. Justice, social cohesion, national and popular sovereignty will soon return to this place. We're going to get out of the crisis with society standing up and, if necessary, we're going to get back together again! We know how to do it and succeed ourselves when our people support!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u559	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u560	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u561	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u562	Mr President, allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u563	The debate is closed, Mr Plakkatakis. Please don't embarrass me. You know that, at the end of the speech of the Prime Minister, there is no debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u564	Mr President, that is not right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u565	He mentioned himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u566	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u567	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u568	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the State Budget for the financial year 2016 has come to an end. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 513-516]] Apart from the eight general and fourteen special rapporteurs, seventy-two colleagues spoke. The Deputy Prime Minister, twelve Ministers, nine Deputy Ministers and seven Deputy Ministers, also spoke. The debate on the State Budget for the financial year 2016 is adjourned and we will proceed to the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Rule 123(6), the budget shall be voted on by roll-call vote, both at the same time and with separate lists and voters, for the revenue and expenditure of each Ministry. As is well known, all ministries only have costs, except the Ministry of Finance, which also has revenues with the budget. Therefore, a special vote will be taken on the revenues of the budget, and for all the Ministries a vote will be taken on their expenses. A separate vote will also be taken on the expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic. The state budget also includes the budget of Parliament, which will not be taken into account again in this House, since the Parliament's budget, as approved by the House at the KZ/18-11-2015, is, under the Rules of Procedure, enforceable and has been registered without any change in the general budget of the State, Rule 120(6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. As mentioned above, the roll-call vote will take place, as imposed by the Rules of Procedure, at the same time. In other words, when Members are speaking on the list of Members, the voters appointed for the expenses of each Ministry, the expenses of the Presidency of the Republic and the revenue of the budget will take note of the vote given by each Member on the separate list of the Ministry for which they were designated. Those who accept the revenues of the budget, as well as the expenses of each of the Ministry and of the Presidency of the Republic, say "NEI". Those who do not accept them say 'OH.' Those who want to answer "NAI" for some ministries or "NOI" respectively clarify it in the language of their name. I would like to inform you that faxs (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which state their vote on the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Members of Parliament, Mr Anastasia Gara, from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, from New Democracy, will be invited to join the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask colleagues in the first six rows to give their seats to the voters. Please come to the voters: A) For budgetary revenue, Mr Dimitrios Vettas and Mr Emmanuel Konsolas. B) For the expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic, Mr Santer, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, Mr Clinton Davis, For the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, etc. Agriculture Generation and Mr. Christos Kelles. For the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr. Ioannis Giolas and Mr. Yoyakas. For the Ministry of National Defence, Mr. Marios Katsis and George Georgantas. For the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Asterios Kastoris and Stergios Giannakis. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, ladies Zoe Lebanese and Anna Karamanlis. For the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, etc. Constantine Morfidis and Georgia Martinou. For the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Themistollis Mumulides and Konstantinos Karamanlis. For the Ministry of Health, etc. George Ursouzidis and Victory Kerameos. For the Ministry of Culture and Sport, Mr. George Pallis and Apostolos Vesiropoulos. For the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Andreas Risoulis and Andreas Katsaniotis. For the Ministry of Environment and Energy, etc. Deektarios Santorinios and Maria Antonios. For the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis and Dimitrios Kyriazides. For the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Panos Skourikos and Christos Dimas. For the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, etc. Olympia Tyloridou and George Kasapides. Ladies and gentlemen, take note of this point. Keep in mind that by voting you will not leave because after the roll-call vote for the Ministries and the Presidency of the Republic, a vote will be followed by a vote on public investment budgets and budgets annexed to the budgets as well as on the regional services budgets referred to in Article 2 of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote begins. I would ask my fellow Members on the list to proceed with the explanation of the names of colleagues, and Mrs Anastasia Gara will repeat the "NAI" or "THEI" of all colleagues who vote. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u569	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u570	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos's letter to the Bureau, which informs us that he will not be present in today's roll-call vote and tells us that he is voting against the budget as a whole. Similarly, a letter from Mr Georgios Vagiona, who informs us that he will not be present in today's roll-call vote and informs us that he is voting against the budget as a whole. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u571	Ladies and gentlemen, the list is closed and the vote on the state budget and the budgets of certain special Funds and services for the financial year 2016 is hereby declared a final one. The main voters are asked to count the votes for the outcome of the vote and to sign the relevant protocols, which will receive service actors, so that we can then announce the result of the vote and be registered in the Minutes. [[COMMUNICATION]] In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, to shorten the sitting time, if you have no objection, I would ask that we proceed to the vote with a stop to the budget for public investment and attached budgets and for regional services. Does the House accept the budget for public investment and the annexed budgets for the financial year 2016? Please, those who accept to rise. [[Receivables]] Evidently, most of them rose in favour of acceptance. The House therefore admitted. [[After REMUNERATION]] Does the House also ask: Does it accept the regular budget for regional services for the financial year 2016? Please, those who accept to rise. Evidently, most of them rose in favour of acceptance. The House therefore admitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u572	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote in this House. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter the protocols on page 523.1-523.16]] A total of two hundred ninety-eight (298) MPs voted. Budget revenues were accepted at a hundred and fifty - three (153) MPs, and hundred and forty - five (145) MPs voted against them. [[Applause]] The costs of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Development and Tourism, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Culture and Sport, Economic, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Networks, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food have been accepted by a hundred and fifty-three (153) MPs, while a hundred forty-five (145) MPs voted against them. The costs of the Presidency of the Republic were accepted by hundreds of fifty-three (153) MPs, and hundreds of forty-five (145) MPs voted against them. The voting protocols are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u573	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘State Budget for the financial year 2016’ was accepted in a single debate under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u574	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget was closed with the vote which took place and the statement of the result. Please authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 1 December 2015, Wednesday 2 December 2015, Thursday 3 December 2015, Friday 4 December 2015 and Saturday 5 December 2015, including the discussion and vote of the budget for the financial year 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u575	The minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 1 December 2015, Wednesday 2 December 2015, Thursday 3 December 2015, Friday 4 December 2015 and Saturday 5 December 2015 were validated. Before we close to wishing the commemorators Nikolaus and Nikolettes "happy years and all happiness". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-05-S1-commons.u576	With the consent of the House at 1.45 minutes, the sitting on Monday, December 7, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a topical and urgent debate is closed.
